ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 152 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287(2), Rules of Procedure, at today's session, Members of Parliament have the right to request information or explanations. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The People's MP Lasslo Varga has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10514	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to request a notice from the Ministry of Justice and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office regarding the application of the Rehabilitation Act. Of these two authorities, because part of the record is run by the Justice Department, and part of the data I'm interested in has only the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office. In 2006, the old Rehabilitation Act was passed. Because of the many shortcomings that occurred in practice in 2011 a new law was adopted. The purpose of the new law was to work out the rehabilitation procedure, not to last for half a decade. The new law introduced the possibility of legal rehabilitation, including the prosecution in this process and many other newspapers. According to many information, there is one opposite trend in the desire for legislation, contrary to the fact that rehabilitation procedures have not been simplified but have become more complicated. That's why I'd like to request some information. All this data I want to refer only to the territory of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, so in the field of Vojvodina. I want to get information first of all on the application of the old Rehabilitation Act, so how many rehabilitation applications were filed under the old Law and for what number of persons? How many requests have been resolved? What is the number of rehabilitated ones, or what is the number of those that have been rejected? All based on the old Rehabilitation Act. As far as the new Rehabilitation Act is concerned, I would like to ask for information on how many rehabilitation requirements have been filed and for which number of persons and all of this relates to the territory of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. Furthermore, I am interested in the data - how much demand is filed under Article 5(2) of the Rehabilitation Act, i.e. how much requirement is required under Article 5(4). Rehabilitation law? That's two basics for legal rehabilitation. How many laws were filed for judicial rehabilitation? I'm also interested in how many cases have the senior public prosecutor's office disputed the demands, above all, regarding the legal rehabilitation procedures? How many cases were resolved in the first degree by higher courts, based on these provisions that I quoted? In how many cases have the senior public prosecutor's office filed complaints about first-degree rehabilitation decisions? This issue refers to the basics that I quoted, so on two grounds regarding legal rehabilitation and judicial rehabilitation. What is the number of cases legally solved? What is the number of legitimately rehabilitated persons? I am interested further – how many times have the senior public prosecutor's office taken advantage of the right to initiate rehabilitation procedures and have they had the opportunity to use in those cases where there has been a serious violation of the rule of law? I'm also interested in this – when will data be available on the Justice Department's website regarding the Rehabilitation Act, so regarding the submitted rehabilitation requirements, or decisions made? I'm interested in why it's not possible to monitor the course of cases relating to rehabilitation, since, in addition to investigative criminal proceedings, these are the only procedures that cannot be traced electronically? Finally, I would like to say that all these questions will be delivered to the National Assembly and written because it is extremely important that all these questions be formulated in the most precise way possible. I therefore ask the Service, or the President of the National Assembly, that I submit those questions to the Ministry of Justice, or the Republic of Public Prosecutor's Office, in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10515	The People's MP Olena Papuga has a word. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10516	Thank you. Dear President, fellow MPs, I'd like to ask you a question and ask the police department for information. (President: Excuse me, please, colleagues, please listen in peace.) I can barely hear what the MP is saying. I'm asking for information and information from the police minister, as well as from his resolute ministry. I'm interested in how much the police ministry deals with vandalism in the Republic of Serbia and how much it sanctions vandalism. In fact, there was an unfavorable case the night between Saturday and Sunday in a populated town called Bikic Do in the Shidh municipality, where half of the Russian population lives, the other half are mostly Serbs, Hungarians and other national communities. The event took place on the National Russian Day. In fact, members of the Russian national community attended a central celebration of their national day in Sremska Mitrovica that day. When they came back home, they were welcomed by torn tablets on their way in, where it says "welcome" to the Russian knights. The name of the inhabited place in Russian was also crossed down. The Russians usually write with Cyrillic, so I don't believe that someone was bothered that it was written with Cyrillic and the name of a populated place, but most likely bothered by a national community that has been living in that inhabited town for 250 years. I ask the question of the police minister and the police ministry – does it respond in such cases where it is obvious that international relations have been violated and when will it respond? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10517	MP Dubravka Filipovski has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10518	I have a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia to inform this house of the steps it took in talks with the international community, that the international community should stop Albanian extremists in Kosovo and Metohija who on the night between January 20th and 21st have destroyed over 50 tombstones in Kosovo and Metohija. The fact is that any crime that is not punishable, it is unfortunately repeated and I believe that the government of the Republic of Serbia should appeal to UNPROFOR I KFOR, to representatives of the international community -- which is the limit to which it can be endured and where it is underlining the line to stop Albanian extremists at the moment when Serbia gets international credibility due to negotiations with so-called. institutions in Pristina? The second question is also for the government of the Republic of Serbia to take advantage of this favourable moment and not to allow representatives of the so-called. Pristina institutions in any way link Kosovo's north to Presevo and Bujanovac. I would like to commend the Government of the Republic of Serbia for making the right decision and applying the law when it removed the monument in Presevo and I believe that these steps should be notified to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, so that this House is familiar with both the appeal and the international activity of our government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10519	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10520	Presidential, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question, would I say it very simply - why does the government think one thing and say the other and not do anything at all? Or should I try to translate that into Serbian -- who is cheating on us at the moment, the Minister of Energy or the Minister of Mining? The Minister of Energy is here today, so he may be able to convince us that she is right, Minister Bačević, as far as I know, is pushing the first pick for the future channel Morava – Vardar – Thessaloniki. So these days the public is covered with these stories, spins, whatever you want, about unity or disunity in the ruling coalition, but again on some sort of, as is usually said in celestial themes. At the same time, there is a serious war under the public radar not in the ruling coalition, but within the framework of the largest ruling SNS party. I'll show you on the case. This year, on January 15th, Mrs. Mihajlovic said that the Russian gas import price in the conversation with his Excellency, the Ambassador of the Russian Federation in Belgrade, if I understand correctly, is too high, the minister was present and did not want to be an economist, but a politician in those talks, so she said - given the brotherly relations between our countries and the difficult social situation in Serbia. I don't think the price of Russian gas is too high for that, I think it's too high because we pay it more than someone else pays, and we're both on the market and we're trying to close some arrangement. Just three days later, Minister Milan Bacevic, a senior official of the same SNS, says Minister Mihajlovic is wrong and we pay gas cheaper than other countries, on average $20 to $30 cheaper per thousand cubic metres of Russian gas. In order for citizens to figure out what the figures are, the job of importing Russian gas is at an annual level worth more than a billion dollars. Since you have thrown money out of political life in Serbia as a measuring unit and you speak only in these symbolic things of yours, it is more than four famous Emiratesi investments. The job is worth more than a billion dollars a year. For five years, LDP has been fighting to determine why we pay gas so expensively and who annually damages citizens and the economy of Serbia for several tens of millions of dollars. When Minister Bacevic is so easy to figure out, he says -- 20 to 30 dollars cheaper, only to the $10 difference, between $20 and $30 a year's damage to Serbian citizens is 20m euros. If we pay 50 dollars more than the price we could otherwise get, the annual damage is 100 million dollars. Are these price differences just due to ignorance, inexperience, condescending relations with Russia, or is there a crime involved? That's my key question for the government's representatives. Of course, I cannot limit my question just to the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Mining, Prime Minister Dacic, first Deputy Prime Minister Vukic, cannot stay away from this issue and choose topics that may be more attractive to them. Because it is in the job description of both the prime minister and the first deputy prime minister of the government and the minister of the MUP, which is Dacic and the vice president of the government in charge of the fight against crime, which is obviously Vukic, to give answers to questions – what is so controversial and why do we have a conflict in the ruling party itself over a billion dollar-a-year job? At this point, it is an issue that is important for every citizen of Serbia because of the overpriced price of gas, due to enormous losses which, due to the price difference, are "Srbigas", due to a whole series of problems that exist in these businesses. This isn't a question for the Serbian administration or any other company. In order not to remain only on this kind of issue, the LDP will today, during the day, make an official request to the president to hold a "hiring" hearing in this House and for the minister and for the prime minister and for the first Deputy Prime Minister, where everyone under oath will give some statements and then, in the future, answer or prove to be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10521	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10522	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask the Ministry of Education whether it has any intention in the future to launch an initiative to resolve some dilemmas about the Cyrillic and Latin letters, as we see things happening in the last month that are not in the interest of the Serbs living in Vukovar, and I do not think it is in the interest to close a Cyrillic letter in Serbia. In Serbian, it speaks about 20 million people, Croats call that language Croatian, Bosniaks Bosnian, but not ambiguous that the entire national corps, and nearly half of it is out of Serbia, speaks the same language. If we could close the Serbian language in Cyrillic, then we would only impose a Cyrillic on Serbian citizens of whom a large number are used in Latin. If you can provide me with the conditions to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10523	I ask all my colleagues once again to make sure that the MP can bring out what he wants. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10524	Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic created a modern Serbian Latin, performed by adapting the Latin to the Serbian-language voice features and the rule of writing as spoken. He published it in his first Serbian Bucharest in Vienna in 1827. Here, let everyone know, those who are calling for a national identity that our Lj, Nj, Ć, J, Đ, Č, Ž, Ž and Š, because only in 1830, so three years later Ljudevit Guy tried to simplify the Croatian latin by introducing a wavy line so on. "Tilda," but he gave it up in 1836 and accepted Vuk's solutions. Djuro Danicic suggested that instead of DJ, the contemporary Latin is a contemporary Serbian letter because it was made exclusively according to its voice characteristics, as well as Cyrillic. A short time ago, a colleague of Olena Papuga spoke in her own way about this problem, and I believe that with one initiative and explanation and the people of Croatia, as it was possible in 1954 in Novi Sad, she would explain that the Cyrillic was their letter and that there was no need for them either as during Ante Pavelic, Adolf Hitler, Mary Teresa and the times when they tried to choke a letter in the wrong way, that the Polish truth, for example, is the Croatian oldest document written by the Croatian Cyrillic so-called. The one from 1250. So, I think the Ministry of Education could, in co-operation with its Croatian counterparts, find the best solution, which would be in the interest of Serbs living in Croatia, which would also be in the interest of all those who want to use the Latin in Serbia. I received information from one media media, i.e. I learned in the media, this is a second question, and I refer it to the Justice Ministry, that the European Commission has asked Serbia to provide an answer by September 1st and whether Serbia is ready to pass a law opening secret files. I would like Parliament to be informed of that. It would also be desirable to consult the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club on this issue, since you know that we are the only one in this term, that we are the only one in the last term, that since 2000, we have tried to put Parliament on the agenda for discussion and then the adoption of the law on opening the file. I think it's a matter in which all those in the previous period should be consulted. There's a few of them. The real experts participated in the drafting of a law that the SPO and DHSS wanted to put on the agenda several previous sessions in recent years, so I ask you, as Parliament's president, that as well as you as the most responsible for the adoption of this law in this House, inform or ask the Ministry of Justice to talk to parliamentary clubs to get to the best possible solution, so that the files are not opened in such a way that they are closed for all time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10525	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Slavica Saveljic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10526	Thank you. Honorable representatives of the government, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will refer the matter to the Minister of Justice. In fact, this parliament recently passed a Law on Amnesty for which we used different arguments when we adopted it. One of them was the fact that Serbian prisons are crowded, that in such conditions criminal policy does not give the expected results, that for some perpetrators of easier crimes, the social danger of staying in prison with multiple perpetrators is greater, and that such a way of taking care of people is very expensive for the Republic of Serbia's budget. On this occasion, we also received very exact data that the planned amnesty is possible in the Serbian budget to save 800 million dinars. On the other hand, for some time now, for the same reasons, and seeking to make the criminal policy very effective, to our extent they also carry out alternative measures and sanctions so that convicted persons who are more adequately re-orientated and put into office communities primarily through socially beneficial work, again in order to close the gap, and on the other hand not to burden the budget. My question concerns one obviously under-controlled area. In fact, while we are passing laws to release those who are estimated to be celibate amnesty, on the other hand, in Serbia there are completely conflicting processes, and citizens are arrested and detained for up to 30 days without real evidence, on a variety of suspicions, and after that, they are often exposed to various self-wills that are being held behind the law's cloak. One of the obvious examples is the arrest of the two party officials Together for Šumadija – Kragujevac. The state of this kind of process has enormous damage, and according to lawsuits, it has to punish citizens for unlawfully deprive them of their freedom. Does the Department of Justice have any information on how many citizens and how many days have he spent in custody without their guilt being confirmed and how much money we owe as a budget to provide for such damages? What can be done against official state services and responsible persons who initiate such processes, do damage to the state and continue to work in their places and to new opportunities to act in the same way? Is this the unconscious spending of budget funds, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10527	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10528	Dear People's MPs, Parliament Speaker, last week, on January 17th, the final round of talks by Serbian Prime Minister and Prime Minister so-called. the countries of Kosovo. The public learned about it from a statement by participants in the conversation, Ivica Dacic and Hashim Thaci, from a statement coming from Cabin Catherine Ashton, a person who intervened in the talks. There was also a public discussion about it, and everyone could call on what he was pleased with, that he said and that he allegedly agreed in Brussels. So both Belgrade president and Pristina president did so. The main question is whether the government will ensure that, immediately after these talks, the public is informed of what has been discussed and what results have been achieved. That way, at least a misunderstanding can be avoided in a public conversation about these things. At the end of the line, if these statements are carefully observed, it turns out that Dacic and Thaci still agreed on a few things. First around the border. It is further strengthened by the agreement of the alleged tax regime, i.e. The VAT and some other tax duties on goods leaving Serbia in the province of Kosovo, at least in this northern part of Kosovo. We have a reaction from Serbs from Kosovo from yesterday's meeting of the council of four municipalities in northern Kosovo, where they have clearly and Decededibly said they do not accept it. For them, this arrangement, which involves a certain fund, a certain bank, and then a distribution under some three-way arrangement, etc., does not apply. They do not accept it for the simple reason that it strengthens and legitimises, to the shame of Serbia, the border between Serbia and Kosovo. That's quite clear. Another thing that could be seen from Dacic and Thaci's talks is that the open issue is the state of Serbia's institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. In particular, in northern Kosovo and Metohija. It's the first creature Thaci's eloquent statement after that conversation. He said, "We start talking about institutions." Of course, he means the institutions of Kosovo in the north. Dacic responded that the institutions should be Serbian, not Serbia, and thus would better protect the interests of Serbs in northern Kosovo. It is said, however, that they have agreed on some things, which is perhaps the most important thing at the moment, to demonstrate the current institutions of the Serbian state in Kosovo and to establish others instead, most likely according to the Martti Ahtisaari plan. I said at the beginning that the only thing that looked like a document from that meeting was a statement from Katherine Ashton's office. The statement makes it clear that the EU has no obligation towards a resolution adopted by the Serbian Parliament the other day, that the EU is obliged only to conclude a meeting of the European Council on 15 December last year. If you read that conclusion, it will be quite clear to you that it says that the main thing that must now be achieved in the next talks is the abolition of Serbia's institutions in Kosovo. It will also be held by this impartial mediator in this conversation between Thaci and Dacic, Catherine Ashton and her team. These are all disastrous results, but first of all we have to be informed about what's going on and that's my question. I'm just gonna start one more thing, since I've got a little time left. Today, the remains of the last king of Yugoslavia and Serbia, Peter II Karadjordjevic, are being transferred. It is not clear whether it is a private activity of a family or whether it is a state activity. According to what the press sees, it's a private matter of the family. So they're transferring their member to their tomb and the state with it doesn't have much in common, except that the media is following it as one curiosity. That's not how it's supposed to be. Karadjordjevic's dynasty is one of the two people's dynasties of Serbia, a state that in the 19th century had its own dynasties, not others, like most European states. You should both have a proper attitude toward the dynasty and your past. These are the occasions when the state must show its seriousness, to show that it respects its tradition and itself as a centuries-old state on this earth and as a people who have built their own country, with their own torment and with their own hands through the centuries. So the state here must be included in a full way and properly mark not only this date today, but what follows with regard to these unfortunate events in our history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10529	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10530	Thank you, Mr. President. Today Minister Bacevic is in China and we from the DS are asking the next question – what will happen to this country if he is successful? We hear he wants to owe the Republic of Serbia an additional $12 billion to build a channel to Thessaloniki. This government has put us in charge of more than two billion euros in just six months of her work. According to the budget adopted here, not with our votes, you have foreseen an additional 4.5 billion euros. So by the end of the year, we can see that Serbia owes five billion euros. That's more than half of our economy, extra credit. The Democratic Party is asking the government and the Prime Minister to report urgently, because we no longer want to listen to the empty stories of the finance and business minister, to explain to us what Serbia is in charge of, what this will have to do with the effects and whether we will be able to repay such debts at all. The economy is still falling, the situation is serious and these unrealistic projects must be stopped at all costs. This is the government where the finance minister signs an agreement on responsibilities with the Russian Federation of $800m and then after returning to Belgrade, questions what he himself signed. We hear they're going to ask the government to come forward again on some issues. It's not serious. The Russian Federation is a serious state. What happens if the minister assigns Serbia $12 billion, does that mean we'll have to get out of some arrangement that someone signed on our behalf again tomorrow? Russia and China are serious countries, they are part of our economic and state future and it is unacceptable to play with the Republic of Serbia's reputation on the big world stage. In addition, it poses a serious danger to our country's economic future. We ask the Prime Minister to come as soon as possible and tell us what's going on and that our citizens know if tomorrow they will enter into debt slavery? I also want to ask the government, what will they do to make the minister of justice responsible for what he's done in recent months? This joins the appeal of the civil sector and all those political forces, which say it is not worthy of the Republic of Serbia to have a justice minister defiling with extremist organisations outside this house. This house defends not only legality, but constitutionality. The "face" is a forbidden organisation, the Constitutional Court has banned, and we have a minister of justice defiling in front of this house, which should defend the Constitution, with a constitutionally forbidden organisation. What about his performance on Sunday, in "The Imprint of the Week," where he said that not only would tongues be torn, but heads would fly to members of the civil sector. He spoke of it as something that was quite acceptable, but the minister of justice who listened, i.e. A member of "Our" said that, didn't get a counter from the minister of justice. The minister of justice is not just a representative of some political option, he is not just defending certain ideology. From the moment he becomes Minister of the Republic of Serbia, he must defend legality and must ensure the security of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On Sunday, Justice Minister Selakovic refused to do so in the most spectacular way. He did not protect civil sector members, did not protect the legal and constitutional rights of all citizens by listening to members of an organisation, which some members of his party also say now has new elements that could be banned by the Constitutional Court. That is why the DS is asking the Prime Minister to seek the responsibility of the minister of justice for his scandalous behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10531	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10532	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the previous term, I have repeatedly asked questions about the operation of the Darko Saric drug clan in Serbia, money laundering, various privatisations, land purchases, investment in construction, and I must say that I have asked at least five questions concerning the topic, and I never, ever, repeat again, ever since the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, to whom I referred the question, have not received a single answer. However, such things can never be stopped, so today we have a situation to find out that the money is already being investigated in the Netherlands, about how about 100m euros were invested in some construction projects, primarily Belville of that money. We've spoken multiple times, I've asked a question for privatisation, let's say Belgrade IKL firms, by the time they got here, what happened in the investigation? No one answered those questions either. The purchase of land, we came up with frantic data that at one point through the purchase of land, that clan owned 10% of the territory of Vojvodina. It is more than 10% farmland, through privatisation of various agricultural combinations or direct purchase of land. All of this happened between 2008 and 2010. I never even got an answer to those questions. I was asking questions about who funded, who made it possible, who gave bank guarantees, who even gave out some loans? I've been connecting, I've spoken with argument about what the Metals Bank was doing, and I've even mentioned names. I never got an answer. In the end, the "Metals Bank" loved you, in my opinion, the worst and most irresponsible government in Serbia's history, became the "Vojvodine Development Bank". At the time, I said that all this was impossible, and now we see that it was a figure of about two billion euros, which was washed through such systems in Serbia and in this way, something could not have been done without a political umbrella. So, without some in the Serbian state system, and part of Serbia's system is also the administration of the AP Vojvodina, that without some involved, it would absolutely not be possible to do all this. Today we have examples of criticism for some investments. In particular, for the investment of the United Arab Emirates, related to the purchase of certain agricultural combinations, land, etc. Now all of a sudden, someone in the AP Vojvodina remembered that, for example, it protects the steam. Where were they when they sold the land to the Darko Saric clan? Who then protected whom in the country of Serbia? At that time, the same companies were bought for much less money, but no one invested money in the bay systems or in the canals. Every serious economist in the country of Serbia knows that what the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing is needed, saving, fighting crime and corruption, more serious monetary policy management, more serious reporting, etc. Any more serious economist knows that Serbia can move economically and that only new investments can be better. As a result, strange issues like this are related to investments from the United Arab Emirates. All investments should be supported if they work for the benefit of our citizens, especially those related to infrastructure, agriculture and IT technology, since we can develop these areas as quickly as possible. My question can be addressed to the entire government but I will ask it to the Prime Minister and Home Secretary, Mr Dacic - when and will it increase, speed up investigations into money laundering, privatisation, land purchases, construction, co-operation with banks in Serbia and everything else that Darko Saric did? (President: Time. ( ) My question is, will this be accelerated and when will we have the indictments?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10533	I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milos Aligrudic, Natasa Vukkovic and Vesna Marjanovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to review the proposals for acts on the agenda set out in the Request of the 138th National MPs to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby inform that I am next to the representatives of the motion: Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment, Prof. Dr. Milan Bačević, Minister of Natural Resources, Mining and Spatial Planning and Prof. Dr. Slavica Djukić Dejanović, Minister of Health, called for the sittings to attend and: Danilo Golubović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Dr. Srdjan Belij, State Secretary at the Ministry of Natural Resources, Mining and Spatial Planning, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Đukić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Miloš Milovanovic, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water, Mr. Ivan Zivkov, Head of the Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Agriculture and Water Management of the Ministry of the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013, which was called upon by the request of 138 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3) of the Rules of Procedure. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the Second Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, the following is defined: Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law on state ownership and registration of a vessel submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Marks Act, which was submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Consular Convention between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, which was submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Special Administrative Region of Macao of the People's Republic of China on the mutual abolition of visas submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on the conduct of paid tasks of members of the family of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff of their diplomatic and consular representations, which the Government has submitted; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Namibia on co-operation in the area of defence, which was submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, which was submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on the Protection and Sustainable Use of Biological and Predetermined Variety under the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Use of Karpat adopted in Kiev on 22 May 2003, which was submitted by the Government; 13. Proposal for a law confirming the 1992 Protocol on Water and Health with the 1992 Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes, which was submitted by the Government; 14. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Member States of the South-Eastern European Health Network on an arrangement with the host country on the seat of the South-Eastern European Health Network Secretariat, which was submitted by the Government; 15. Proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the Procedural Law on Maintenance Obligations, submitted by the Government; 16. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law confirming the International Maritime Labour Organisation Convention, 2006, which was submitted by the Government; 17. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Restriction of Liability for Maritime Applications and the 1996 Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the Restriction of Liability for Maritime Claims, submitted by the Government; 18. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on road transport of passengers and things submitted by the Government; 19. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on international road traffic, which was submitted by the Government; 20. A bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of air traffic between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro, which was submitted by the government. National MP Meho Omerovic, based on Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and 170. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have proposed to carry out: 1st Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Protection, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Sustainable Use of Biological and Health by the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Use of Karpat adopted in Kiev on 22 May 2003, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Water and Health with the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes of 1992 and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Member States of the South East European Health Network on the Arrangement with the Land of the Sea of Europe as the First World Health Principles of Europe, to the United Nations of Europe as a Single Network of Europe. 2. Joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a law on state ownership and entry of a vessel, Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the verification of the International Labour Organisation Convention on the work of seafarers, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the responsibilities for maritime claims and the 1996 Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the responsibilities for maritime claims, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on Road Transport of Travel and Things, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro on International Road Traffic and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation in the field of air traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro. 3. Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Consulate Convention between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Special Administrative Region Macao of the People's Republic of China on the Interrelation of Visas, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on the supply of paid jobs by members of the family of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff of their diplomatic and consular representativeships, Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Namibia on Co-operation in the area of defence and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Commodative Law on Obligations of Maintenance Obligations. Does MP Meho Omerovic want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we move to a decision, let us establish a quorum, since at least 126 MPs are required to decide. Since we have the quorum, I ask the MPs to make a statement about the proposal of MP Meha Omerovic. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, no one, with abstentions, voted 25 MPs out of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. Consensually Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principled single search on proposals for the law of the agenda under points 1. 3, 11, 12, 13 and 14, and before the search opens, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is 5 hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Details of the time for each MP's group you've received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle and uniform review on the Proposal for a Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Air Protection, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Protection and Sustainable Use of Biological Areas of Variety with the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, adopted in Kiev on 22 May 2003, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Water and Health with the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes and Amendments on Art. 25 and 26 of the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Member States of the South-Eastern European Health Network on an arrangement with the host country on the headquarters of the South-Eastern European Health Network Secretariat. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10534	President-in-Office of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I will talk about the law on incentives in agricultural and rural development. Agriculture participates with 11% of agrobusiness over 20% of Serbia's GDP. There are rare economic branches, such as agriculture, which have achieved a positive balance in the external trade exchange since 2005, with Serbia's most significant foreign trade partners, such as the EU and CEFTA countries. Last year, the surplus amounted to 1.2 billion euros, although the structure of exports can and must be much better, as Serbia continues to export multiple smaller agricultural products per hectare than EU countries. Since the prime minister's exposé, when the current government was formed, it has been clear that agriculture is one of the priorities of the government. In line with this definition, the Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Forestry set itself three roof targets in the four-year term of the government. The first is to continuously increase the agrarian budget to reach at least 5% of the total budget in 2014. The second is to find strategic partners to realise investment, because without investments, there is no development, no progress. The third roof goal is to ensure clear conditions and predictability for agricultural producers, so that they can better plan their productions to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture. The first goal – the larger agrarian budget, is already being achieved in 2012, through budget rebalancing, helping farmers after a catastrophic drought. The budget for 2013 provides for an even 40% higher budget, so that the agricultural budget in 2013 should be around 46 billion dinars, or 4.5% of the total budget, which shows that we are on track to achieve our roof goal, that in 2014, we have an agricultural budget of 5% of the national budget. When I say agrarian budget, I only mean direct payments in agriculture, rural development and investment, and not everything that follows – wages, material costs and everything else. The second objective – capital investments cannot be planned quickly or implemented because there are not enough resources in the national budget for them. It is necessary to look for strategic partners on the other side, above all, abroad. Certain results have been achieved in this field for the past half of the year. At the Novi Sad Fair, we need to sign a contract with the Kuwait Development Fund, and as you are informed, the Interstate Agreement between Serbia and the UAE will soon be signed, where we expect large funds to be used, above all, for reconstruction and construction of the bay systems, for the purchase of rock heifers, for the construction of large fruit and vegetable warehouses. But then, when these investments come to order. The third priority of a ministry whose head I am is to create a better environment for agricultural production. This better environment means that anyone who wants to deal with agriculture must know in advance what they can expect from the state, over a long period of time. In such an environment, it is easier for each agricultural producer to assess whether or not a particular type of production is paid. There has never been such an ambience before. From year to year, he was wandering around with different kinds of incentives. There was no law that accurately defined the area, so the government was going to adopt more than 40 regulations a year concerning incentives in agriculture. You must admit that neither the lawyers nor the experts in those forests were able to cope easily, and especially when we talk about farmers, for whom we also have to admit that they are not a population that is often engaged in official messengers and who have legal advisers for certain areas, so it happened that farmers are late due to this lack of information with the exercise of their rights. Secondly, in a situation where incentives in agriculture are regulated by regulations, there is always an open question – are certain incentives adopted because of generalities, or because of interested individuals, groups or lobbys? It is, as you know, an actual affair about the supply of fertilisers, according to one of the regulations, and the basic issue of the whole case is – in whose interest and with what motives has this regulation been proposed and adopted? The government of the Republic of Serbia, by proposing this law, essentially reduces its role in creating agrarian policy and gives one system framework that applies to everyone in the country, including the state itself. This reduces the ability to put pressure on the government, to encourage regulations according to the wishes of certain individuals or stakeholders. The previous government knew to kneel under pressure and change the policy of incentives during the same production year, and we were witnesses in 2012. After the adoption of this law, it will no longer be possible. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the European Commission's 2012 Report on Serbia's progress, one of the serious remarks repeated year after year is exactly an unpredictable environment for agricultural production and the management of a "ad hoc" agricultural subsidy policy. This law removes that remark and introduces a subsidy system in the frameworks that all other developed countries have. As for certain concrete solutions in this law, I hope that during this assembly search we will include them all. I'd like to draw attention to a few things that we at the ministry consider extremely important and important. First, incentives are provided for both legal and physical persons. So, for farmers, and for cooperatives, and for businesses, religious communities, other organisations, if they are engaged in agricultural production and if they are registered in the Ministry of Agriculture. Incentives are intended equally for those who are the owners and who are the tenants of the country. In other words, anyone who wants to deal with agriculture can legally exercise the right to an incentive from the budget regardless of legal or ownership status. I am talking about the law, this law guarantees a minimum amount of incentives for each year, and the government will adopt and adopt maximum amounts of incentives every year depending on and after the adoption of the budget law. So, the amount the law mentions, for example. 6,000 dinars per hectare of wartime production or milk premiums of seven dinars per litre are legally guaranteed minima that neither the government can reduce, but can out of the blue if there are funds in the budget. Thirdly, what we find extremely important is that this law sets out its own support policies and rural development policies for the entire territory of RS, but also enables autonomous provinces and local self-governments to establish their own support measures in their own area through local strategies, insurance premium payments, storage regresses in public warehouses, regresses for reproductive material, credit policy, etc. The law left the Minister of Agriculture right only to prescribe to the rules the way and technique of the realization of incentives, and the conditions are defined by the law itself. It is also important to draw attention to the next paper passed by this law. Incentives from direct payments can generate a total amount of 10 million dinars. The amount of over 10 million dinars to 20 million dinars will be reduced by 5%, with more than 20 million being reduced by 10%. Also, the law also provides incentives for organic production, which will be increased by 40% compared to conventional production, regardless of whether it is a period of conversion or whether it is for those who already have certified herbal and livestock organic production. The law also provides for the possibility for milk premiums to increase for those producers producing extra class milk, which stimulates manufacturers to produce such milk, because according to data that we have only 35% of the milk produced in Serbia is an extra class and meets EU standards. A significant newspaper is what the law foresees and a whole range of incentives when it comes to rural development and opens up the possibility of the Ministry of Agriculture synergy with autonomous provinces and with local self-government implementing many projects. The draft of this law was carried out by a working group composed of representatives of several ministries with consultations with partners from the EU and representatives of relevant associations of agricultural producers. Before the draft law was adopted by the government, we held a public hearing of the law with all those interested in it. Discussions took place in Zrenjanin, Kragujevac, Chačka, Sombor, Trstenik, Valjev, Sjenica, Sremska Mitrovica, Bačka Palanca, Kralje, Vrnjačka Banja and Belgrade. Also, dozens of suggestions and suggestions have come to the Ministry's address and some have been included in the final version of this law. One of the suggestions accepted is that incentives are defined for wartime production on surfaces of up to 100 hectares, which is a kind of social correction of a completely liberal approach, and is in the interest of the market competitiveness of smaller agricultural producers. We also accepted that the text of the law lays down a provision for the agricultural budget to be at least 5% of the total state budget, with this provision in force since 2014, because, as you know, the Budget Act was passed before we came to this law. We also agreed to a suggestion on the expansion of the authority of autonomous provinces and local self-government. We accepted the suggestion to subsidize the production of fruit material. It is accepted to reduce the minimum quantity of milk as a condition to encourage the quarter from 3,000 to 1,500 liters in areas with difficult working conditions in agriculture, and to add support measures for the production of lambs in the promotion of livestock. We have also accepted, and it will be part of the law, amendments that talk about incentives for fishing and livestock. Honorable MPs, lawyers usually say that it is better to have any law than not to have it at all. If we go by that logic, just legal regulation of this area is already a big step forward, especially as it is a really good law before you. As I said, the primary intention of the Ministry of Agriculture is to create a predictable environment for agriculture production. In addition to this predictability, this law brings a number of other things, which are easier planning medium- and long-term investments, improving competitiveness, introducing a single record of incentives, better budget planning and compliance with EU rules. The overall objective of predictability of the agricultural production environment cannot be achieved only by this law because at least three more general acts need to be adopted, namely the agriculture and rural development strategy of the RS, the national programme for agriculture and the national rural development programme. These general planning documents were to be adopted by the Rural Development Law by the previous government in 2010, but did not do so for unknown reasons. Whether it's out of interest or some other stuff, it's completely irrelevant. During this year, we will adopt a strategy for agriculture and rural development and thus create a stable and predictable framework for long-term agricultural production in this country. Thank you. For now, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10535	Before we continue to work, let us do one administrative thing that will allow the National Assembly to work fully. You have received the resignations of MPs Milan Markovic, Janko Radaković and Aleksandra Jerkov as MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering these paragraphs, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of these Members of Parliaments. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, finds that the mandate ended before the end of the time on which the MPs Milan Markovic, Janko Radakovic and Aleksandra Jerkov were elected on the day of their resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the vacancy of seats in the National Assembly will be filled. We're going back to work. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10536	Article 128(2) At least a dozen SNS MP cards have been inserted at the moment. This is particularly scandalous because two ministers from the government are here, so if MPs of the ruling coalition, above all SNS do not want to listen to their ministers at least learn that elemental rule. I can't believe seven months is a problem learning the rule. Free exit from the O.R. When he leaves the O.R., he takes the card and takes it with him. Please, Mr. Stefanovic, make sure this is respected in this House. We had a three-week break, and I expected at least three weeks from now, that simple shop to be subdued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10537	I ask the service of the National Assembly that the cards of the MPs who are not present in the hall be taken out and I ask the MPs that when they leave the hall they carry their cards with them. I think it's best not to have any kind of abuse. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10538	Dear MPs, you have before you an amendment to the Air Protection Act. It's a law that was passed in 2009. Considering that some legal bases have been overcome and that, apart from the 2001 EU directive, the Air Protection Act is in line with. Meanwhile, we also have new regulations on substances that damage the ozone layer. This is one of the basic reasons why we have made changes and additions to the Air Protection Act. I'll list just a few important things that represent changes and additions to the Air Protection Act. Of course, after that, I'm here to answer all your questions. What may be the first thing solved by Article 1, which is that the correction of the error in the year being taken as the reference year, was put in 2001, and it is necessary to comply with the directives in 1990. Among other things, this is one of the reasons why these changes and additions to the Air Protection Act were given by emergency procedure. It is a very important reference year for the adoption of a strategy on air protection. Unfortunately, Serbia still does not have a strategy on air protection. She was supposed to be finished last year. With these changes and air protection supplements, we had to change that date, which was in the strategy law. The second thing that's significant is the change of art. 2nd and 3rd. Here we have tried to ensure conditions for two new regulations to be adopted where a much more precise and clearer level of pollution will be determined from two types of plants. One is chemical plants, or stationary sources. There are other plants and combustion plants from the power plant. In addition, there was a kind of mistake in the law itself. In fact, the EU has previously set maximum emissions. It is clear that each country must determine maximum pollution emissions. That's what our country's gonna do. On this basis, a program will be developed to reduce these emissions over the next period. What I think is significant, and in law it was foreseen that it was the minister who laid down the regulation to deal with certain gases with the effect of the glass garden. Today, these amendments and additions to the law are arranged for the government to do so. I think it's much more transparent and better than in the previous period. Given the new directive, or regulation that has been adopted and related to floral gases, it has been expanded with gases that damage the ozone layer. What's likely to interest everyone, which is that the deadline that existed in the Air Protection Act, is to move from one-time tanks to multiple tanks. We had to remove this as a deadline, because our economy and our broadcasters are unable to respect such a deadline. We talked to them. We're not the only country, maybe we're one of the few countries that had such a deadline. Some other countries do not have such deadlines, or it is written that the moment they enter the EU they must switch from one-time to multiple tanks. The point of amending the Law on Air Protection is that we have a better environment, that we have better air and that we are fully in line with what is called the EU Directives. What I particularly stressed at the outset is important to us, because these changes and additions of the Air Protection Act allow us to complete the air protection strategy as soon as possible. The strategy for air protection is not just a matter of this ministry. There will be both energy and traffic and everything from which we have emissions of harmful gases. I think that's enough for now. I'm here to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10539	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10540	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I would like to make suggestions on the SVM's Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which is the first item of the agenda. The first thing I'm saying is we welcome the decision to make this law, because we know what's been going on over the past few years on subsidies. It is extremely important that we have legislation, not regulations, and that future agricultural producers know in advance what awaits them next year. It's important for them, because we know that in agriculture we have to plan, we need to know what we can count on and what incentives we can count on. I want to say a few positive things about this law. We from the SVM see ourselves as a constructive opposition, so that's why we constructively approach this bill. We are sure that the adoption of this law will create more favourable conditions for the planning of the budget necessary for the implementation of the agricultural policy measures in each budget period, and based on the more precise needs of end-users. We of the SVM believe that each invested dinar intended for agriculture is double-returned. In recent weeks, the SVM has been serious about this topic, and in the elections in our programme, the key point was to pass this law. We from SVM in November 2012 organised a public debate on this law. More than 30 agricultural organisations responded to the meeting, representatives of the profession were present, as were the leaders of some of the municipalities in charge of agriculture. The meeting praised that the state finally wants to shape a transparent policy of incentives in agriculture. On our part, we, constructively approach the draft law in this area, aim to help and encourage small and medium-sized agricultural land. It is positive that farmers had the opportunity to plead on this law, although not many proposals were adopted and there was no further consensus after the public debate. However, it is positive that the Ministry of Agriculture asked farmers what they wanted and that the interested parties had the opportunity to declare the draft law. This law implements the requirements of agricultural producers that exist for a number of years, which relate to the establishment of a system of long-term, predictable, consistent and transparent agricultural policies. It is strategically important that we have predictability in agricultural production. The law on incentives in agriculture and rural development will create a stable, long-term and predictable agricultural policy that will not often change. A step in the fairer distribution of the agrarian budget has been made by the fact that legal and natural persons are equally eligible for subsidies under this bill, as well as areas under orchards and vineyards that will also be taken into account in the exercise of the right to direct payments. A large number of participants in this meeting, which we organised, asked to increase the budget for agriculture, i.e. at least 5% of the national budget. It is of paramount importance that this proposal is accepted and entered into the text of the draft law. It is also good that specific incentives for organic production are provided, as well as that the Ministry of Subsidies will only divide up to 100 hectares. A large number of objections relate to the fact that agricultural pensioners have been over 65 years, are automatically classified as non-commercial land, and labour pensioners have the opportunity to choose. It is of paramount importance, given that it is an unfair treatment, which is respected and introduced in the draft law, so that each agricultural producer will be declared to do so at the time of registration. The AP and local self-government were requested to be able to establish other support measures for the implementation of the agricultural policy, not just for credit support. Initially, the draft law plans that these entities cannot implement price support measures, but only investment and credit. Given that it is the funds of the AP and local self-government that have income from the lease of state agricultural land, provided that the measures are in agreement with the agrarian policy of the state, the proposal has been accepted and partially incorporated into the proposed text. However, our parliamentary group with its amendments wants to expand this circle of incentives. I hope you'll have an understanding of that. It's positive that local self-government will be able to count on some incentives. It is also commendable that there will be public data on the type and height of incentives achieved per user of incentives. This bill proposes that, in addition to legal persons, monasteries, i.e. other church-legal persons, they have the right to exercise the right to subsidies, on the whole of their property. That's extremely positive. However, there is one question about this for you, Mr. Minister. I'm interested – can high schools, like legal persons, count on incentives? They're schools that have their own economies. For example, Bačka Topoli High School of Agriculture, which I also attended, has its own economy that owns 110 hectares of agricultural land. It would be extremely important for that high school to get some support. I'm interested, Mr. Minister, what can high-school agriculture schools count on under this bill? It's positive that he has credit support. Credit support is a type of incentive to facilitate access to credit and thus create more favourable access to sources of financial resources to improve agricultural production. It is also positive that there is support for the preparation and implementation of local rural development strategies, i.e. It is a type of incentive that contributes to local rural development actors to improve the potential of their local environments in the long term through the development and support of local sustainable rural development strategies. Of course, in addition to the positive things, we have some objections to the proposed law. We have submitted some amendments, and we have some questions for you, Mr. Minister. What we are not satisfied with is that the proposed text of the law does not fully contain solutions that could enable the province or local self-government to provide funds for the owners and that the incentive system will be centralised. The law states that the authorities of the autonomous province and units of local self-government can establish support measures for the implementation of agricultural policy and rural development policy for the territory of the autonomous province and local self-government unit, however, what creates the problem is that the support programme is brought by the competent authority of the autonomous province, i.e. the competent authority of the unit of local self-government, with the previous consent of the ministry. The question arises – what if local self-government and AP Vojvodina programmes are not given a green light from Belgrade? AP Vojvodina authorities, as well as numerous local self-governments, have different support programmes for agricultural producers who would like to continue for a further period. We therefore believe that in the future too, it should be possible for all competent authorities to do so, if they want to help farmers, both at the regional and local level. The problem is also that the minister will determine which are undeveloped areas, which, according to the incentive policy, have greater rights. The minister's discretion will depend on which municipalities will be designated as such. What does the law suggest? Areas with difficult working conditions in agriculture are areas where, due to natural, social or legal constraints, there are no conditions for the intensive development of agricultural production. The Minister responsible for Agriculture Affairs prescribes areas for a period of three years. It considers that the concept of an area with difficult working conditions in agriculture is not transparent and precise enough. Under undeveloped agricultural areas, according to current practice, areas from the centre and south of Serbia were most commonly understood, although such areas are also known to be in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Mr. Minister, of the 45 municipalities located in Vojvodina, only one or two municipalities were treated as underdeveloped in agricultural production. But, Mr. Minister, you know very well that the conditions are not the same in North-Bath and North-Banat County. I am interested – will you, in addition to the altitude of the sea, enter as a criterion the categories of agricultural land before deciding and what criteria will you have in this matter? It also creates a problem that, under the bill, the minister is given the opportunity to reduce incentives for agricultural land. What does the bill say? Depending on the resources available, prescribed by the budget law, the minister can limit the area for which basic incentives and incentives for plant production are made. We have suggested that these views be deleted from the law, so the minister's discretion is being denied to reduce the incentive. By adopting our amendment, farmers will have safe support through basic incentives and through incentives for plant production up to 100 hectares of agricultural land. The next topic we want to deal with is regression. In the case of regressions for the purchase of basic production instructions, such as seeds, fuel and fertilisers, this measure contributes to a reduction in the price of plant production for which incentives are intended to reduce the variable costs of the procurement of production instructions. Every year she was different about this. Once there were only regressions, last year only part of the subsidy was through regression. Under the draft law, regresses for fuel or fertilizer or seed are paid at a minimum total amount of 6,000 dinars per hectare for the same area for which the right to basic incentives has aged. However, because of the malfeasance with the accounts, as you said earlier, Mr. Minister, the regresses are not popular among agricultural producers. Each farmer is more suited to basic incentives instead of regressions. There was also malfeasance with the regression of mineral fertilizer. The public secret is that NIS gas stations can buy an oil bill. The problem is that fuel regresses can only be purchased at NIS pumps. Here is the problem distance NIS pumps from the populated place where the agricultural producer lives. For example, in the municipality where I come from, in Backo Topoli, that's a huge problem. Some manufacturers have to travel as many as 20 kilometers to the NIS pump. I'm interested – how are you going to divide these 6,000 dinars, will that be necessary and how many bills will it take for the farmer to hand over for the fuel, how much for the fertilizer, and how much for the seeds? For these reasons, I think we should increase basic incentives. We believe that the amount of subsidies per hectare itself is not high enough to encourage agricultural production effectively. According to the draft law, basic incentives are achieved on the surface of plant production at a minimum amount of 6,000 dinar per hectare. We find it extremely important that this law increases incentives per hectare. In our opinion, the funds for regressions should be reduced, while at the same time increasing the resources for the basic incentives that agricultural producers receive directly as subsidies. I'm interested, Mr. Minister, in the dynamics of paying subsidies. What can you say about that? What are the plans of the Ministry of Agriculture? It doesn't matter what date the Ministry of Agriculture will pay off the funds to farmers. The next problem is incentives in livestock. We're all talking about the importance of livestock. We know that cattle farmers are in an extremely difficult situation, so we are proposing an increase in funds for them. We suggest that the milk premium is at least 10 dinars and that incentives be given to anyone producing milk. Small agricultural holdings, e.g. they only have two cows, they can't automatically make milk premiums, because they can't produce at least 3,000 liters of milk per quarter. We feel that we should reduce that limit, not just for those territories where agricultural conditions are difficult. In 2012, the incentives for dairy cows amounted to 25,000 dinars. We believe that this amount must not be reduced, nor should we suggest that it be increased from 20,000 to 25,000 per head. There's another huge problem about cattle farming, and it's about selling big heroes and pigs. Incentives shall be realized if the seal throat intended for meat production is sold to the slaughterhouse or is intended for export. We suggest that cattlemen can achieve incentives even in those cases where they have not handed over the goods directly to the slaughterhouses, but have done so through the redeemers. So far, it's been a huge problem that a number of producers don't get a grant for that hero and that pig because they're even able to hand the goods directly over to the slaughterhouses. This problem is most affected by small and medium-sized agricultural producers. In practice, buyers buy cattle from the agricultural producer, so they hand the goods directly to the slaughterhouses and create incentives for the fat throat, not the producer who kept the cattle. I hope you've heard of this problem, Mr. Minister. Of course, we suggest that you give the incentives only in those cases where the cattle over the redeemer actually end up in a slaughterhouse. The next problem we want to solve is that it is not limited subsidy size and we want it to be limited. Under the draft law, the beneficiary of funds during the calendar year, on the basis of direct payments, except on the basis of credit support, can achieve a total amount of more than 20 million dinars. We believe that there is a need to limit the amount that ownership can get, and that's five million dinars. In fact, incentives greater than this amount do not lead to the equalisation of the match, but rather accelerate the strengthening of large agricultural producers, and the aim of this law should be to strengthen small and medium-sized agricultural holdings. The problem is that there are no concrete incentives for young producers. It is necessary to provide for incentives for young farmers staying in the country. Our proposal is to give special incentives to those young producers who want to deal with agriculture, which is what we have proposed through the amendment. I'm also interested in your position, Mr. Minister, on this matter, where there is room in the law for them. The Ministry of Agriculture did not provide for specific subsidies for machinery through the draft law. I'm interested, Your Honor, in what you're planning on doing about this problem since, as we know, the countries around here have been doing it for a number of years, for example. Hungary, where it's been done for more than 10 years. Speaking of machinery, just one question for you, Mr. Minister. Do you have information that agricultural producers are being punished by the traffic police for not registering connected machines, e.g. Like big plates and like presses? These plug-in machines have wheels, so according to the registration rule, they have to register. What's the problem? The problem is that farmers do not have all the documentation for these machines, and the problem is that these machines do not have air brakes, so they cannot register accordingly because they do not pass the technical examination. So, you can't register a plug-in machine if it's what the agricultural producer wants, and yet, the traffic police are punishing agricultural producers. Most objections to this usually come from North Banat County, so please check what can be done on this matter. Finally, I would like to point out once again that it is a good thing that there will finally be a secure subsidized system, which was a public debate, that the Ministry of Subsidisation will divide up to 100 hectares, that it is incorporated into the law a proposal that 5% of the total budget will be allocated to agriculture and that in the future, any agricultural land, whether it pays PIO or not, will count on subsidies per hectare. It is also extremely important that cooperatives, legal entities and religious communities will receive incentives to the agricultural land they possess. We have proposed to our amendments to extend the powers of the AP Vojvodina, i.e. local self-government, and that is of paramount importance. Of course, I believe that there is a need to increase incentives to strengthen our agricultural producers, small and medium-sized agricultural holdings, in order to be ready for a market match waiting for them in the EU. It's just some remarks, Mr. Minister, on the bill. I would like to say that the SVM parliamentary group, depending on whether or not we will be accepted the most important amendments, will decide whether or not we will support this law. We hope we'll be able to do that, since we held talks with you last week and hope to accept our amendment. As far as the proposal for a law confirming the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture is concerned, you can count on our support. Finally, I expect your answers to some questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10541	Thank you. National MP Olga Batic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10542	Dear President, ministers, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, above all, carefully studying the subject matter of this law, but also an explanation for its adoption by an urgent procedure I have two approaches which are fundamentally opposed, but in any case well-meaning. First of all, I have no dilemma that this law is necessary, as is the entire SPO and DHSS parliamentary group and that the effort has been made, and in that sense, all available capacity for the ministry to settle this area. I also have no doubt that it is better to adopt this text of the law with amendments that my MP group has submitted and some of the good other proposed amendments to other parliamentary groups, but not to have this law. As you yourself have stated, I am a lawyer, so that's exactly what I'm saying, that gives us the possibility that our peasant in the most positive meaning of that word, which should be the pillar of this society, finally gets something that belongs to him, and that's primarily legally regulated. Therefore, all praises regarding access and courage for the legal regulation of this matter. My second approach to the other side will be critical, yet well-intentioned. It refers to precision, it refers to selectivity, it refers to predictability of measures and effects and especially to control function, which I believe is not the happiest solution to precisely this proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. There was an opportunity to analyse everything well, there were opportunities to include some other services, such as the veterinary service, to conduct an even wider discussion than those carried out, to include some other cities, some other areas, other than those 10 to 15 that are seen and listed on page 15 and page 16 of the reasoning. When I say precision, I mean next. You yourself have stated that, until now, more than 40 regulations have been adopted annually, relating to fostering agriculture, rural development, which is certainly not good, because the question is also, I will try to interpret you, that from the incentives in agriculture, it is a question of whether interest has certain categories or have certain individuals. Just to put such precision in one law and get firm, then I can ask the next question. If the law, as this draft law has 52 members, involves the adoption of 15 sublegal acts, and this can be seen on page 17 of this proposal of the law, I believe that this is the absence of courage, perhaps somewhat of an idea, and perhaps the reality that the entire area is systematically regulated by only one law, rather than by sublegal acts which are subject to frequent changes and very often inapplicable in practice. When I talk about selectivity, you're e.g. in Article 17 of this Law, provide incentives for breeding sheep and goats, for these lambs, but not for that goat or goat. For consumers or lovers of these species of animals, it's really hard to distinguish between lambs or goats, even most people would want to eat goats, but there's no incentive for that kind of thing. If I try to ignore the precision or selectivity listed forward, and I don't think I can, then predictability of measures and effects, as well as control function certainly can't. For what reason? Here's why. You have defined incentives and regressions by this law for certain categories of animals. This is evident from Article 22, Articles 23, 24, 25, up to Article 29, and at a fixed dinar amount. I also have a few questions for you. First, what happens if the value of incentives and regressions, how will it be regulated if, for example, the euro is 120 dinars or 130 or 140 dinars? Did you foresee the possibility to force one type of production, e.g. The production of pigs, while neglecting others, e.g. The production of heroes? And my second question is, did you predict the cycle of production by animal categories? Have you provided sufficient resources for all incentives and for the regressions mentioned and covered by this bill? Did you predict the minimum and did you predict the maximum payment deadlines? Did you foresee a balance in payment and without the privilege of having someone get something right away, that someone waits and someone invests in production without ultimately getting neither incentives nor regressions? Did you predict, did you rule out the subjectivity of all those responsible who decide exactly on the payment of the regress or the payment of incentives? After all, what has particularly bothered me in this bill is why does the Director of the Agency for Agricultural Payments decide on the exercise of the right to incentives, as also seen in Article 7(3) of this law, and not you, as Minister of Agriculture? Then the question arises: isn't that where this man concentrates more power than you are, as someone who manages the competent resort and whose jurisdiction is the Ministry of Agriculture? What's most important and why I've submitted only two amendments, believe me, I've had the desire to endure a lot more, but these two I consider key, both to Article 15 and to Article 20 of this bill. This is primarily the control function and security of the state in the cost-effectiveness of milk premiums, it is an amendment to Article 15 and the legal use of incentives in livestock, an amendment that I have submitted to Article 20. I'll try to give you a picture. If you want to make a premium for a car or for a helmet insurance, that car has to pass a technical checkup, someone has to pay taxes, that someone is the owner, and then only they can be the correct or even better expression, applicable to this law, they have to be healthy. It's just "healthy" must primarily refer to animals. In order to obtain a premium, to obtain a regression, to achieve incentives, that means that anyone who wishes to exercise the right to premium or to encourage livestock must bear proof that he has carried out all preventive on his animals, which means that the animal has been completed, as well as all diagnostic tests, means that the animal is healthy, for many reasons: for this reason, for the sake of production, for milk, for reproduction, etc. All these measures are free of charge for the owners, all of them the state pays, there's a precise record at every veterinary station. Confirmation of such a thing is issued in a minute. I had a chance to see it work in Obrenovac, since I'm a Obrenovian, so I know that the confirmation is issued in one minute. In this way the state controls both the traffic and the type of livestock and the category of animals and the payment of funds and what is most important pay only healthy throats. Without this, it is certain that you are unable to properly and safely track both production and production. To go back to that example of myself that I tried to vividly illustrate what I think this law needs to be done better. When the police department registers and issues a traffic licence, it does it for the right thing, so, for a healthy vehicle and that's the basis for getting a premium insurance. Now apply all that to this law and I think you know what I'm talking about. To inform you of only one fact, which is that I have asked for and that I have carried out a comparative legal analysis of how something like this has been governed by laws in Croatia and laws in Slovenia, that without confirmation, that animal health has been resolved there, and that is precisely by the veterinary service in which I have submitted amendments, it is not possible to achieve a regress, it is not possible to achieve any incentive, nor can it be possible to obtain premiums. I think with the proposed amendments proposed by the SPO Group as well as the DHSS all of them, I think that without their adoption, in my final opinion, they lose everyone, the state most, and all the producers of the adopted amendments to both our parliamentary groups and the individual amendments that really deserve to be adopted, and this is not a whim, but a need. They are all placed in a level playing field, and above all by adopting those fully justified amendments. It is fully protected because it knows that it consumes healthy meat, knows that it consumes healthy milk and all other products of animal origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10543	Thank you. The word is by MP Velimir Stanojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10544	Thank you. Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since there is a debate on a single principled search on several legislative acts, on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, I will first and foremost refer to the proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, as one such document appears for the first time in parliament. According to the percentage of processed areas, by the number of direct farmers, then especially important, by the participation of agriculture in the creation of over 10% GDP, by all these criteria, of course, it is freely said that Serbia is a typical agrarian country. However, in economic policy measures by the state, this has often been unrecognizable. In fact, as you yourself know in the past decade, the average agricultural budget is only around 4% of the national budget, and given the fact that agrobusiness means agriculture and processing, the food industry participates in creating GDP with 20%. The level of separation over the past year when the agrarian budget was very diverse, so we had the case that in 2004, it was over 5% of the total budget, only five years later it was twice as much, i.e. subsidies for agriculture in 2009 nominally falling to the level of the previous five or six years, and of course realistically due to the rate of dinars, energy prices and other impotences in production, have become less than 30%. In addition, it should, of course, be borne in mind that, as you Mr. Ministers said, agriculture and the food industry are the only branches of the Serbian economy that make surplus in the foreign trade, and should in particular underline the only activity in some parts of Serbia that can raise employee growth and income within a relatively short period. As a result, agriculture deserves to finally become the most privileged branch of the economy, and its economic progress can only be expected if rapid renewal of the machinery is provided, the accumulation of land, the realisation of agricultural production, the competitive purchase at guaranteed prices, subsidies for strategic products that will follow the trends of their movements primarily with the countries of the environment. Of course, the achievement of these objectives is only possible with the permanent separation for the agrarian budget at a far higher level than has been so far since they are really small when looking at budgets in the region without talking about Europe. Of course, it rejoices that the strategic definition of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance, in 2014 is 5%, but only then will we return to the level we had ten years ago. This is all for the reason that a stable and long-term agricultural policy could be created in the first place and that a constant incentive policy that will last for years ahead of us would finally be established. However, if the EU's budget is the largest, I think that this is more than 50 billion euros a year for agriculture, precisely because of their knowledge, i.e. the fact that its economic potential does not allow, without subsidies, to produce sufficient quality food at acceptable prices, then, of course, it must also apply to Serbia, which is in this economic, social and other situation. So, only under these conditions can it become the most privileged branch of the economy in Serbia, first of all it should reflect, of course, through, once again, the larger funding in national finances. Of course, this support must not depend solely on the farmed area, it should also be focused on dying, regressing, and specific measures should be aimed at strengthening the infrastructure of the manufacturer, i.e. on investment. As I said, there was no law on stimulating agriculture in Serbia so far that would define the country's long-term agricultural agrarian policy for a long time and, above all, ensure predictability in agricultural production. In fact, the current mechanisms for agrarian policy in Serbia have not contributed to the establishment of a predictable and consistent agrarian policy for several reasons. The species and the scope of incentives have often changed, the criteria have changed even during one year, they have often been inconsistencies with EU regulations and in general when we talk about agricultural producers, or end-users, they have simply had one difficult follow-up due to the adoption of dozens of regulations in one year. In this sense, this is a very important document that needs to be done regardless of any shortcomings we will hear today, it should be one of the holders of a national strategy in agrarian policy. In fact, in the coming period, this law should ensure security, i.e. practically, that farmers know what the country's moves will do not only in one calendar year, but also in the coming years so that they can plan their production and adapt primarily their investment activities, because without finishing, processing, without investing in agriculture, without improving cultivation technologies, we certainly cannot achieve what we want when it comes to agrarian. The measures that have so far been more or less existing, and now they are framed in this law and which is very important they become binding. Of course, one of the newspapers is the introduction of a register of incentives, i.e. databases on who these users are, in which amount they received funds, for which purposes and thus I assume that a database and a basis for strategic planning and financing of agriculture in the future will be created. You yourself know that during the public debate, you could often hear a conflict of opinion on the proposal of this law from those who believe it fits the needs and state of agriculture, with the praise that this right now has legal and natural persons who have registered active ownership, including cooperatives, of course those who consider the proposed solutions to be bad, because large business systems are favoured, and they marginalise classic small family households. In any event, the aim of this law should be to establish predictability and predictability, but also the stability of agrarian policy through direct payments, rural development measures, specific incentives, by specifically referring to direct payments, through premiums of incentives for plant and livestock production, regressions and credit support, which would certainly, to the extent that this state can currently do, should contribute to and improve the quality of milk, the stability of the raw material base for the dairy industry, but also to help to a certain extent to reduce the cost of the products and their higher competitiveness, as well as to improve the yield per unit of the area, as well as to improve the racial composition and the overall increase of one weak stock fund. From that point of view, I particularly think that these measures concerning livestock production are important. This, first of all, through lending, will help manufacturers to a certain extent, now depending on how much, it will be said later on, that they can predict their investment activities and, above all, throw an accent on the economy and the development of agricultural products. Otherwise, I believe that the specific value of this act is that it treats certain areas in Serbia in a positive way, in which conditions of agricultural activity are difficult to attend. Whether natural, social or economic constraints simply do not allow intensive farming in these areas, so that they are treated here in a way, which I think is commendable. Otherwise, I agree that a single agrarian policy should be conducted in Serbia, but definitely the conditions of farming in this country, however small, are not the same at all. You yourself know that completely one condition and as regards the size of parcels and conditions of cultivation and possessions are quite different in Vojvodina, completely different in central Serbia, even in central Serbia, depends on the regions, definitely through this law, but first of all I think through the adoption of these strategic documents special attention should be paid to some areas that in some way this law is not sufficiently treated or at least so seems to me. I hope that the adoption of this law will create favourable conditions for the development of agriculture. One of the suggestions, of course, with the greeting of what you are announcing, that this year a strategy for the development of agriculture will be adopted, perhaps with the adoption of this law and consider amendments to the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on the Registration of Agricultural Lands. It seems to me that in certain parts of them, they can compromise the implementation of this law that is before us, or in some way devalue its application. Finally, what is an objection, which will be created further through the adoption of a number of sublegal acts, i.e. to specify some important provisions of this act. I think it was necessary to implement it in the basic text of the law, because immediately after its adoption, end-users would have a direct insight into what they can expect by adopting this document. I'm afraid this process will slow down. One more remark. Perhaps it should have been included in the Law and in the specific branch distribution of funds – fruit growing, vineyarding and war production. It seems to me that fruit-wine-growing production in the bill of this law appears only in a few places. Fruit production is the most important agricultural branch in a good part of central Serbia. Vineyarding is probably an example of good practice that out of one completely collapsed activity, intervention of the state by subsidies, can also create advanced agricultural holdings dealing with the processing of grapes. As for fruit growing, Mr. Minister, you know very well what kind of problems can be created and made with, for example, raspberries producers. Not to say it's our number one export item. To mention that families in this country, above all in western Serbia, base their existence on several hundred plum trees or a few dozen acres of raspberries, and with full agreement that development policy should be guided by the bill, however, this country is in such a social state that it has to be taken care of in some way, I know in the bill, it also refers to non-commercial households, but it must also be taken into account of this social component. I certainly think it is excellent that this bill appears before parliament. It will be applied in the next period, implemented in practice. It'll probably work out eventually. The NS parliamentary group, given that one of our principled definitions is to revitalise the village, revive the village and agriculture, in the voting day will support the law. I would just like to comment very briefly on the proposal for a law on the confirmation of an international contract with plant and genetic resources for food and agriculture. Of course, the objective of this contract is primarily to preserve and use plant and genetic resources created in the centuries-old selection and cultivation process and simply to impose a global need for their preservation and use as a bearer of a series of qualitative properties. For example, low-temperature resistance, gust resistance, etc. Which is particularly relevant in our recent years. Also, the process of creating new varieties is long and expensive. By signing this contract, Serbia will become a country that accesss the system of exchanges of plant and genetic resources necessary to create new types of hybrid varieties. This will promote an integrated approach to research. A list of plant genetic resources will be made, the convention of the same, so that the parliamentary group will support the bill, as well as all others that are under this principle debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10545	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Slavica Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10546	Dear Members of Parliament and MPs, honourable ministers and representatives of the Government, the MPs of the SDPS express their satisfaction that the session of the National Assembly is on the agenda of the draft law establishing and regulating subsidies and incentives for agricultural production, as only the law can guarantee greater stability and predictability for our agricultural producers. When agricultural policy measures are regulated only by regulations, the government is more likely to suffer pressures and attempts at different influences. A World Bank for Agriculture expert recently said that Serbia had five agriculture ministers in ten years and that each of the ministers had a different agricultural policy than its predecessor. We must agree with him that such practice is not good, and the reasons should be sought in the absence of a long-term strategy for the development of agriculture. There were three-year national programmes, but due to great financial instability, there were no conditions for longer-term planning. Making a strategy for a period of ten years is necessary for a number of reasons. First, because of the new financial conditions and then because of the announcement that since 2014, our farmers will be exposed to foreign competition. Data suggest that in the external trade, domestic agriculture has recorded surpluses, but has lost several hundred thousand consumers over the last ten years, around half of its exports to the EU market. Serbia has traditionally to return to the US and Russia markets, as well as to other markets. Under the conditions of strong competition, this is not possible unless Serbia increases its agricultural production and provides a better quality and higher level of processing of agricultural products, as well as greater productivity. Productivity after employment of workers in Serbia in cereals is 2.2 times lower and in milk 6.2 times lower compared to the average productivity in the EU. Data from agrarian economists' society say a farmer feeds 15 residents in Serbia and 156 residents in Germany. Serbia has 4.2 million hectares of farmland. The key problem is irrigation. Investments for irrigating land are never expensive, as revenue per hectare that is irrigated with the application of agrotechnical measures is four to five times higher. The critical point for our development is the food industry because we do not have adequate processing facilities, as well as sufficient number of fruit-processing factories. The Chamber of Commerce also warns of damaged parities at the expense of agricultural producers. Once a kilo of fertilizer was paid with 800 grams of wheat, and now with three kilograms of wheat. This led to a decline in the use of fertilisers, and thus to a reduction in the yield itself. Our agriculture is characterized by delicacy and sparcellism. Agricultural machinery is outdated, the average age of machinery is about 15 years. Because of all this and whether or not we will see the EU's common agrarian policy as a backdrop or a stumbling block, requirements and standards regarding average productivity, the application of agritechnical measures, the production of healthy food, conservation of natural resources and the protection of the environment must be met. The experiences of countries in the process of negotiations and EU accession are different. And good and bad, and we must be wise enough to make the right use of them. A strategy is needed to identify which food we want to produce. Whether we want to produce conventional food, organic food and authentic domestic product or genetically modified products. There is not enough organic food on the European market. Also, in order for the product to be dominant in export at a higher stage, cooperatives or classers must be formed. Due to these problems, the draft law on the agenda today is essential for further planning and for both the country and the agricultural producers. This law introduces predictability and security for agricultural producers, and I will only repeat the most important measures set out in this proposal for legislation because of the exceptional importance and interest of our citizens. The proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development provides for the following - three types of incentives: direct payments, incentives for rural development measures, special incentives. The types of direct payments are premiums, production incentives, regressions, credit support. The premiums shall be paid for the agricultural products delivered and quarterlyly for cows, sheep, goats and raw milk, at least three thousand litres of cow's milk per quarter, and 1,500 liters in the area with difficult working conditions in agriculture. The minimum amount of premium is seven dinars per litre of milk, and so far there have been five dinars. Incentives for production are, for plant production and, within them, basic incentives for the area of plant production, at least six thousand dinars per hectare, up to 100 hectares of farmland, once a year. Production-related incentives are generated by the area of plant production, with a minimum yield per hectare for a particular type of plant production and a particular culture up to 100 hectares. Incentives for livestock are realized in minimum amounts of, for cows, 20,000 dinars per throat, goats, sheep and pigs four thousand dinars per throat, June 10 000, lambs 1000, for tong pigs 1000, for bee hives 500 dinars per hive. Regresses for purchased fuel, fertilizer and seed shall be paid at a minimum amount of 6 000 dinar per hectare, for the same areas for which the manufacturer has obtained the right to base incentives, while insurance premiums shall be at least 40% of the premium paid for crops, fruits, multi-annual ambushes, nursery and animals, as well as for storage costs in public warehouses and at least 40% of the storage costs. The bill also provides for certain reductions in the payment of direct payments and so that in the course of the year, the beneficiary of the funds can achieve a amount of 10 million dinars of reduction. If it achieves 10 to 20 million dinars, the funds are reduced by 5%. If the amount exceeds 20 million dinars, it decreases 10%. The method of reduction is also prescribed by this bill. Another large group of incentives are incentives for rural development measures and they concern investments in agriculture to improve competition and better quality standards, namely: for agricultural production, strengthening producer groups, processing of agricultural products and marketing. Encouragement for sustainable rural development for the implementation of agri-ecological measures, organic production, conservation of plant and animal genetic resources, compensation for missed profits due to good agricultural practice. In organic payment production, they include premiums, incentives for production and regression for fuel, fertilizer, seed and increased 40% for producers during the conversion period and waiting for certification. Incentives for improving the rural economy include incentives for rural infrastructure development, support for non-agricultural activities in the countryside, adding value of agricultural products, certification of food safety and quality, organic production and production with geographical indication and training. The incentives will also cover the preparation and implementation of the local rural development strategy programme. The specific incentive from the group of direct incentives concerns marketing and information systems in agriculture, accounting data system in agriculture, advisory work, scientific and research projects, breeding programmes in livestock, for the production of fruit material. The right to encourage this law will have agricultural holdings, agricultural family holdings registered in the register, commercial and non-commercial, units of local self-government, other persons and organisations under the terms of the law. The right will be exercised on the basis of requirements submitted by the Agency for Agricultural Payments, with registration data, on 31 March, as well as on the basis of competitions through banks. The user of the incentive shall be obliged to use the means for purpose, to strictly comply with the rules, with the decision to reduce the incentives allocated to the percentage corresponding to the degree of responsibility being taken if this is not the case. The register of incentives, in agriculture and rural development, lists the type and height of incentives achieved per user and they are public. The Minister of Agriculture prepares an annual report on work submitted to the government and is part of it an annual report on the state of agriculture, in a previous calendar year called "Green Paper". The supervision of the application of these rules shall be carried out by agricultural inspectors with the appropriate powers set out in Article 44 of the Law. I'll conclude my exposure to the next one. The government has achieved its goal of raising the agricultural budget in the 2013 budget. When this law is adopted, which systematically determines the types of incentives, means of use and conditions to achieve incentives, new national programmes can be accessed, as well as the development of a 10-year-old agricultural development strategy. It is only then that we can safely say that Serbia is on track to increase and improve its agricultural production, both for the benefit of the producers and for the benefit of the entire economy that agriculture must rely on. In that sense, our parliamentary club has submitted several amendments, which we hope will be accepted and improved by the text of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10547	Thank you. National MP Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10548	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Your Honor, Madam Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like first of all to point out, although I did not want to report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is that famous Article 128. The Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that MPs are obliged to take card records with them when leaving the hall. So it's not enough to just get these cards out of the electronic system, to bend them out, but to get them out of the O.R. and to have MPs in possession of these cards, precisely because of some possible abuses that can occur in that way if they stay. I am not saying this for the reason that I want someone in any way to belittle you, Mr. President or MPs of the ruling coalition, but it is simply unacceptable that this article 128 has not yet been mastered, even though Mr. Djuric spoke about that member an hour, an hour and a half ago. It is a violation of Parliament's dignity, when MPs do not work so hard to at least read one member of the Rules of Procedure and then comply with the Rules of Procedure and act. So this was just one note, without any ambition on my part to expect you to respect this Article 128. Rules of Procedure. Of course, when we talk about these laws and the incentives in agriculture and rural development and air protection law, and in general all the laws that are on the agenda today, we simply have to make it clear that we as a parliamentary group are not against investment, we are not against any way being positively advanced by legislation and that something is done in terms of respect of the law. However, we cannot provide blank support to these legal proposals if they remain in this form with such content as is given to this Parliament. We have submitted certain amendments, and we really expect that during the debate in principle and debates in particular to achieve a certain policy by the ruling coalition in order to consider all the good amendments, good solutions from these amendments, which will be introduced into the laws, so that they improve the laws, and then in that sense we can talk, give support and laws that are on the agenda, and in particular this concerns these first two laws: the Law on Incentives in agriculture and rural development and the Law on Air and Air Protection. No one normal in this Serbia can be against foreign investment, it cannot be, Mr. Minister, against subsidies to farmers and agriculture. It's an alpha and omega survival of agriculture, agrarians, and you yourself said how important agrarian is, how much this agrobusiness percentage makes GDP, and how much this agrobusiness carries that surplus unlike industry. So that's what we agree on. We also agree that we need foreign investments, normally, besides domestic ones. However, we cannot agree on how you think you are running a agricultural policy, improving it, unless you imitate it with land policy. Agriculture policy is essentially a land policy, and in the way it has been shown lately, what direction this agricultural policy is going, you can't score and you can't achieve good results in favour of this country and all citizens of Serbia. Why am I telling you this? First of all, my claim concerns this legal work that is under way, which has been initiated apparently since last year with a foreign private company regarding the sale, the lease, the conclusion of some business-technical co-operation, where the subject is actually agricultural land. I was really trying to find on the site of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management the text of the pre-contract that was concluded. I'm not ours. It is incorrect to claim that there is a pre-contract on the site. If I'm wrong, Mr. Minister, I apologize in advance. I really tried, and I couldn't find it. So, nothing personal. From what is said in public, what is presented as being contained in that contract comes the following. The fact is that the provisions of the Constitution are violated, the provisions of several laws are violated, so, positive regulations, the Law on Agriculture, the Law on Restitution, the Law on Privatisation. So we already have one problem with a legal discrepancy over a legal deal that's under way. So that's one of the most important issues I have to tell you. Why is it necessary for one law, or legal business to be in accordance with the Constitution, specifically when it comes to the sale of agricultural land? Because agricultural land is defined by the Constitution as a natural treasure. As a natural wealth cannot be sold to foreign investors, it cannot be realised in this way that this legal business is started by alienating or renting or making use of, whatever it means, agricultural land. So it's unconstitutional. The Agriculture Act does not allow the sale of agricultural wealth, i.e. natural wealth to foreign legal persons, companies, natural persons or anyone. So that's inadmissible. Natural wealth, in this case, land is unrenewable. So, the moment you sell the agricultural land, you sort of decided that the land would no longer be in the jurisdiction of this state. In a way, you're losing your sovereignty on land. The authorities of Hungary, which at one point lost sovereignty in the territory of the western part of Hungary, can tell you a lot, since they sold agricultural land so quickly and in large areas. When they realized that, then they started buying the same land, normally, at much higher prices than the ones at which they were selling it. Simply, it's a pain in the transition countries - what to do with agricultural land, what to do with natural wealth that is unrenewable, do you put it in the first investment plan? I'll tell you something also about the tender that is needed and how it's needed, if you think as a serious state to seriously conclude a legal job and get the best offer and get the best possible funding from investment. This is inadmissible. First, the question arises – how did you get to this investor? Did you look for him? Has he reached the Serbian government? There's a big difference when you want to sell or buy something, do you, because in that case you're reducing the maneuvering space in achieving the best price, the best solution in this legal business. It's of paramount importance to clear up. Therefore, we need to be informed in a transparent manner from the start of this legal work, what happens to the sale of agricultural land -- eight agricultural combinations in restructuring, so failed agricultural combinations, six of which are located on the territory of Vojvodina? You know, these are combinations that went through one privatisation process and it's obvious that this privatisation didn't work out, and one of those agricultural combinations was even bought by Karic, so obviously that the privatisation failed, given that the agricultural combination, one of these eight, got into this situation, that it could no longer survive on the market and in the business world. So, six of these agricultural combinations, with their capital, and it's questionable whether or not agricultural land enters the capital of agricultural combinations? That is why this is a problem with these agricultural combinations, as it was possible for agricultural land to appear as the basic subject of this privatisation, failed privatisation. I understand that there have been certain legal interpretations, that agricultural land is part of the capital. In that sense, when a combination is sold, the property is sold in fact. The point is that while this assembly was bringing the 11th edition of the resolution on Kosovo and while the top officials of this country swore that they would never recognise Kosovo's independence, that they were fighting for territorial integrity, the sovereignty of Serbia's state, while abroad, the finance and business minister concluded a questionable pre-contract, where at least 16,000 hectares of first-class agricultural land gave way to a foreign legal person, a private company, and what are we talking about now? There is one profane fact that Serbia, in fact, lost its sovereignty in Kosovo and the moment that the Serbian estates in Kosovo were sold, and the holdings include agricultural land, you from the ruling coalition have so much regret and are doing everything you can to question this autonomy of the province of Vojvodina in all possible ways, to reduce, minimise and so on, and at the same time sell agricultural land, selling eight agricultural combinations to a foreign legal person. You deprive yourself of natural wealth, of agricultural land, of depriving yourself, literally, of sovereignty on one, you will allow, however, a large area of land. It is obvious that you will find ways to reconcile these shortcomings around the tender, around the foreign legal person as a buyer and the like, by actually packing this contract into an interstate agreement, an international contract that has priority over other laws in the legal order of Serbia, but it cannot save you from responsibility, although it is obvious that you want to transfer responsibility for the sale of agricultural land to this Assembly, which will ratify those international contracts. Where is this international element when you sell to a private company, a foreign company, or where is this state element when you sell to a private company agricultural land, to make that interstate agreement or contract? So, you state land, which is absolutely according to our Constitution out of traffic, is leased for 30 years at extremely low prices of 250 euros per hectare, which is three times less than that average price. You social property agricultural land sell 10 to 12 000 euros per hectare, although the land's prices have an incredible potential for future prices. In Italy, agricultural land is sold for 50,000 euros per hectare, in the Netherlands for 70,000 euros per hectare, and you are obliged to clear all these companies of debts when you sell them to a foreign private company. We have nothing against investment and foreign investment. We have nothing against this private company, but we have to obey the Constitution of laws. The irony of fate is that we who were against the adoption of this constitution must defend this constitution because we are called to defend the constitutional order. Therefore, we would ask that you who have been so much for the Constitution and so much swearing in that preamble to the Constitution think a little bit about what you do when you sell agricultural land, which is even cut off by the SAA that predicted that agricultural land could be sold to foreigners four years after the entry into force of the SAA. Although, for example, Croatia, Slovenia and Hungary have made far better arrangements about when agricultural land can be sold to foreigners, which was from 10, 15 to 20 years after EU accession, and we have predicted before EU accession that we can sell agricultural land. One more thing, Mr. President of Parliament is not here, so I will ask the chairman one question - are you aware that the President of Parliament as a senior state official is in charge, and he is otherwise second in office in this country, that whenever he notices a threat to the constitutional arrangement of this state, he reacts in the right way? I have not noticed that the president of the RS Assembly has even commented on this legal work in terms of jeopardising constitutional arrangements, and when a legal job is in breach of the Constitution, it is a threat to constitutional regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10549	Thank you. You've been out of the picture the whole time. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Joseph Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10550	Mr. Chairman, if you'll allow me to advertise Article 106. Rules of Procedure. My colleague Judith is talking about respecting the Constitution, respecting the law, and not respecting this basic rule of this house. I believe that in these 20 minutes and five seconds, what she was saying was not even close to the topic that today is the point of the agenda. Namely, if 250 of us are well informed, which is that on the agenda is the proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture, not Kosovo that we finished a week ago, not selling or not selling land, which may one day be the subject, I think you have a duty to warn her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10551	As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, let me begin to chair and it would not be correct to interrupt the speaker immediately. I'm aware she was off topic. I appreciate your objection. The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10552	I wanted what Mr. Joseph Shandor said. This interstate agreement is not the subject of this law at all. In the end, when the discussion is over, I will answer all the questions you asked individually. I have to react here because you've said a lot of things that I'm guessing knowing how studioy you are out of ignorance have said some things that aren't unfortunately true. First of all, you have this pre-negotiation draft on the Ministry of Finance site, and you have it on the government site, because it was adopted on January 9th and there are people who need to sign the pre-contract. Next, you're talking about selling land. Do you know how much land in Vojvodina is now owned by Hungarian, Croatian and Irish citizens? I haven't heard a single moment say that you've raised your voice against it. I didn't hear you raise your voice against it when Saric had 10% working surfaces in Vojvodina. All these privatisations were made with the consent of the AP Vojvodina and their authorities. For these seven combinations, 23m euros were paid and they were devastated completely. You know that very well. Now 100m euros will be paid. On average, 13,300 euros will be paid per hectare. The average price in Vojvodina according to official data is 5,000 euros. The combineds currently owe 30m euros and investors, if the interstate agreement is reached, are obliged to invest another 100m euros in only these seven combinations and plus pledged to invest another 300m euros in Serbia's agriculture in 2013. So, I think it's a great job, and maybe the best job Serbia has done in decades. The agreement will certainly take place on the agenda of this congregation and we will discuss it. For now, I don't think that's the point. I'm sorry to have to answer that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10553	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Judita Popovic is looking for a replica. You have no right, because you have caused a replica. You were out of the agenda. I've tolerated it, and now I'm not going to let the debate go off topic. (National MP Judita Popovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10554	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know what, Mr. Chairman, and you are violating this House's dignity. This is Article 107. Rules of Procedure, since you are obliged to give the MP an opportunity to in case he is not well understood when he has discussed and you do not have the right to deny that possibility of answering. When it comes to Mr. Minister who responded to my discussion, the most normal thing to do is give me a chance to say something in which he misunderstood me. I would especially point out, Mr. Minister, if you hadn't responded to my basic dilemma – what will the government do when they know they're breaking so many laws and constitutions...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10555	Mrs. Popovic, I will not allow you outside of the Rules of Procedure to behave. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and don't lead the replica now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10556	Does this mean that you're denying me the opportunity to talk in this House about a sensitive subject that is...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10557	I don't want to have a discussion with you. You've reported after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you can talk about it. I'm going to answer that commercial of yours about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I don't think I hurt you. The minister was very clear. He responded to your discussion that was not in line with the subject. He didn't hurt you in anything. I had the right as chairman to evaluate and assess whether you were entitled to a replica. I've assessed that you have no right, and I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed. The word is Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10558	The Honorable Chairman, Minister Knezevic, representatives of the government, fellow MPs and MPs, agricultural producers have so far been largely uncertain and the fact that this law has been put into a procedure that is very important, given that agrarian policy has been passed from year to year, and we know that the agrarian does not suffer the kind of uncertainty. Until now, regulations have been amended from season to season so that the current minister seems to adapt the budget to day-to-day political developments. The expectations of this law are high and farmers were convinced that once it was adopted, agricultural production would be far more certain and secure. The good intentions of this bill are to include all agricultural holdings in the beneficiaries of subsidies. The fact that subsidies are first included in users and legal persons leads to the fear of individual farmers that the funds will not be enough for both. The next major objection to this proposal of the Encouraging Law is that the law is unarranged and in most members only makes it a legal framework that may not be applicable. Even in 15 cases, the minister is closer to prescribing conditions, ways and procedures for the exercise of the right to subsidies. So whoever is the minister in this or in the next term, he has all the will and is left to the fate of 450 registered owners in the RS. It has been so far and we know that these regulations in which the minister decided were not good. What interests farmers most is the kinds of incentives. Last year and every year we had some protests from farmers, and this year the farmers protested because they held their opinion that direct donations should be applied by hectare, which is what this law predicted. Rural development measures are first included in this kind of legal regulation. This is very important in the EU accession process so that in some near future we can have the opportunity to use EU funds. However, if the minister himself prescribes, not only the type of rural development measure, but also the maximum amount of incentives per user and per type of measure, then there is an inevitable doubt in the good intentions of the legislator. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has some opinions on the proposal for a law on incentives. The main objection is that the adoption of this bill does not take into account the objections of various associations of Vojvodina farmers. These associations mainly said that a member should be deleted from the bill which allows for the allocation of incentives for parcels greater than 100 hectares, as farmers believe that production on smaller parcels should be stimulated. Also, the view of different associations is that Article 16 should be deleted. Proposal for a law relating to hectares to encourage plant production. That way it needs to be stimulated by how much it's produced. We believe that subsidies should be at least 200 euros, which in our terms is too much, in dinar equivalent, i.e. that legal entities and entrepreneurs cannot be users of subsidies and regressions. It is assumed that there will not be enough funding from the budget for both couples and legal persons. It is necessary to find ways to subsidise indigenous races and plant production, i.e. in the part of the law relating to rural development, legal persons and entrepreneurs should be expelled as users, and undeveloped municipalities, devasted areas and border areas should be added. Our objection in this law is to give great discretionary rights to a minister who, even in 14 places, prescribes and subsequently makes decisions and limits on what will happen to these incentives. I would like to ask the minister, we read today in the media that at a fair in Germany our country, our agriculture, presented with several jars of beet, ajvar and cucumbers and a wine cellar, will this incentive law worry that we are competitive on the foreign market? The agricultural fair in Germany, attended by about 400,000 people, does not show that the Ministry of Agriculture is in some way caring about our competitiveness on the EU market.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10559	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Joseph Chandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10560	Mr. Chairman, respected ministers, members of the government, respected colleagues, in the last few weeks, I have visited the former workplace where I worked until July 16th, and this is the Agricultural Co-operation in Gornji Breg near Sainta. I've had a lot of meetings and meetings with my former agricultural producers. The truth is what a colleague, who sat here behind me, said from SVM that they were out in the field and that they had propagated this law. It's true that the minister was in the field and that he was propagating the law. The truth is, the media dealt with this law. I have to say, I didn't have any special problems. We've just been having conversations about whether it suits them, whether that's what we've been up against for the past 20 years. Namely, I was with them from 1992 to 16 July last year, so we survived wars, large inflations, paying a huge agricultural tax, losing huge money and capital in agriculture. Finally, what I've heard from the director these days, we'll have stability, security, predictability. Namely, producers in Vojvodina and producers in Serbia expected it. None of them claim that these things we're talking about today were in some sense arranged. None of them claim that the state did not deal with them, but one claim – there was no plan, there was no strategy, there was no law, there was no security, there was no predictability, they didn't know what would happen next year. They were exposed to sweet or unkind events regardless of whether we were in an election year or an election year. Every year, we spent a month arguing, making suggestions how much to make subsidies for this, for whether to be a hectare, whether to be a kilo. I'm glad we're discussing and discussing this law today. I'm glad that finally everything that's been done back ten years, everything that's a little bit put in that basket, is now framed and got a legal framework. Our agricultural producers can now say that the state has taken a step forward, that is, if we adopt this law. The question arises immediately – are they satisfied with this? Of course they're not happy. The level of subsidies of 6,000 dinars does not correspond to them. That's a little bit. Can we do more right now? Unfortunately, we can't. We are all happy, together with you, who managed to push those 4.5% out of the agrarian budget, to do something compared to earlier in the year, to return the 2004 glow when we had 5% or approximately 5% in 2004, 2005 and 2006. After that, these subsidies began to drop. I think we're finally on our way. Will we also be able to give more money to our farmers? There's been an opportunity in this law. So, every year, the competent minister will make his decision whether it can possibly expand, increase these amounts or not. Whether agricultural producers are satisfied with this amount or not, I am responsible for telling you that they are much happier, because at least this is safe. What we should do, I say again in conversation with them, we've reviewed this law, they'd prefer us to specify that date when we get it. We said that they would have to report all data by 31 March of the previous year and that the ministry would take those data into account, so we will call the terms of the regulation, i.e. the minister will regulate it by regulation. They'd still like to know about how much it is. Is that 30 days, 60 days, 90 days? I must tell you that in the conversation with them, I said that it is difficult to propose to the minister, because we are now stabilising the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Now we have data from the previous year, and now it's very hard to get into some promise that we may not be able to keep later. However, as a recommendation, I would tell Mr. Secretary, but he knows very well that these are the opinions of all our producers. What did we do with this law, besides stabilizing, do? We've defined the basic premium for agricultural production, we've defined the regress for cattle. I have to tell you, since for 20 years we've been working, in 1992, 1993 and 1994, when it was very difficult because of the situation at the time, there were 4,000 pigs in this small community. Every day we bought 6,000 gallons of milk. I don't want to talk about the other data. What brought about the next 20 years is that today there is no more service cargo in cooperatives, hardly a single cooperative works, no more cooperatives at all. Milk production's down, now we've got 600 liters of per day's buy-in milk. Therefore, is this law necessary, is stability necessary? I don't think we should talk about it. I'll just point out, since I mentioned the rate, we've submitted eight amendments to this bill. We think that there should be a little review here and there, counting on small producers mostly. Mr. Minister and Government have most likely looked at these amendments, and later my colleagues will explain it. It mainly refers to the purchase of cattle, pigs, or lambs, in that part when we say that the minimum 10 pieces must be handed over in order to be recognized as a regression. Unfortunately, in rural conditions throughout the country, not only in Vojvodina, it is very difficult to hold those 10 pieces, just as it is very difficult to keep it from being handed over directly to cattle to slaughterhouses. You know very well that in all of Serbia, as well as in Vojvodina, only here and there had direct ransom places, the ransom mainly works cooperatives, the ransom mainly works by authorised companies on behalf of those slaughterhouses that have adequate papers, so in that sense we have submitted a number of amendments that I believe will be considered and I think the welfare of the manufacturer will be foreseen. I'd say one thing that my colleagues haven't said today, and it's very important, we've all done it together, no matter who the bill promoter is, whether it's from the SVM, whether it's from the DS, whether it's from there, or whether it's from there, and that's one promise that we all made to the producers in the campaign in time, and that's not going to be a grant to the PIO. All those involved in the agricultural business and those who did not, who were involved in politics, know very well what the disturbances in the previous years caused this regulation that bound the acquisition of the right to a payment subsidy PIO. Not only did a large number of producers fail to achieve, not only did they begin to accumulate even greater debts to the pension-inhabited fund, but we created great problems for people both in planning and in investment. It's just that a lot of them couldn't make that money. I'm glad we took that into account now, they're all glad and they're all relieved, just like we're glad we stayed in the decision to go for subsidies based on existing hectares, not on kilograms. Of course, there's a professional explanation for that, why it's so much better. I'm not getting into that right now. The important thing is that the legislator respected it and that in those decisions, we went in the right direction. It is very important for me, as a man who has worked and lived in a small town in Gornji Breg for 20 years, that we have dedicated ourselves especially to rural development, because there are many such small places in Serbia, even smaller and more abandoned, and this village, like others, have fewer and fewer inhabitants. They slowly stop dealing with livestock, no more milk production, the young leave the village. The only way the state, society, the province, the municipality can help them legally is by means of incentives, by rural development. Whether it's the summer roads, whether it's the sewers, whether it's a little bridge across the canal, whether it's the repair of the tomb, the church, whether it's the repair of the cultural home, or whether it's all part of this project. I think we can help these people who are in these little settlements and I think it's very good that we went that way. The other thing that's also very important to me, living among them, we've made a big difference over the past 10 years, strategically it's done. Many small producers have fallen apart, sold their lands, left their jobs, the smaller ones who could join together, joined together, bought some land. I mean, they're getting stronger. Now we have one layer that's something stronger than it used to be, five, ten, 15, 20 acres and we've created one layer of very strong manufacturers. What do I mean? What I'm saying is that she's measuring the investment that we left in this law and predicted, I think it's very good that it's done. I have to go back again and say that it's been a few years for the past 10 years, when we used those measures. He gave the producer one dinar, gave the state another dinar, so he could make himself a barn, so he could make himself a barn, so he could possibly even lift the silo. I think, leaving this possibility in the law and leaving space for the minister to regulate things by regulation, we're going to help these new manufacturers who have managed to survive with these little hectares and we're practically providing them with the future, to be competitive with these big ones that have already grown into very large producers. It's not in this law, but I have to say, unbound for what I belong to and whose name I speak, I think as part of this increase in VAT compensation, at the time we did these tax laws, it was also a big help to our producers, so when I look at all this within, I think this country and this government have now made a big and serious step towards their producers, to strengthen the capacity of our producers. I listened very carefully to Mr. Secretary what was planned for this year. If I understand correctly, we plan to make a national strategy, make a national plan. If we put this on the table this year and if all of these travel routes, which we've been going through this law, we're going to respect, I think we're going to have a lot of trust with those producers who have really been wrong in the last few years, whether it's going to help, it's not going to help, whether it's going to be a subsidy or not. Of course, in this country, a subsidy of these two times 6,000 dinars, plus those petty supplements, is not adequate. We will not be competitive with those from the EU and I, as well as a colleague who mentioned Hungary, know very well what the situation is like in Hungary, because I have followed closely over the past 20 years, I have been very often with them. We know the situation in Croatia. However, finally, institutionally passing this law, we set out on that path, on that path, that we too slowly stabilise and strengthen our agricultural producers. There are a few things that this law does not solve, there are a few things in agriculture that, in my opinion, in the opinion of the vast majority of us, should be put on the astal. Employment in agriculture has not been resolved, the status of women farmers with no insurance, no maternity care is not resolved. There's still a lot to go on. I'm aware, as most likely all of you, that it's all to solve. There's still the capacity to do something. Unfortunately, this year doesn't seem to be for it. This year we need to tighten the belts and stabilize what can stabilize. My exposure wouldn't go any further. All the colleagues who have spoken, except for one, who has not been on the subject, I think we're talking about the same, we want the same thing, to push our agriculture in the direction it deserves to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10561	Thank you. The word is made by the National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10562	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, of the six important draft laws which are the subject of a united debate, with all due respect and respect for the proposed laws on the validation of international contracts, protocols and agreements, which should certainly be accepted and confirmed by the National Assembly, I will talk about one draft law, the draft law on incentives in rural development. The proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture in rural development is an extremely important bill and merits special attention, since adopted solutions will significantly determine future developments in our agriculture and our village. The bill is largely based on the Budget Law which, among other things, is a certain height and structure of the agrarian budget. As most of the agrarian budget is foreseen for various types of incentives and to help our agricultural producers, it is the Government and the Resorb Ministry of this proposal that wants the law to regulate species and the minimum amount of incentives, as well as the criteria for obtaining the right to use them. That's why I think that, after the adopted larger agrarian budget for this year, this is a new extremely important and commendable step by the government and the rest of the ministry towards supporting our agriculture and our village. The proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development is important for all participants in the chain of agricultural production and food industry. It is important for the entire rural population of our country, which makes up almost half of Serbia's population. This law is also important for our society in general, for which we aim to produce sufficient amounts of healthy food. But this bill is also important from the point of view of providing goods for export to foreign markets with the aim of obtaining the foreign funds necessary for the functioning of our social community. Although, on the basis of more important indicators, the situation in our agriculture can be seen as difficult, and our agricultural production, in general, as insufficiently developed, still the importance of agriculture for Serbia today is extremely large. That is, it is clear if agriculture today participates in the creation of GDP with over 17% and that it is the only branch of our economy that provides a positive external trade balance in many years. Namely, the data suggests that agriculture and the food industry participate in Serbia's total exports by about 21% and imports by around 6.8%. Starting from this, given the potential, untapped or insufficiently used, which our country has, it is clear that agriculture in Serbia in the coming years and can and must both improve and increase. To do so, we must first of all strive to ensure more productivity in the work, i.e. to get bigger yields per unit of farmed surface and more products than farmed animals. In order to achieve this objective, it is particularly important to know and apply modern plant and animal cultivation technologies, continuously monitor and implement scientific achievements, as well as in this respect adequate professional support and assistance. We need to reduce raw and rooted agricultural areas, we need to stop in a long line of years present a tendency to reduce the number of all kinds of domestic animals and create conditions for the gradual increase of our livestock fund. We must use bolder and significantly more natural predisposition for the development of organic production and production of meat, milk and eggs of special and guaranteed quality. We need to significantly respect and use the expertise of our graduate agricultural engineers. We also need to provide support for the sustainable development of the village through the improvement of the rural population's standard of living. It is clear that support and assistance from the state is of paramount importance to achieve these objectives. In this respect, legal solutions on incentives in agriculture and rural development are a good starting point. It primarily means stable and long-term predictable agricultural policy. Namely, the government and the resolution ministry want to replace the current regulations with relevant laws. The practice has shown that the regulations governing the issues related to incentives in agriculture and rural development have a number of shortcomings. These shortcomings can significantly slow down and call into question the achievement of the objectives set in the area of agriculture. The basic weakness of the regulation is a large number of the same, their unpredictability and variability from year to year, both in terms of the type and scope of incentives and in terms of the criteria for the exercise of the right to use them. This is why the Government and the Resort Ministry, as a much better, more correct and secure solution to support the state to our agricultural producers, propose a law that would, in a simple, recognizable and extremely transparent manner, regulate: types and ways of using incentives, conditions for the exercise of the right to use them and the register for keeping a unique record of the giving of incentives in agriculture. In addition, the register would establish an effective mechanism to control the spending of funds intended for incentives in agriculture. Most of the assets of the agrarian budget through this proposed law would be placed in the form of direct payments to our agricultural producers. Here are: milk premiums, plant and livestock production incentives, basic and productive incentives, regresses for the purchase of production inputs, insurance, storage in public warehouses and, of course, credit support. The bill defines minimum subsidies, which means that they can be significantly higher if there is more money in the agrarian budget in the coming years, which is what we all want here and we expect. With this proposal for a law in plant production, incentives would be paid to a processed area, at a minimum amount of six thousand dinars per hectare. However, these producers can count on a total of 12 thousand dinars per hectare, by getting half in money and half as a regress for purchased fuel, seeds, fertilizer. The bill limits the granting of a maximum of 100 hectares of farmland, which I believe is justified because otherwise the owners of small holdings in the distribution of available funds would be significantly damaged. It is intended for cattlemen, as direct support, a premium of seven dinars per litre of milk handed over to milkmen, as well as payments on the throat of cattle, for each cow 20,000 dinars, June 10 thousand dinars, sow, goat or sheep four thousand, and lamb or pig a thousand dinars. It is clear from a brief review of the above mentioned data on production incentives in livestock farming that different categories of animals are intended for breeding in the areas of bovine, sheep farming, pig farming and gambling. Practically, among the major producers of the most important animal products – milk, meat and eggs, only production incentives in the field of livestock were left behind in the bill. I believe that this branch of livestock also deserves the support and help of the state, for several reasons, of which I will list only some. In our case, livestock is an extremely important branch of livestock, as livestock is provided with significant quantities of meat and eggs. Thus, in the total quantity of meat produced in our country, animal meat participates with about 20% and thus comes to a second place, right behind the production of pig meat. Otherwise, animal meat is the meat of specific nutritional characteristics that make it an extremely valuable food for the population, all categories of the population, both children and adults and the elderly. In addition, it should be pointed out that animal meat is cheaper compared to other kinds of meat and is therefore easier, accessible and lower social layers of our society. Our livestock in previous years survived, although all economic indicators questioned the economic justification of investment in animal meat and egg production. I have no doubt that the Government, the Resort Ministry, as we all do here and in the future expect from our livestock breeders great meat and egg production, good product quality and for our citizens an acceptable price. For this reason, I believe that, in the context of the proposed production incentives in livestock, it is certainly necessary to include livestock. In that sense, I have proposed appropriate amendments, I hope the minister will keep his promise and that these amendments will be adopted. In this way, I believe that this, otherwise, good proposal for a Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development would be even better. In addition to livestock, it is good to find and produce incentives among these incentives in the area of fishing, as the minister also announced as accepting the amendment. Fishing is a large and insufficient potential for our agriculture. It deserves more attention, primarily because of the significantly higher needs of the domestic market for this type of meat, than the quantities we have managed to provide for our own production so far. In fact, we've only covered about 30% of our needs so far. On the other hand, there are great opportunities to export. Here, above all, should be taken into account the EU market, which is a major importer of this type of meat. In addition to direct incentives, the bill also provides for the peace of rural development measures, such as support for investments in agriculture to improve competitiveness and achieve quality standards, support for sustainable rural development, support for rural economy improvements and the like. In the context of the measure, in order to support sustainable rural development, I would particularly like to highlight and commend the proposed support for the development of organic production. This production in our total agricultural production participates in a very small percentage, although we have extremely favourable natural resources for its development. In this sense, as a great opportunity for the launch and development of this production I see in the mountainous and mountainous areas of our country in which significant agricultural areas have not been processed for years. It is precisely those that meet the most important conditions for starting this production, which is that the land is not treated for at least five years backwards by chemical means. With the launch of organic production in these areas, favourable conditions would be created for resuscitation in some cases of the dead of our villages, with the exception of this proposal for the laws of the funds provided for, I am of the opinion that other measures should be proposed to support organic production with the aim of its launch and affirmation in broad agricultural practice. One measure could be especially and significantly more stimulating young professionals who would be willing to apply their knowledge and skills in practice in this particular production. Every year at the Faculty of Agriculture in Cačka, where I come from, but also in other our agricultural colleges, we have a significant number of graduate agricultural engineers. Their acquired expertise corresponds to the demands of modern agricultural production, and I believe there are many among them who could and would like to practice their own knowledge with the support of society and practice. That would also be good because this production for our agricultural producers and farmers is often and still insufficiently known. In doing so, the launch and expansion of organic production by experts in the area of agriculture would be an excellent solution. In that sense, I see the possibility of additional incentives already in determining the following regulations of this law. Otherwise, organic production deserves great attention, and that is the case, all the research they say is unequivocally saying – that this production will gain more and more importance in the coming years and that there will be more and more those who eat organic food, i.e. Food obtained in a natural, traditional way, ready to pay a higher price for the product. The proposed law also provides for a number of specific incentives, including support for professional and advisory activities, as well as support for the implementation of scientific research, innovative and development projects in the area of agriculture. These incentives, I would especially like to point out and support them, because there is no doubt the 21st century is the age of knowledge. The critical moment of sustainable economic development and improvement of the living standards of the population is in the capacity of society to produce, commercialise, adapt and benefit knowledge. Therefore, investments in science and profession and in agriculture are necessary and have no alternative. Finally, in general, it can already be concluded that it is a good bill, that this bill is in the interest of future growth and the development of our agriculture and that it is in the widest interest of our agricultural producers. Therefore, my parliamentary club, the SPS parliamentary club, will support the proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. With the amendments we expect to be adopted, we want to make this law even better. We know the importance of agriculture today. That's what our prime minister in his exposé said a lot. We fully support his promises and determination of this government to make agriculture a priority for the development of our society in the coming years, and we are ready to give our full support in this direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10563	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Ruzica Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10564	Dear Ministers, Madam Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I am sorry that today's debate is united, i.e. that we are discussing such an important law on incentives and the development of the village together with important international agreements that are on the agenda and that we have united this debate and we have a very short time to talk about it. I'm glad that Madam Minister and Minister are here because I'm also going to talk about this contract concerning genetic resources in agriculture and food, so it's important for the minister to be present here. As far as this law on agriculture and rural development is concerned, it is welcomed by the public very well-intentioned, with a desire to move something into agriculture and that indeed this agriculture that has been brought to the brink of destruction is beginning to work and that we have some improvement in our village. Of course, the debate was very transparent and we as an opposition party, we must say that we are very pleased with the 12 places you have passed, with some of the real things that you have respected, and even with some of our remarks that we have had on this incentive law. However, it is not the only period, in fact this period we hope will be at least as it was between 2000 and 2008 when the development of the village started to improve, when some improvement was seen in terms of both plant and animal production. Many family farms were then formed. In Vojvodina alone, about 120 farms were formed with over 50 cows, which is indeed one large number. Most households in central Serbia had between 15 and 20 cows. At the time, there were incentives, there was thinking that we had to do that. As Prime Minister, Dr Vojislav Kostunica at the time gave 7% to Vojvodina and what we have been hearing for months that 7% of Vojvodina does not win, she won during that period when Dr Vojislav Kostunica was prime minister. All of this has been contributed by the state, by the provision of incentives and we hope that these funds will be placed in the same way. Unfortunately, in 2008, we have a change of government and by then we have had numerous promises both by the minister and by the government, but a little shift has been made, so that many of the ministry's moves have not met expectations. There was a change in policy, of course, credit policy, and then a complication of development funds, and the process was stopped. Bad agricultural policy for four years has led to what we have produced, and we have imported. So we imported up to 100 tonnes of raw and processed milk, and Serbia can produce it. It can be said that the agrarian policy of the previous government and the rest of the ministry has created confusion in agriculture, that it has even more dissipated small and medium-sized producers and that in some ways the certainty in the agrarian has been reduced to, if we are to compare, casinos in Las Vegas, i.e. to changing the rules in subsidies during the production process, which was very bad for agriculture. All of this led to farmers spending more time on the roads, protesting, than in the fields they were supposed to determine, but to go back to the law ahead and say some of our remarks. The DSS's objections to this law are not great, but they are essential. The minister said in his exposé that the law should ensure that subsidies go into the right hands, to ensure predictability, the safety of agricultural production. We have one question, and you've talked about it, 15 members are regulated as follows -- the minister is closer to regulations in as many as 15 members. So, the minister is closer to regulations on what areas there are restrictions on the intensive development of agriculture, then, which kind of incentives are achieved in non-commercial family agricultural holdings, conditions and ways of achieving the right to a milk premium, how to exercise the right to basic incentives. For what kind of plant production, for which cultures and under what conditions can productive incentives be achieved? Conditions and means of exercising the rights to regression and credit, types of incentives for rural development, rural development, which is the maximum amount per user and per type of individual measure, how to exercise the right to specific incentives, etc.? How can producers go into production in this way, can certain and safe production be guaranteed that the minister is closer to regulation and how many sublegal acts do we have to bring in to make this work? So, at 15, probably 15 sublegal acts. What is it that's not good? It is that these sublaws cannot be adopted immediately. It'll take a while and the production can't stand. We have to start farming. That's why it's a tip that you might try somewhere not to be, that there's no sentence and that somehow it's regulated through this law. The next complaint from the DSS is that quality breeding material has been left out, both in cattle production and in pig farming. We think it's necessary for the male breeding throats to be put to death. It's mostly breast-feeding cows, dairy cows, and you don't have male breeding throats in any sentence. This law provides incentives for these cows to bypass breeding bulls. You told us that you put in an incentive for livestock, for fishing, which is very good, and we think that fishing is one of our major export branches and that it should be a large export branch and that it must have incentives. Passing by the large ponds located in Backo, first of all in the village of Moshorin you have hectares and hectares of ponds. A lot of them are closed. Many do not work, and the owners themselves are professors of the University and teach about fishing. Is it possible that people in the profession can't function in these ponds and work? In the whole proposal for a law on incentives, there's no mention of vegetable life. The promoter remembered, this is our observation, that the drills are agricultural land, but he forgot the entire vegetable production. I don't know if the gardeners are agricultural land. That doesn't sound like it. The fruit industry is mentioned only in Article 2, where the concepts of agricultural land and farmland are defined, that's all, isn't it? Our main agricultural product, and the raspberries are protesting on the street. Are we going to leave him without fruit growing or do we need to get him in? Of course, viticulture that is growing and needs to be taken into account as well. So our amendments go in favour of those small agricultural producers that are the basis of the total agrarian. Those with a small area of farmland and a relatively small number of cattle and such are 85% in Serbia. These people provide their market surpluses for domestic needs and especially for exports. Let's not forget that the only agrarian achieves a surplus in exports, and that trend should continue. We advocate to keep in mind that payments must go directly to producers, as much as possible to avoid the spillover of state resources invested through subsidies, in the pockets of those production organizers that are not intended, to distribute funds as quickly as possible and to reduce the possibility of malversion with these funds. It's also important to keep subsidies per hectare. We do not dispute the stimulating value of subsidies by production, but not now, when a small part of the land and agrarians is tycoonized and when the vast part is exhausted, destitute and on depleted property. Subsidies by production can be introduced when everyone has at least the same positions, i.e. start and when we settle the land law and strengthen small and medium-sized production with quality repromation and machinery. When we pass a quality law on cooperative association and restore the savings of a credit union, then we can compete in the yield. This way, whoever has more will get more from the state. For this reason, we believe that, in addition to this quality law, we need to work urgently on the law on cooperative association, and we ask ourselves who was not fit for this merger, that small and medium associations and organisations and who had the power to pass this important law on cooperative association for five years, through the preparation of laws and the fifth drafts. We hope that this ministry and this law will soon offer to the Assembly for adoption and that they will have more hearing for small and medium-sized producers. We also hope that, in addition to efforts to properly deploy the money, the Resord Ministry will take care of each taxpayer's dinar and will accompany the realization of the subsidies invested to end-users and expected results. The situation in agrarian has led to extreme borders, so we can no longer share in position or opposition, but we are all in the interest of the Ministry of Agriculture doing well. Carrying on such intentions, regardless of what we are the opposition, we are going out with several amendments, which are very important, in order to correct the law that is before us and with the hope that the resolution minister will very carefully consider and respect our amendments. In the end, since there were several colleagues who discussed this area of land in Vojvodina, I don't want much of it, one sentence. It's high time to break up with the bickering of the Republic and the provincial government. I'm talking about buying land from the United Arab Emirates, this looks like a shootout between DS and SNS. The Democratic Party of Serbia is also asking the ministry to deliver to the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management all contracts and proposals for contracts that are being prepared, which will be printed, so that we do not get into a situation where we think something is working under the grain. If you already think it's transparent, leave it to the board of directors, let them discuss it. I will continue my discussion on the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. Serbia signed the contract in 2002. We have waited 10 years, in 2012, for this contract to come to ratification, one very important contract that is being attached essentially to the numerous contracts Serbia has signed. The UN Conference, organised in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, presented the Convention on Biological Variety, and this Convention was signed by 198 states. Serbia was the 153rd state signatories and ratified it in 2001. Some 16 contracts signed and ratified by Serbia followed the Convention on Biological Variety. These are international agreements that detailed the issue of preserving biodiversity and which dealt with the use of genetic resources. This contract should not be mixed with GMOs. In that sense, I want to say a few words about the contract itself. Since the beginning of the world’s agricultural development, about 10,000 plant species have been used for food. Today, the majority of the human population uses only about 150 species, and of which 12 species give 70% of the diet. When we look further, rice, corn, wheat, and potatoes provide about 50% of the food. So we're down to five to 12 products that we use in our diet. Since there has been an accelerated, careful, of 10,000 accelerated erosions of biodiversity in nutrition and genetic resources, awareness of the need to preserve this valuable genetic resource has awakened. I don't think this is just about the Department of Agriculture. I think these contracts should be largely dealt with by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, in one and the other ministry that partially covers these parts. It is also important to point out that Serbia is one of the centres of biodiversity and that, for the sake of comparison, 11,000 species are growing across Europe, and in Serbia we have a third of the total European fund. More than 3.5 thousand plant species are growing in Serbia. This is also caused by a historical factor and various other factors, icy age. We are in southern Europe, protected from the disappearance of these species. But when you look at Germany has 2,000 species, England has about 1700 species and Serbia about 3,500 plant species, then it is indeed a great wealth with which we can wave what Serbia has in the EU. Many of these species can be used both in agriculture, in medicine, as in medicinal plants, in the processing profession, where we can, for example. Let's do it, because we're a steppe area, insemination of drought resistance with many species that are in nature and that are growing in our home automatically. Serbia is one of the biological diversity centres with a biodiversity index of 0.718. It is our national interest to preserve this and to revitalize and enrich it. As for one interesting thing, among these species, among those 3,500 species, it is very important why to preserve. We in Serbia had five species that disappeared from the world flora. In the Red Book, when you look at it, there were five species in Serbia that were once present in our territory. You don't have them all over the world today. Not to mention the species that are in the extreme line of disappearance and that are very interesting. Therefore, the public of Serbia should be concerned because the state of Serbia in 2010 has not singled out a single dinar for the purpose of preserving biodiversity, zero dinars for the preservation of biodiversity. We need to worry because we don't have developed legislation and a coherent strategy, so we don't know what our right hand is doing or what our left hand is doing. We need to worry that our excellently prepared Department of Genetic Resources in Batajnica is sounding empty and that we have two men guarding this department and that there is no one there, and 20 years ago it's very well imagined that all of our genetic resources are being placed there and kept there. We've got the building, we've got the space. It sounds empty with two men guarding it. The state must therefore be more active, more strongly committed to preserving biodiversity, especially genetic resources that have potential value. Politicians who decide, and among them all here, we should have enough knowledge and awareness about this to be very important national resources. The public should follow this area, not only to monitor GMOs, but also to what we have as resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10565	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorized representatives, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10566	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today are on the agenda of two laws and several conventions, the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, the Law amending the Law on Air Protection and, as I said, several conventions. First, I'm going to say something about the Law of Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. The Democratic Party cannot support the law in this version. I'm not saying he's very bad, but he's bad. And from the fact that the government will have heard of our amendments, that will be the DS's relationship to this law. What is the purpose of this law? I'm asking the Minister and myself a question. Was he necessary at this point? In his opening statement, the minister said it was better to have any law than not to have any law. I would remind the minister that we have this area governed by the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, that a particular chapter applies to incentives. Of course, every government has its own policy, including in the area of agriculture and not the disputed fact that the government could change that part of the law through amendments and additions, but then we would have one law that would in a comprehensive way regulate the area of agriculture and rural development, so there would be incentives and it would certainly be easier for our farmers to get along in one law, to read the provisions in one law, than if we had two laws in one area. However, this law may aim to promote, among other things, a new government policy, i.e. the ministry, to establish some discontinuity with regard to previously-led agriculture policy, and then it is something else, then it is one story for voters, for farmers, in order to present to them something that this law does not actually pass. That's why he's bad for us. Perhaps we should also in some way cloud the story that is very current these days, and as far as sales are concerned, renting. Five minutes ago, I had this prenup in my hands and I couldn't read it, so I don't know what's in it. It is just a key problem and a key observation, a key comment of the DS in the fact that this business of selling agricultural land, the lease is non-transparent. How economically, legally problematic he is, this should be determined. In order to determine that, a particular debate should be brought about, as farmers would certainly be interested, both in Vojvodina and in other parts of Serbia, and the country is the resource that you have or do not have, which is in your possession or not in your possession, and in that sense is a serious objection to the non-transparency of this process. In that sense, I believe that today's law, or debate on it, should draw attention to this very serious topic. This privatisation process, or the lease, we could talk for a very long time. You're saying that this theme will be in the Assembly as a special topic, as a ratification. From what I've seen, the parties to this contract are state and private. I'm not sure how one such contract can enter the Assembly for ratification, but about that afterwards. I don't want to talk about this anymore, because I agree that it can be the subject of a special assembly debate. However, I can't help but look at the fact that someone mentioned today that they were agricultural goods, that the country was privatised, by Saric, and I don't know who not everything in the previous period, accusing the government in which the DS participated. I will remind everyone that the largest number of privatisations has been realised since 2003-2007 and that the DS was not in power during that period. Procedure against... (President: Mr. Veselinović, please return to the topic, given that what you are talking about was the subject of parliamentary questions. Let's go back to this part of the agenda, though. ) Chairman, Minister Knezevic has addressed you with the aim of terminating my debate. You listened to him. I only said one sentence, that I'd look back at... (President: Minister Knezevic didn't speak to me about it at all. Please don't, because you couldn't hear what he told me. )......................................................................................................... After that address, you set out to interrupt me. So, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and I will end up with this topic, I will return to the law, just because it was mentioned today – the government of Mirko Cvetkovic is going into account in the famous "Balkan Warrior" action against the Darko Saric clan. During that period, the Law on the confiscation of property acquired by organised crime was passed. That land and property was returned to the state. So much for that, and thank you for letting me say that. On the other hand, when it comes to the law itself and what the DS cannot support in that form, Mr. Minister, is for the following reasons. You have provided in the law that 5% of the Republic of Serbia's budget goes for incentives, that is, agriculture. I think it's small and it could be 6%-7%, and we could or may not agree on that. As far as I know, this year's budget is projected 4, 6-4.7% and I don't know how you're going to comply with this bill with the budget already passed and the Budgetary System Act? I mean, what do I mean? I don't think this is a matter for the law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. In fact, a lower law, to call it the legal force, enters the matter of the Budgetary System Act. Under this principle, the Law on Education, Science, etc. would provide for percentages for the participation of these areas in the Republic of Serbia's budget. I'm saying again that I don't mind having that amount defined, but I don't think it's a place here. The fundamental observation is the fact that you were talking about, I would say affirmatively, which is that the government no longer has that much authority in the area of agriculture and rural development. I wouldn't agree with that. We had no agreement with the DSS parliamentary group, and they pointed that out a little while ago, and I would say that is the opposite, that the minister, or the ministry now, has a serious opportunity to influence and create a policy of incentives. The law itself, i.e. the legislator, is missing the opportunity to edit some areas in more detail, and therefore each chapter ends with – closer to terms, ways and patterns, will arrange or bring the ministry. Therefore, the ministry's intervention in this regard has not been reduced, i.e. I believe that it has been kind of verified and it has been confirmed that the ministry will be the one to bring unforeseeable incentives through sublegal acts, for which it will take time again, and what farmers will know what measures the ministry will carry out. However, the key lack of this law, I would say, is the fact that agricultural land is not stimulated. In fact, this law stipulates that the right to incentives is also for farmers who process the country and those who do not process it. In that sense, Minister, please, we have submitted amendments, to make it precise, to be complemented, by providing that the right to incentives should only be given to farmers who do so. Our goal, and I hope your goal, is not to keep the country in parloga, not to process it. Our goal is certain that the country is being processed and that it is imperative not only of this law, but of all the laws that apply to this area, and that there is an obligation for farmers to process the country. Another serious regret is the uncertainty stemming from serious powers received by the ministry, i.e. the minister, in terms of the incentive measure. We are not quite sure what will be written in these sublegal acts, who will be entitled to incentives, therefore, entities that will have the right to incentives and are said to be – physical, legal persons. Yes, it's all true, but we don't know what kind of plant will have an incentive that won't. On the other hand, I believe that certain plant species should have a greater incentive, other plant species a smaller incentive, etc., in order to stimulate plant species that correspond to serious state policy. This law is passed for an indefinite period. I don't think that's good. This law should be limited until 2014, when the EU will adopt its strategy in the area of agriculture and rural development. Then we should create a new policy, which would be adapted to the EU and to the trends in the agricultural product market. In that sense, I also believe that the fixed amount in the dinars can be devoid of inflation, which is very serious today, which in the next period will probably be similar to what is currently under the government's control and that a thousand dinars for, say, raising pigs will eat the price of gas, that ten pigs will go for gas, ten pigs will go for electricity – is that right, Madam Minister? So, in that sense, I don't think fixing these amounts is good. Mr. Minister, it's unclear and who's going to have the right to incentive? Now I'm going back to the subjects, but also to the plant species. I'm asking you a question on behalf of a fruit farmer from Srem. Do I, behold, am I that fruit treer, going to have the right to encourage ten acres of apple, pears, no matter, or raspberries in other parts of Serbia? You can't read that from this law. Will I have greater incentives if I cover you up and on a smaller part I'm addicted to clouds and what falls from the sky? Will I, as someone who wants to grow vines, have incentives? The fruit industry is in a totally uncertain position. You can't see it from this law. It may be clear to you, but I don't understand it, and these people certainly can't be clear. In this regard, there is a need for special clarification. Will someone have incentives if they want to raise a livestock slaughterhouse, etc.? There is no question about rural tourism. Without a more complex approach to the development of a village that will include all aspects, and not everyone wants and doesn't know that they are engaged in pig farming, they don't know and they don't want everyone to grow any other plant or animal species. Maybe someone wants to deal with rural tourism. Maybe he wants to do some other business. Do you know what a European village looks like? Every house is a small factory. Someone's making healthy food. Someone deals with rural tourism, receives guests and sells agricultural products. He deals with what he knows. This prevents the outflow from the villages to the cities and thus the villages become as attractive as the cities. I think you dropped this area. In an amendment sense, we've reacted and I'm asking you to keep that in mind. On the other hand, I think you should maximise the amount of funds given through incentives. In one article, you said that after 20 million, the incentives are reduced proportionally. I don't think that's good in this limited budget. We don't have enough resources in the budget for everyone to be satisfied, and tycoons, as you call them, both smaller and medium-sized producers. I believe maximum subsidies should be limited. Let's say 20 million is the upper limit some farmer, whether physically or legally, can get as an incentive. I believe that the subjects who exercise the rights to greater incentives, whether they are our citizens, was Kostic, whether Matijević or Sheik, do not have such an interest in what the interest of a small and small producer is. We can't put them in the same basket. In this regard, I believe that you should have nominally limited the maximum amount of incentives and thus put them in a more favourable position for small and medium-sized agricultural producers. Something about the other law is not less important, but which is united in this debate, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Air Protection Act. I think we've taken several very wrong steps, or government, above all by abolishing the Ecology Fund. All funds are directed to the RS budget. The use of these funds would not say that it is non-transparent, but they go for all purposes and at least for ecology. The refund of polluting fees for local self-government has been lifted by 40% and local self-government will now be unable to fulfil the environmental and air protection tasks expected of them. I have information that most air pollution measurement devices are not serviced or in poor condition. I have information that less resources are invested in key things when it comes to environmental protection. In this regard, I also call on the minister to find a way to use funds collected to protect the environment for the purpose of protecting the environment. The Democratic Party will deal with these laws in this regard. If you respect our key amendments, it would certainly improve these laws and in some ways change our opinion that we now have under these laws, but they are essential agricultural producers and the benefits they will benefit from these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10567	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10568	Your Honor, what you've been saying about the Environment Fund has absolutely nothing to do with the amendments and additions to the Air Act, but regardless, of course I will answer you about the Environmental Protection Fund. On this occasion, I can say that all documents from the Environmental Protection Fund will be submitted to the D.A.'s office in the next 10 days. This does not mean that those commitments made under the contracts will not be met, but the public will be informed of the exact date and all 1,500 contracts, of which there are indications that at least half of the contract has serious problems will be subject to the prosecution. I fully agree with you that many devices were not serviced and that at least environmental protection was cared for, and the Environmental Protection Fund existed precisely because of this. When you talk about local self-government, we at the Ministry are very aware that there have been different ways of purpose in the local self-government of what is called – money intended to protect the environment. I would have to go back to the changes and additions of the Air Protection Act on this occasion, because today we are doing and changing within this law in fact, it is intended to bring in the shortest possible period in the next two years what the previous Government did not bring, and it had an obligation, and that is, for example, a strategy for air protection, a national programme for the gradual reduction of annual maximum national emissions. These are all the things that had to be brought without talking about six regulations that had to be passed in 2011. I understand your concern probably related to the Environmental Protection Fund and all those contracts that have been concluded in different ways. I believe that the authorities will give the last word about it, but I would also like you to understand how important the environment really is, and not to talk about it in the media, as it was in the previous period, but to truly make us live in a healthy environment, that we have the quality air that we breathe.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10569	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10570	Minister, you're very diabolical. I asked you about the funds now going into the Republic of Serbia's budget. You're telling me about the contracts of the Environmental Protection Fund. I don't regret the removal of the Environment Fund, nor did I ask you that. I am interested – is the funds that go into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which are purposely collected to protect the environment, will it be spent on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for the protection of the environment? In the morning when I wake up in Novi Sad, I see black snow, not white. That's what I'm curious about. This interests the citizens of Serbia, Novi Sad, Pancheva, etc. The snow when it falls, after 24 hours, it's black. It has to do with changing and supplementing air protection laws. In that sense, I think we should talk about issues that citizens are interested in. I don't mind putting every contract on the table in the past, investigating, etc. I don't have any problems in that sense. I ask you, will you take measures, in the second part of your answer, you said that you would, that would correct these things that are a problem, which is to be invested for the purposes that are necessary, not to talk about environmentalism in a broader sense. I had no political tendency to criticize you for the reasons of criticism, but to ask questions – how will these funds be used?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10571	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10572	So I understand that there was no policy here and that this is just about air quality and quality of the environment. What proved in the previous period was that it was not taken into account. That snow you're talking about isn't the work of this government, it's the result of the previous government and all the money. Between five and seven billion were in that fund and were meant to be in a healthy environment. The budget law and the withdrawal of the Fund is centralized in terms of the budget, and we, as a ministry, have projects that will certainly be funded in a way that together with the Finance Ministry we make payments, i.e. to ensure that certain environmental projects are implemented. I had to give you an extra answer. This is part two. I think the public of Serbia, and you, too, should be informed. It's not a good state of the environment, and the money, believe me, was too much, and the result is what it is that when we talk about emissions of harmful substances, we have several times more than all the countries in the region. So, what was going on in the previous period?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10573	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break that will last until 3:15 p.m. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Having obtained working conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of Members of the People in the National Assembly to the vacant seats, in order to enable them to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given the RIK's decision to assign MPs to fill the seats in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate have been met with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate for MPs Vladimir Gordic, Jovanka Petrovic and Dragan Andric, elected from the election list for a better life – Boris Tadic. On the basis of the decision of the RIK, the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, as referred to in Article 27(5). Law on the election of MPs, I find confirmation of the mandate for MPs Vladimir Gordic, Jovanka Petrovic and Dragan Andric. I call upon the MPs to approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MPs repeat after it. ) I swear to uphold the duty of the National Envoy in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil liberties and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. Congratulations to the MPs. Please approach the signing of the oath. People's MPs sign the oath. We continue to work. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10575	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the PUPS believes that the set of these laws that we are discussing today is very important because it addresses issues and problems in various areas of life and work. I am sorry that today I may not be able to speak on the basis of the principles and principles declared by our famous Prince Milos, who has given his legislators the task of writing laws in the language of the people. These laws today will be understandable if we consult Wuyaklia or any other literature. There's something I'd like to talk to you about the Law on Incentives of Agriculture and Rural Development. Agricultural rural areas play an important role in the production development of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the process of implementing reforms and transitions, as well as that this economic area will have a significant impact on the country's overall economic movements in the coming period. The importance of agriculture is not identical in all stages of development, but is subject to constant changes in time. Viewing changes in the development of agriculture should be a function of effective functioning of the rural area, and traditional agriculture, as a backbone of rural development, should be placed in an integral rural development. One of our goals is to make it a commitment to follow the European path and European principles, as well as to respect the definition of those who have gone far ahead in the development of agriculture and villages, while respecting the specificities and the achieved level of development of EU countries. Our achieved reach in the development of agriculture is insufficient due to the fact that agriculture throughout the development has been neglected business activity, as well as its small share in the creation of a social product, due to the enormous weaknesses of agrarian policy which lacked a complex approach to solving agrarian problems, i.e. short-term orientations of action from case to case and the country's invisible economic position. The adoption of this law will create favourable conditions for budget planning and then for the implementation of the measures for each budget period, as well as the possibility of increasing those amounts through the government act. Certain types of incentives for organic production, regression and premium, crop insurance, fruits, multi-annual plantations, plantations and animals, as well as support for rural development will contribute to the improvement of agriculture and villages in general. That's why this bill should be supported when voting. I would only point out that, according to the record, 44% of Serbia's population lives in the country, i.e. in rural conditions or in this modern language -- in the rural part of the country. In particular, I would refer to the Nisaw region, or Nis as a city. Nis has 92 inhabited places that cover, of which 70 populated villages are rural types, which means that this law would probably encourage this population to increase rurally, or rurally, and thus contribute to better living conditions for all of us. The second law I would discuss is the law on amendments to the Air Protection Act. Compared to the 2009 Air Protection Act, these amendments and additions to the law, in a comprehensive way, the Republic of Serbia regulates and provides a system for protecting and improving the environment. The way to organize and control the implementation of air quality protection and improvement, as natural values, is of general interest and enjoys special protection. The amendments and additions of certain members, in particular Articles 2 and 3 thereof, have amended the powers to adopt sublegal acts which prescribe a more detailed regulation of this area. The amendments of individual members regulated by Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 have also given the Government the mandate to adopt sublegal acts governing the reduction of the consumption of substances that damage the ozone layer, as well as the obligations of certain natural and legal persons, in terms of obtaining and renewing certain certificates for working in these areas. The bill planned funds to fund air quality protection and air quality improvements and provided them from the Republic of Serbia's budget and local self-government budgets, which is particularly good because this requires local self-government to think directly about this part of environmental protection. As an important element of this law, Article 10 provides for the adoption of an air protection strategy to be adopted by 1 January 2015. I deeply believe that this strategy will not go as the other 78 strategies, only on paper, but that because of all of us, this strategy will contribute to living in a healthier world and a healthier environment. During the application of the Air Protection Act, the sublegal rules necessary for its implementation will be adopted. Sublegal acts defining concrete measures are the basis for the successful implementation of a specific law or strategy. Law confirming the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. We've heard a little bit today about other laws that are part of this set of laws that we're considering today, but I'm going to try to say a little bit about all the laws, so that we know what it's about. This law confirms the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, adopted in November 2001 at the Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations FAO. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia signed an international agreement on plant genetic resources on 1 October 2002 at the initiative of the Federal Institute for Plant and Animal Genetic Resources. We today need to confirm this contract aimed at preserving and sustainable use of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture and fair and equal distribution of the benefits arising from their use. This contract concerns plant genetic resources for food and agriculture. This Treaty obliges each Contracting Party to comply with its laws, regulations and procedures with the obligations provided for in this Treaty. So, after confirming this international treaty, we are obliged to coordinate our legislative parts on this matter as a state. The next law in today's debate is the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on the Protection and Sustainable Use of Biological and Predetermined Variety with the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of Karpat, adopted in Kiev on 22 May 2003. This law confirms the Protocol on the Protection of Sustainable Development, just adopted in Kiev on 22 May 2003. A protocol on protection and sustainable use from biodiversity and landscape with the Karpat Framework Convention on the Protection of Sustainable Development, adopted at the second meeting of the Conference held in Bucharest on 19 June 2008. This Protocol provides for strengthening the cooperation of Member States in the conservation, restoration, maintenance and sustainable use of natural and semi-natural habitats. In addition to the general measures, the Protocol also contains a whole series of provisions concerning specific measures to be taken by the Contracting States on this plan, as well as implementing, monitoring and evaluation provisions. This speaks of the need for cross-border co-operation and joint efforts aimed at achieving objectives and activities towards protection and sustainable development. The next law that is under discussion today is the law on the validation of the Protocol on Water and Health with the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes. This law today confirms the Protocol on Water and Health with the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes, made up of 17 June 1999 in London. In 2010, the Republic of Serbia ratified the Convention on the Protection and Use of Cross-border Waterways and International Lakes. Ratification of this protocol is important from the point of view of the fact that the Republic of Serbia is rich in natural water springs and that it has developed and preserved an ecosystem. The Protocol aims to promote the protection of human health at all levels, as well as to support sustainable development through ecosystem protection and water supply, prevention, control and reduction of water-related diseases. Also, the aim of this Protocol is to provide access to drinking water for everyone and to ensure rehabilitation, rehabilitation for everyone under integrated water systems aimed at sustainable use of water resources, the quality of surrounding waters and the protection of surrounding ecosystems. The last law in this debate is today's first, it is the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Member States of the Southeast European Health Network on an arrangement with the host country on the headquarters of the Southeast European Health Network Secretariat. This law also confirms this agreement between the Member States of the South-Eastern European Health Network on an arrangement with the host country on the South-Eastern European Health Network Secretariat, which was signed in Tirana on 9 November 2010. The Southeast European Health Network is a joint initiative of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia. It shows from this network that Serbia is taking up a central geographical position, which gives it in particular some specificity in co-operation with the environment. The regional organisation was formed in the 2001 Dubrovnik Charter by the World Health Organisation with the aim of improving Member States' co-operation as well as improving the health status of residents of the Southeast Serbian region. The member states signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the future of the Southeast European Health Network in April 2009 in the context of the Southeast European co-operation process. According to the 2005 Skopje Charter, the secretariat as the administrative body of the health network will be based in Skopje, the Republic of Macedonia. Confirmation of this agreement contributed to the health network allowing Serbia certain positions in Southeast Europe. After this debate and debate in particular and the possible improvement of certain laws that can be improved through the amendments, the PUPS Group will support all these laws and will vote for the adoption of a set of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10576	Dear People's MPs, you have received the resignation of MP Ivica Tonchev as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this item, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and I propose that the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(3) and Article 4 of the same law determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the time on which it was elected, MP Ivica Tonchev, on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. We're going back to work. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has a folk MP, Neven Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10577	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, distinguished representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, as it is in today's order of several laws, and the time for discussion is very limited, I will be based primarily on the Bill's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Air Protection, but at first I will look at the proposal for a law on promotions in agriculture and rural development where I really want to welcome the measures to encourage organic production and therefore commend the ministry for giving our Serbian agricultural producers a chance to position themselves on the market for organic food that is everywhere in the world in current expansion and thus give a chance for economic recovery. I will also take advantage of the opportunity that Mr. Knezevic is present to thank him for answering my parliamentary question on the infected corn and for expressing my hope and desire for such good communication to take place in the future and continue. With another small appeal, that if there is a possibility that the Environment Protection Committee will also receive a timely report on what is going on in this matter so that we can perform our parliamentary post, which is monitoring the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Single Serbia Parliament Club will vote in favour of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Air Protection, for a simple and simple reason because it is more detailed, more comprehensive and applicable than the current, applicable law adopted in May 2009 under the Environment Protection Act set. We believe that the issue of environmental protection is of paramount importance and that it is in close correlation with what we, as JS, are combating air and proven, which is metaphorically said, the healing of our people through an increase in birth, because we believe that only through the achievement of the results in this field Serbia has reason to continue progress in other, different directions. Personally, I think that the only fight Serbia should think about is a struggle that restores the population or at least leads that way, which is exactly the fight against the white plague. To return to the topic, what concerns me, and it can be learned from the 2011 Air Quality Report, is that air in Serbia's largest cities: Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Boru was third category, i.e. that tolerance values are exceeded for one or more polluting substances. The truth is that this excessive air pollution came from an industry that still lives in these cities, which is the good side of this medal, but we can't treat one part of the problem and let another escalate. So Serbia is currently a country that is in the third category of air pollution, which means that its people are not breathing clean and healthy air. So, we believe, Unique Serbia believes that this problem should be dealt with in more detail, because we want to create healthy conditions in which we will live and where our children will grow up. What concerns me further, after the not so bright results of the report, is that there's a possibility that the next report might not be. On the committee responsible, we had the opportunity to hear that from the moment the Environment Fund was abolished, it was impossible to maintain all the stations for automatic air control, and that if that trend continues, we would have 30% less data than needed 90 and that the report itself would not be possible to realise. But I sincerely believe in the promise made by the representatives of the competent ministry on the same committee, that this will not happen and that all the consequences that the Fund's abolition, or the reconstruction of the Environment Fund, will be overcome and mechanisms for financing environmental projects will be found, and therefore also to finance automatic air quality monitoring stations. The good things that this bill gives us are the corrections of errors currently in the current law that are important in my opinion and are not just technical in nature, as we see in Article 1, which is changing Article 37 and Article 2 where, for the reference year for the quantified assessment of measures and policies, it was taken in 2000, which was not in line with EU requirements, which is now changing and correcting and taking place in 1990. By adopting this law, we will also create good legal conditions for the adoption of sublaws that will enable this law and greater application, which is a major shift compared to the 2009 law. Once again, one of the main reasons why the Single Serbia Parliament Club will vote for this law with an appeal, of course, the most well-intentioned, is that the ministry finds appropriate instruments to maintain the air quality check system as soon as possible, because without that and similar systems created to monitor the quality of life conditions above all, in our environment, we cannot go through the creation of a healthy Serbia, which, of course, is of interest to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10578	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10579	Dear fellow MPs, Mr. Minister, the chairman, all who have spoken so far, have underlined that this law is extremely important. However, that is not what 190 MPs of this home who are absent at the moment, and this law regarding not only those who produce food work in agriculture, but also consumers, of all Serbian citizens, because agriculture is the most important renewable economic branch of the country. I also resent the heads of Parliament clubs for not making sure they participate in this very important debate. This is as far as I know for eight years how to talk and lead a policy of incentives for the faster development of agriculture. When we make a balance and draw a line, then we can see different results. We have smaller cattle, especially cattle. We do not, as we know, have enough drowned cattle to meet the 8000 tonnes preferential quota for the European market. We don't have as much milk as our dairy can take, process into cheeses, acid-milk drinks. We're importing loaded pigs. We don't have lamb meat to export to Islamic countries, and there are, I know very well, demands and opportunities to sell these goods that would be grown, produced in those poor mountain-mounted areas of this country. We have plenty of water, and we have huge drought damages that have not been officially estimated, but it is likely that the sum of two billion euros is damage in 2012 etc. This law is also important because it will be written and engaged, because those who apply it, and they are called the Agency for Agricultural Payments and other institutions at the Ministry of Agriculture, will make decisions that are at least ridiculous. Toma Peric from Zemun polje, somewhere along the way to Batajnica has been rejected because he has no right to charge and receive money, a premium for drowned June, because it was taken in 2011, and has arrived for delivery of 600kg in 2013. Whoever wrote that law or that provision doesn't know the elemental thing, that one calf to up to 600 kilograms must live for at least 13 months to gain that weight that is today commercial, common. Dragica Petakovic from Klenka planted half a hectare of 4,700 pears. It is the densest pears in Serbia ever made by similar models in Italy, but it did not get a single penny for the seedlings she bought in Italy because in some regulation, the regulation says there should be 2,500 seedlings on the hectare. Not to mention Miroslav Gavric, from Subotica, who was rejected from his right to encourage because he had brought his request in person, handed it over to the counter. It is said that only those sent by mail are taken into account, and the official of the Agrarian Payments Authority received it from him and gave him confirmation, instead of having sent it and said it – friend, go to the post office, and do so. Therefore, it is very important that this law is to avoid the possibility of double, ambiguous interpretations that can only confuse, damage citizens and at the same time reduce the reputation of the ministry, the minister and the government themselves. I think every law should target the weak points, so that the state we're not satisfied with changes. What's a weak spot for us? First, we have about 500,000 acres. However, that information was not officially measured anywhere. Infertile land where nothing is born... (President: Mr. Trnavcević, you're out of time.) You have the right to speak for five minutes. All right, then I'm gonna speed up, just say two, three more important things that got me up to talk about. One refers to the milk premium. I suggest that Article 15 deletes "1500 and 3000 liters of milk", to just say – milk premium is paid for extra class milk and thus will achieve what is bad, weak point today, which is that people apply hygiene to husbands and that we have extra class milk without somatic cells and microorganisms. Another bad provision is in Article 13, where local self-government is forbidden to give direct payments. There are three-stage farming incentive systems everywhere – local, regional and federal, it is in Austria, Germany, etc. I'm for it to be encouraged and to continue, and to delete it accordingly, this word "can't." It's simple, everyone can, because the Srlig municipality, whose authority and warrant I'm talking about here, had to increase the premium by five dinars in addition to the seven dinar premium in 2012 to keep people alive. Why? A kilo of hay has grown to 30 dinars, and without those five dinars, there would be another drop in the number of cows, etc. One more thing to say. Thank you for this discount. Article 30 where credit support is referred to, as I propose, Mr. Minister, regressed interest and credit support should be one of the main instruments of the Government, of your ministry and of this law. Why? So we wake up people's interest in investing their money with a favourable loan, where interest will be regressed, but not 6.5% as imagined, but somewhere around 3% and then they'll be held accountable. Then there'll be less abuse, less surveillance and everything else we have to take care of today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10580	Thank you. I ask you to limit your exposure to five minutes in time for the other MPs. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10581	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the Honorable President-in-Office of Serbia, I would like to agree with colleagues who spoke before me, that this is one of the most important laws that can be discussed in this high house and one of the most important problems that this high house needs to discuss and pass a law that will regulate the issue of agriculture and the issue of fostering agriculture. So far, we have largely witnessed that in election campaigns that politicians run into the peasants, orans, stables and all where people deal with agricultural production and afterwards, until the next election, nothing remains but those promises that no one fulfills. As a parliamentary group, we believe that this is a very good step for the government in regulating and creating an atmosphere of stability and security, primarily for agricultural producers in Serbia. The scope of the incentives in agriculture and rural development has so far been largely regulated by government regulations or other sublaws, resulting in non-consistency in applications and thus the uncertainty and unpredictability of the planning of agricultural production. Without serious planning of agricultural production, there is neither serious production nor serious results. It devastates every type of production. Thus, the untapped use of the good part of Serbia's agricultural potential was very noticeable and we today have devastated agricultural production. This law finally systemically prescribes and defines all kinds of incentives in agriculture, without which agriculture cannot survive as well as conditions for the exercise of the right to encourage and use them. The regulation of this area is absolutely necessary to ensure that agricultural producers are informed in time of the possibility of subsidising their production by the state, which should lead to an increase in the volume of agricultural production, as well as an improvement in the quality of agricultural products, of course, because the country's and agricultural producers' relationship with this law will be very clear, rights and obligations to each other, because agricultural production must be far-reaching and invested in far-reaching routes. I must say again that it is incomprehensible that this very important area is not in the previous transition period, let's say since 2000, regulated by law, but, I said, they have largely been in force by various regulations so far. They were quickly brought and also quickly ceased to be valid and thus created an atmosphere of uncertainty in agricultural production. I particularly point out this because the following data are taken into account, which manifest a huge proportion between the funds invested in agriculture and the newly created values in this agricultural branch. The participation of the total agricultural budget in the Republic of Serbia's budget in the past 10 years averages only 4.21%. On the other hand, agrobusiness in general participates in the creation of a social product with over 20%. It is even more striking that agriculture with the food industry represents the only branch of the Serbian economy that has since 2005 been achieving a surplus in the external trade since 2005, because agricultural participation with the food industry in the total exports of the Republic of Serbia 21% and total imports less than 7%. In doing so, the structure of such exports continues to be dominated by primary agricultural products compared to those with a higher degree of processing, leaving a huge space for further improvement in this area. Of course, and certainly encourage the development of new industrial branches. It is clear from the above that the state has finally had to deal with the regulation of the area in agriculture in order to gain predictability, stability and consistency in the coming period of the agricultural policy of the Republic of Serbia. That I do not particularly stress the fact that this law represents a step towards harmonising Serbia's agrarian policy with the EU's common agricultural policy, which should, in the longer term, be prepared by our agricultural producers for a legal framework that will become fully relevant in this area by gaining full EU membership. Also, in this way, the state can plan the budget needed to realise the measures of agrarian policy in the coming period in the longer term. By doing so, contracts are allowed to be planned in the long run, obligations, contractual obligations, deliveries are also provided that they can be planned in the longer run. About 450 thousand owners were registered in the agricultural land register, which is slightly more than half the total number of landowners in the Republic of Serbia. In view of this impressive number, I think it is very good that Article 6 of this Law defines the difference between commercial and non-discriminatory family agricultural land, which is again the result of the suggestion, as I understood in the extensive debate, and this solution should contribute to the fair and non-discriminatory treatment of all agricultural land. In this respect, the equalisation of natural persons with legal persons, i.e. entrepreneurs, should also be noted that the law stipulates that the minister is closer to determining the types of incentives that non-commercial family agricultural holdings can achieve. I think in this way, in fact, dealing with agricultural production and the possibility of serious and stable income in agricultural production would be a real stimulating measure for opening and new jobs. Someone will see their future and the future of their family right in this kind of business. Article 4 provides that the Government has a period of 30 days from the date of entry into force of the Budget Act to prescribe the volume of assets as well as the maximum amounts of incentives which absolutely contributes to predictability and the possibility of timely planning of production in agriculture. Article 9 provides that the funds achieved on the basis of incentives cannot be the subject of natural enforcement, which is also a good solution, which goes towards improvement of production, while Article 10 specifies that the user of the incentive is obliged to use these funds solely for the purpose to which they are allocated. So strictly dedicated to sanctioning different actions, in this way both sides are protected. Both sides will have mutual business respect. Article 12 provides that under the annual work reports, the Ministry of Agriculture submits an annual report to the Government on the situation in agriculture in the previous calendar year, so-called "Green Book." It is also one of the newspapers that we welcome and we believe that this way agriculture and agricultural producers will come into the public interest, through the media, in the way they deserve it and in the way that agriculture will favour, at this point as one of our basic economic branches. Article 13 distinguishes the competences of the AP authorities, i.e. the units of local self-government and the republican authorities with regard to establishing support measures for the implementation of the agricultural policy. In doing so, the law stipulates that this programme at the site cannot be contrary to national programmes. Article 16 provides that a legal person, i.e. an entrepreneur, is obliged to transform, within three days of the payment of the funds, the beneficiary of the milk premium, i.e. the primary producer exercising this right through that legal person, i.e. the entrepreneur, and the criminal provisions provide for sanctions for non-compliance with this deadline. This type of cash commitment tool is very stimulating for manufacturers. Article 22 of the provision in paragraph 3 provides for abuses in the case of incentives for suckler cows. Article 31 provides for a percentage reduction in the payment of direct payments if, on a number of different grounds, the right to receive an incentive in absolute amount, which goes beyond the law of the defined limit value and thus amortises the pressure on the budget and contributes to a more balanced total distribution of the payment of incentives. Special newspapers are members from 32nd to 38th. The incentives for rural development measures, whose main goal is to improve the quality of life of the entire rural community, which, regardless of the dramatic migration movement, still accounts for about 44% of the total population in the Republic of Serbia. In particular, I would like to emphasise Article 35(1) point 4), which provides for funds to compensate for missing profits as a consequence of the implementation of good agricultural practice, animal welfare and overall conservation of the environment. As a consequence of the initiatives adopted, the public debate on draft laws and the solution in Article 33, which respects the specificities of agricultural production in certain areas and regions with reduced working conditions, as well as the provisions of Article 15(3), which are subject to the right to a milk premium in those areas being double-reliefed to the rest of the country. These members should be further elaborated in the course of acceptance, submission and interpretation of amendments, complemented and made this law even more quality compared to the text that is before us. All in all, as I have noted, such a law would be absolutely necessary, I think it is well done, which does not mean that one number of extremely quality amendments should not be accepted and will contribute to raising the scope and quality of agricultural production. The NS MP group will, as a party that, according to its programme definition, highly respects the Serb village and the Serb host, as a fundamental and unfortunately largely gnawed substance of the state, in the day of the vote, support the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10582	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10583	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPO has long awaited this law because it was really high time for something on this subject to be found in the House of Commons. We have long formed our party Committee for the Development of Agriculture, whose manager is Dr Nada Kosanovic from Martinac to Sremska Mitrovica and we have brought a whole series of strategies and action plans that can sometimes be useful to the minister and the ministry. What we expected from this law is already precision. We expected many problems that were in the country to regulate this law in a better way and in more detail. Without the pathetics that the Serbian farmer is a feeder and defender, he is in a really difficult situation today. It is a very difficult demographic situation in Serbian villages. The villages are devastated, the households are old, the machinery is old. The average age of the tractor is over 15 years. In EU countries, 130 dollars per agricultural producer is invested annually, and with us 29. We cannot be competitive on the European market with such a state strategy. The stock fund is at the level of the Serbian Princess's Stock Fund. Today Serbia has between 12% and 15% of the vineyard area, compared to areas planted under the Kingdom of Serbia. The Kingdom of Serbia, with its strategy and the Principality of Serbia, was a state and a half for the country in which we now live. EU villages have their own homes of health, nursing homes, primary and secondary schools, tourist organisations, rural development centres, and with us villages are shut down, abandoned, neglected, etc. The main reason is the absence of a state strategy, the absence of a serious long-term strategy and the state vision of aid to agriculture. We have a huge water potential, and we only water 2% of the surface, which proves we have no idea what nature has given us. We have unfavourable and insufficient loans, over-indebted farmers, poor livestock production, undeveloped cooperative sector. The Netherlands and Denmark products, one farmer produces food for 140 consumers, and we produce for six or seven. What is healthy food and the enormous potential of Serbia? Well, the future of Serbia. Will this law solve many problems? They are not just problems of economic nature, they are problems of demographic nature, problems of the future of the country, problems of rural development, problems of the survival of the state. That is why my discussion will not differ greatly from when we were representatives of the ruling coalition. I would agree with some of the MPs who have said that on these topics we do not need much to deal with politics, but to see how we can improve the current situation. Subsidies per hectare of a farmland, 6000 dinars are not the same if the subsidy is given to someone in the flat-rate area who has a first-class country and someone in the mountainous area who processes the land of the sixth, seventh, eighth or ninth-class. As a result, the European principle of a steppe subsidy - one who lives on infertile soil, who is in the mountainous mountainous area, is given significantly, significantly higher subsidies than the state compared to those in more favourable geographical conditions, but simply, these are European principles which this law did not adhere to. Croatia and Slovenia, our neighbouring countries, once the countries of the common country, have done much to prepare their agriculture for the EU market. They just used this system of tapered subsidies. We will have very vague criteria, with a very wide range of subsidies, but now that, except for the processing surfaces of 6000 and a few more cash amounts that this law provides, if any of the MPs dealing with livestock or fruit production were to ask, well, here you are adopting the Law on the Encouragement of Agriculture, as far as I get by fruit, per hectare, by one livestock, etc., no one would know that the answer is given. I believe that you will regulate it by sublaw, but if this is already the Agricultural Encouraging Act, then the law should, above all, contain clear criteria on the basis of which, eventually, only sublegal acts will be specified. Because of this and because of everything that counterpart Olgica Batić said, we are indeed in the best interest, and I have also asked a parliamentary question – when this law will be found in the assembly procedure, we expected much more from this law. We did not want you to repeat the mistakes of some previous governments and to partially solve such a complex problem, such as the very difficult situation of Serbian agriculture, which you are not responsible for because you inherited it, but what we expected was that you would be more courageous and comprehensive in dealing with the solutions, so that we could really solve a 1001 accumulated problem that could be solved with a serious strategy and serious state aid. (President: Time. I'm done. It's a good thing the agricultural budget is going to be bigger, but I'm saying, it seems to me that the law is very imprecise, and that's why we will only, after discussing the amendments, make our decision to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10584	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10585	Thank you, Mr. President. The honourable MPs, honourable ministers, the SDPS parliamentary group has already noted that it will give full support to this law because it considers this to be a significant step forward in relation to the situation in agriculture and rural development. Why is it a significant step forward? Because of the fact that the village is in a very difficult situation, that we have villages that are poor, that they are abandoned by young people, and that the situation in agriculture doesn't change. Why isn't it changing? For the simple reason we had incentives in agriculture that didn't go into the right hands. It happened that the village in transition lost a lot of things. It's lost its ability to develop further. Little farmers, the middle farmer, they're completely gone. I was recently in this village, which my colleague Chikiriz mentioned, a wealthy forest village of Martinci, located by the highway, next to the railway, located by the Sava River, where you have people leaving the village that has all the predisposition of a city. I'll tell you what the village is like in Vojvodina. I come from Vojvodina, and I was born in the country myself, and those of us born in the country, we love to talk about the village and leave the village and go live and work in the city. Why do I say that? Because the present Duke village looks like this. You have three wealthy farmers who have several hundred hectares of land or even thousands of hectares of land, all others are poor and what little was twenty, thirty acres, slowly disappears, because the price of agricultural products, then the parities that are found, simply such people poor and young people leave the village. We've had such incentives that most of them got the ones that have the most. Someone won for a hectare of 14 grand, so if there's a thousand acres, you see, he's not investing in agriculture, he's buying apartments in big cities, buying business spaces, no one's controlling it. Furthermore, we have agricultural land that is the highlight of mixing and manipulation. State agricultural land is obtained by people close to local authorities, local parties, and most often by those not engaged in agriculture. It's these people, they're still putting that country in the arena. In Vojvodina, let me tell you right now, for one hectare you can get 200 euros, which is not a small price, plus an incentive, and these same people give that country further into the sublet and the nice rent they use. You know how the sublet goes? It goes so that this incentive from the state seven thousand gets the one that got the state land, and seven thousand is given to whoever does it. I ask the question – who are we stimulating? In a village where I was born, and his name is Erdevik, I'm proud to say, there are 50 young people who founded families, others living in the country. These people, because they have no means, no political power and no influence, can't reach that state country. We support this law, and I also tell the Minister that we agree with the fact that the 100 hectares limit is the limit to be stimulated. That's why we don't think it should be stimulated. I'd even introduce some more measures, of course I'm making a suggestion, let's talk about the land maximum, no matter how far it seems now something exceeded. You know, when we introduced a transition in all areas, we also introduced a transition in the village and said, "Yes, we need one large agricultural property, we need agricultural land to be big, etc." I ask the question - why should we stimulate someone who has more than 100 acres without hiring people? People in the country have nowhere to make money, and that's one of the great reasons why people from the villages move to the cities. Simply, mechanization, chemistry, no more manual work, and people eventually have to survive, come and become the city's poor. Why don't we introduce taxes that would be such that someone who has more than 100 hectares no longer stimulates the state's money, and also has to have bigger taxes? One of the questions I have to mention here is the Legacy Act. A lot of people inherit land. I ask the question – why should the country inherit someone who does not work in agriculture? He's in a situation where then the country gives up in the arena, lives well, and people who deal with agriculture, who live on agriculture, can't make money so they can live. I know that private property is intact and the SDPS thinks that this property should remain uncut, but let's stimulate, that anyone who does not deal with agriculture must pay a much bigger tax on that inherited land. If in some fund, it is possible for a young man who truly deals with agriculture, who lives on agriculture, to work on that land, then to free that man from taxes, and thus to receive compensation for that land he gave to a young man who will work, to live and his family in the future to stay in the country, to live in the country and to develop the village. You have a situation in these Vojvodina villages, which are infrastructured, which have everything, that in ten years one village of 3,500 people has now fallen to 2,500, and is 80 kilometers from Belgrade and 50 kilometers from Novi Sad, along the highway with all the infrastructure facilities that exist, a new school that will be closed, a new home of health that we will have to expand, because there are many old people who are looking for treatment and who are looking for the opportunity to live. That's why I think we need to show a lot of caution in the country, a lot of caution to look at the fact that we're really stimulating those people who are dealing with agriculture, and to prevent all possible mixing. In this law you're proposing, I see one step ahead, where you're sorting out a state where there's been abuse so far. I can tell you all the abuses you want. I've talked to a lot of people who say they plant some long-term ones, and basically there's nothing and they just take the money, they invest in some of their own businesses, so the state gives them significant resources, and agriculture, on the other hand, we don't develop the way we want to. Of course, agriculture is our development opportunity and we're talking about it. In Vojvodina where we really have a quality country and how we have to take care of how to make the most of that country. We don't need to run away from that fact that we're really on average, to see where that maximum is that one can process, that one family can live normally, and all over that tax, give the possibility of others working and living on that land, because that's our country and we have to make the most of it. This incentive for young people really needs to be given, because they are very interested in staying on their property, further developing and expanding it. I also believe that this mechanism, and our village had, especially in Vojvodina at that golden time, really good machinery, has spread and developed. Now you don't have it. Needs to put incentivises to mechanize. And we have our IMT, and we have other factories that they can give and that we can kind of encourage, so they can work and live that way. We also have our large agricultural estates. I can't help but say it all the time, and here I'll say it, it's PIC Vienna. I have already addressed Minister Knezevic around him, as well as previous ministers and all future ministers, because I believe that this is the greatest resource we have in our Vojvodina and Serbia. That means the greatest resource, that's what generations have created and, besides the Danube and Fruska Gora, I think it's in the third place of PIC Vienna. How can such a combination lead to such a condition? I'm not gonna lamble about it, but I'm just saying, we have to do everything we can for those big combineds who hire people. When we talk about agriculture, it is hard and rarely said – yes, it is also a chance for employment. Why don't we tell someone who has a hundred acres -- if you want me to work 200 acres of state land, then you have an obligation to hire 5-6 people, that people can have existence. If you work a thousand acres, yes, you're obliged to hire 50 people, 100 people. So, we have few employees, and in the village, it's very quick to process it -- mechanization, combination, no need for labour anymore, and what are we going to do with these people? That's why people leave villages. You can bring any incentives in rural development, but if we don't get back to the little man, the one who lives in the country, if you don't give him a chance, he'll have to leave his village, go to the big cities where he'll be on the verge of existence. In that very sense, we have made some amendments and I hope that they will be adopted, and in the voting day we will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10586	Thank you. MP Bojan Kostresh is not here. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10587	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Ministers Knezevic and other members of the government, most of them here present as I, are directly or indirectly tied to the country and villages. As the village is destroyed, neglected and forgotten, we all know that and I won't even talk about it. The definition of agricultural production, as a strategic economic branch, has been the key point of each government's programme over the past two decades. Unfortunately, we are all witnessing that agriculture has not yet gained its necessary position in our economy, which is because of the many problems related to the very way of agricultural production in our country, depleted land possessions, old agro-mechanization, lack of modern agro-technical measures, which is due to the objective circumstances in which our society has been in the past, the inherited situation of the past. Nevertheless, our agriculture has managed to satisfy the needs of our population for food and raw materials by its production. The survival and economic progress of our country is related to agriculture as a strategic economic branch and we must do everything in our power, and in line with the economic opportunities in the country, to help agriculture. There is no agricultural production in the modern world that is not touched and encouraged by the state. It is these incentives that are the subject of this law, which separates this important matter from the basic roof of the Agricultural and Rural Development Act. The first major step in this law is that agricultural incentives are determined according to areas where agricultural production is carried out. The criteria where agricultural production is difficult to carry out will be determined by the agriculture minister. This is a far fairer and more correct solution than the country-wide one so far, because regional specificities are also taken into account here, so more resources will be given to those who need it more. The second very important solution to be made by this law is what is related to the registration of non-commercial agricultural holdings. Such holdings are usually nursing households with 2-3 members, who in their lives were tied to their petty possessions and did not produce any surpluses of agricultural products in their production. For the past few years, incentives for such land have often been very small, which can be treated more as help than incentives in the right sense. The discouraging factor for more farmers to register in this category is the requirement that the holder of non-competition agricultural land be a farm pensioner. Unfortunately, it is known that this pension insurance system cannot in any way live in practice. In this case, it appears as an obstacle to registering non-communicative land, as it is estimated that contributions to agricultural pensions are paid by one-fifth of those who are indeed engaged in agriculture. I therefore believe that the abolition of compulsory agricultural insurance, as conditions for the registration of non-mutual agricultural land, will positively act to register a larger number of landowners, thereby increasing the agrarian budget and increasing the funds that these holdings will receive. The new law will retain the foundation of an earlier incentive system with major improvements. Incentives for plant and livestock production will be strictly defined by new legal provisions, and will replace the current annual individual government regulation and thus create a degree of security in the planning of agricultural development. It will be similar with the oil, seed and fertilizer regresses, where strict amounts per hectare and throat will also be determined for which they will shrink. It is prescribed that one user in one calendar year can make up to 10 million dinars of incentives, which will be reduced to a certain percentage, a more fair distribution of incentives among users. Finally, this bill also prescribes stricter criminal measures for abuses and violations in the use of incentive funds. I see the bill as a major step towards the firm foundations of the government's strategic definition, and I hope, this and the future calls on parliament to be a stable building of agricultural production, agricultural producers and for the benefit of the citizens of our country. With all this in mind, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that it is a legal solution that will create a good basis for regulating the system of agricultural incentives and rural development. Therefore, the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10588	National MP Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10589	Dear President, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in a united debate we are talking about six laws and it is unacceptable for us in the LDP because most parliamentary groups here in parliament have only three minutes to say something about each individual law. In the LDP, we believe that the Law on Air Protection is equally important, as is the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. Because of the lack of time and because the ruling majority at the head of the SNS united these laws, today we had very little opportunity to hear from the MPs in this room something about the Air Protection Act. In the beginning, I'm going to talk about this law. Based on the report on the state of the environment in 2011, which we received, we have the opportunity to see that there is a constant increase in sulphur and nitrogen emissions in the period 2000 to 2010. We get that increase from the "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant from RTB Bor from production plants in Kostolc, Kolubara and Pancheva. In Bor alone, daily sulphur dioxide concentrations in 2011 were higher than the limit values in 40% of cases, which were 162 days in the city park in the previous year. A similar situation is in other cities in Serbia, so excessive air pollution in Novi Sad, Panchev, Belgrade, Kostolc, Obrenovac, Smedereva and Bora. From this report, when we look at the air quality assessment, we can finally see that the final air quality assessment in the zone of Serbia during 2011 is the third category of excessively polluted air. This means that we live in bad conditions and that we have a bad environment and for this reason it is good that we have this law on the congregation agenda today. The law defines stationary sources of pollution and especially combustion plants, but it is completely unclear and I am really sorry that Minister Mihajlovic left, which is why this Article 3 is the one that says that Article 42 is changing and it is said that I would not list when the same text existed in the old law literally to the score? No letter, no comma of this member has been changed. What made this change in this new law? If we know that this is a difficult and bad state of the environment, then it is absolutely unacceptable for us in LDP to sublegal acts, or regulations under this law should be passed by the government within the next year. We believe that a six-month deadline for the adoption of those regulations is sufficient and we believe that the proposing will accept this amendment. As for the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr. Knezevic, at first you said there was a public debate, so you quoted which cities in Serbia you held a public debate and that is correct. I'm not going to argue that the public hearing has not been held. Minister, I can tell you that a public debate has not been held in more than one third of Serbia's territory. In almost one half of Serbia's territory, in these cities and municipalities you did not go to public debate. Do you think that agricultural producers, people who do business, whether commercial or non-commercial, are cooperatives or are private firms in Nisavski County, Toplic, Pcinjski, Jablaničko, Pirotski, Borski, Zaječarski, Braničevski, Pomoravski, Podunavski, have nothing to say about this law? When we start from Belgrade to Nis, from highway left all the way to Vranja, Leskovci, you absolutely did not have a public debate. I don't mean you as a minister. And there, ministers, people are engaged in agricultural production, even under much harder and worse conditions than farmers in Vojvodina. I don't want to use a bad word to say that you didn't go to those parts of Serbia on purpose, I don't want to say that, but the problems farmers face in that part of Serbia are diametrically contrary to those problems that exist in Vojvodina. I think you know that the parcels in that part of Serbia are 30 acres or 40 acres. You will agree that for these farmers it means that their product is far more expensive, because they have to move their machinery from one parcel to another. For this reason, we believe that you should have conducted a public debate in that part of Serbia, especially as this law also provides for rural development. The Pirotski and Knjaževci district and part of eastern Serbia must also include the need to invest in rural development. I think that on the ground of these people who deal with agriculture, who want to deal with some other things about rural development, you could hear what kind of problems there are, so you could solve some of these problems with this law. In any case, I think it's a good thing that we're passing this law today, because you were right when you said that in the earlier period incentives were shared by the government making a number of regulations during the year and that farmers had no predictability of agricultural policy. In this sense, this law gives predictability, which is for us in the LDP in part. This law even has too many members, Mr. Knezevic, and that is almost a quarter of the members of this law, where it is predicted that the minister responsible for agricultural affairs prescribes something. Whether these are areas with difficult working conditions in agriculture or whether these are ways of achieving incentives or patterns, it is less important. The important thing is that it can always change. I don't think you'll be prescribing the forms yourself. It will be done by your expert teams, but I think you could further eliminate some things by this law, and not that there is a later need for the ministry to do something later, and that, by doing so, for agricultural producers, it is unpredictable. It also states in some members that, depending on the resources available, the minister can limit the country's surface for basic incentives and related incentives for plant production. I think that's bad. You agree with me. If it doesn't get deleted... You're saying it's gonna get erased and you agree with me that it's a bad part of the law. I can commend you for accepting that article's being deleted. Article 4 states that the government rules for each year the volume of funds, species and maximum amounts of incentives. I really think that's bad. Here are certain minimums under which there can be no incentive. It's good that if there's more money in the budget, those incentives get bigger. It is bad that Article 4(2) says that the total value for incentives is not less than 5% of the republican budget. I agree that it should be 5%, maybe even more than 5%, but in the current Law on the Budget of the Republic, that's your statement, that we all know here, is 4.5% for agriculture. Does that mean we're expecting a rebalance of the Republic's budget in the next month? If that doesn't mean, since you're taking your head off, then it means that you might be in a situation where you don't have enough resources to give as much incentive as you might want. I think it is not bad to rebalance the budget, to respect that this law is not contrary to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia. In your opening statement, you said the law would be applied, the 5% since January 1st of the following year, but it does not stand anywhere in the transitional provisions. Only if the government hasn't given any additional amendment. I assume you did it after my presentation on the Committee on Agriculture, since I've turned my attention to that. It's practically four billion dinars less than farmers expect of you. It is bad, Minister, to limit the support measures that will be given by an autonomous province or local self-government. I'll tell you for what reason. In Article 13, that's Article 2, you say local self-government can use direct payments measures, so it's taxing on why local self-government can allocate funds from its budget. It's completely unnecessary. You can't know, or any of us here, for which purposes will all be local self-government. their farmers need funding during the year. In that same article, Article 5, you have the opportunity to say that the measures given by local self-government are brought with the previous consent of the minister. If you feel that some local self-government is proposing measures that do not comply with this law or are not in line with the measures of agrarian policy, you can not give that local self-government consent to the programme and return them to correct it. This is how you limit local self-government to certain measures, and in practice, some other measures will be needed and local self-government will not be able to single out the funds without breaking the law. For this reason, we believe that Article 13 should delete the second position that speaks of the restriction on local self-government for which the funds can be spent. You will agree that certain local self-governments may consider that they should grant subsidies for part of the mechanism or part of something not provided for by this law. Also, we in the LDP believe that milk premiums, which are foreseen by this law to be paid quarterly, should be paid monthly. This does not require any additional funding from the Republic's budget. It only requires that milkers and those who buy milk are on time delivering reports to the ministry and that you are practically transferring funds from the republican budget once a month. That's good for farmers. They'll get a certain amount of funding every month. I think it would stimulate the production of milk, because we know that many producers in the past have been very disappointed. I don't want to tell the demagogue that the price of milk and incentive should be, instead of 7, 9 or 10 dinars. I think you should make an effort to make those payments once a month, because if we take into account the fact that many agricultural producers, a few years ago, wanted to make their own farms, when it was a good price for milk, they went into loans, and then the state cheated them by importing milk powder, so they slaughtered them, sold them, etc. That's why we have a bad stock fund today. You yourself said in your opening statement that we only have 35% of high-quality milk. To stimulate this, no additional resources are needed, you need to accept our amendment and pay the milk premium monthly. We believe that the incentives provided for in this law for cows, sheep, goats, sows should be at every quality throat and that the rule should not apply that if you have a minimum of five cows or sheep, you can get that incentive. I think that's what you do and help small farmers, especially in that part of eastern and southern Serbia where people are mostly old. Why can't someone with one or two cows or sheep get that incentive that isn't, you'll agree, so big? You said you'd end this subsidy restriction, so I won't talk about it. We believe that there is a need to increase the incentive measures for rural development at a minimum of 40%. The law provides for 30% here. We believe that this should be more and should be 40%, and that subsidies should be made for products and producers making products of geographical origin. The fact is, this country is missing a brand. I believe that if we were to stimulate such producers, some additional subsidies, we would have the chance to create a product that is competitive on the market and good for export. If not, then we'll pass as we did with plums and other products. These are products in processing, but if we look at it, we see that there are indigenous varieties in vineyarding and in some other areas. We believe that if geographical origin were protected, if specific subsidies were given for this, it would speed up the development of agriculture. In the end, I want to say that I'm sorry that as a government, you've given the amendment that this year won't be worth 5%, but 4.5%. On that basis, one four billion dinars will go to less farmers from the budget. We hope, since this law stipulates that it is a minimum 5%, that the Law on the budget of the Republic of subsidies for agriculture will achieve at some percentage of 6% or 7%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10590	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10591	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, me, as someone who comes from the agricultural family and who comes from the territory of the municipality of Zitiste, a municipality where 70% of the population is engaged in agriculture, rejoices that today we are talking about a bill on incentives and rural development. What I find especially satisfying and satisfactory is this provision of 5% of the agricultural budget, which the finance and business minister announced when adopting the budget for next year. He's looking forward to the fact that the agrarian budget this year is 4.5% after someone, let's call it, the historic minimum of 2.4%. Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance and the Government deserve praise when it comes to payments of subsidies for the period from 2012, because if there were no rebalancing of the promised subsidy they would not have been paid. What I would also like to stress is that by adopting this law, I see part of what the U.S.S. said in the election campaign, which is exactly 5% of the budget, investment support, predictability. The adoption of one law subliming all those measures, which were once used and used in the Republic of Serbia, is a clear indication that farmers will be able to count on a certain minimum from which they will not deviate. It is clear that there are grounds for the development of agrarian policy and a more transparent way in which the funds will be allocated. It's a good thing there's a unique record of incentives. What I mean is, it is true that sublegal acts and rules will be done, but it should also be stressed that the amount of funds, type and maximum amounts will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia within 30 days of the entry into force of the budget for the current year, that incentives are divided into direct payments, rural development measures and specific incentives. Incentives should be defined as an instrument of agrarian policy, to affect in certain areas of agriculture an increase in competitiveness, not as aid to farmers. Farmers, when they have a clear policy, which is not variable from minister to minister, can then plan and know how to plan. I would also take this opportunity to point out to the Minister what was wrong in the previous period, and I believe he's familiar with it himself. It created a major problem for farmers to store oil by house. The bureaucracy is certainly complicated and I believe the minister has a solution in the coming period. Also, aware of the fact that the payment depends to a good extent on the budget that we have adopted since it was charged, but it is certain that it will be seen in the future that farmers, i.e. In the years to come, when I say in the future, it helps right at times when they have the biggest investment, which is from spring. On the other hand, I would also like to commend the part relating to rural development measures, because the average population in the Republic of Serbia is 97 inhabitants per km square. The rural population is occupied by 63 inhabitants per km of square, while the urban population is 289 inhabitants. It is a clear fact that the growing number of people in the country is, but it also rejoices that this ministry has a plan and is thinking about how to encourage young people and how to encourage life in the country to not be extinguished. Therefore, I personally have no reason not to support this bill and, in the future, in an active way that institutional mechanisms allow, influence the improvement of everything in this area. Also, institutionally, we have submitted amendments, but in the day when it is discussed in detail, we will discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10592	National MP Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10593	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, we all agree that agriculture is our great chance, that there are great potentials in it and that we should pay particular attention to it, especially that we, or most of you, mentioned here that agribusiness participates with 20% in creating GDP, participates with 20% in Serbia's exports, and that this is one of the few branches, if not the only one that has a positive balance in external trade. The very announcement and the idea that this ministry will pass a law on incentives in agriculture and rural or rural development, I would say earlier, has brought great attention to both agricultural producers and their associations and the very professional public. Of course, mostly because agricultural policy has led back years through regulations, from year to year, from kind of incentives to kind of incentives, so most of them here today agreed, there was no such need for predictability, stability, certainty that would accompany the development of agrarians. Only passing this law is a positive shift in the work of this ministry. But does this very proposal of the law bring about this necessary predictability, certainty and stability in agriculture? First of all, the altitude of the agrarian budget will vary from year to year. It's good that it's not less than 5%, it's at least about five, if it's possible and something more, not under five, but it's going to vary from year to year. The law also provides for minimal incentives, this level below which you will not go, but that is why you are given the authority to prescribe these maximum or from a minimum to a maximum amount of incentives, at least for certain species by incentives, so we cannot say that you have predictability, except when it comes to these basic incentives. By law, the right to incentive has for the first time legal persons, and then cooperatives, entrepreneurs and, of course, registered family agricultural holdings. Types of incentives, direct payments, rural development and specific incentives are these three main groups. In direct payments, this is what has always been under the glass and agricultural producers and the public, where premiums, where incentives for plant and livestock production, where regressions are and where credit support is, simply exists, but tell me whether or not it is justified to worry about family agricultural holdings, relatively small producers, where a large part of the agricultural budget will eat, conditionally said, large, or legal persons who will make the most money and withdraw. Is there going to be something left and how much of it will remain for these individual family agricultural holdings? It's one big grudge and individual producers and their associations. It is further treated here in the law, and, of course, parts of family agricultural holdings on commercial or market-oriented and non-commercial, which have been identified as non-commercial when registering or renewing registration. Commercially they will have the opportunity to use all these incentives, for non-commercial you will only subsequently determine by regulation, regulation, whatever, types of incentives, conditions, method of use etc. You know, back in the day, many agricultural producers registered as non-commercial. One of the colleagues or colleagues said that there were certain legal obstacles, that not everyone could register as commercial, so we still have 30% of non-commercial family owners and for them this law, at this point, is absolutely unnecessary, because it will only later wait for how much incentive they will be given. We have responded here by amendment, that at least the instruments for which time will be passed by a regulation, regulation or whatever, which will refer to non-commercial family holdings. It's good, Minister, that there'll be green books and you'll be registering for incentives. It's one newspaper, and it's good to have a record of how many incentives we've given, but I'm afraid and I'm just asking you -- is it going to be just one statistical data register that will serve the ministry and how many of you, or will the ministry manage to smooth out the mechanism, how will we measure the effects of the incentives given? On the condition that 5% of this budget that we adopted for 2013, provided that it is now valid for this year, it is almost 50 billion dinars. We will give these incentives according to these bases and these kinds of incentives to these users. How will we determine the measureability of the effects on productivity, efficiency, competitiveness of our agricultural production? Is there any way we can measure what these effects will be? Is there any way that a customer of incentives is bound by a contract, that at least part of their products, whatever they are, is bound by a contract with the Ministry, that part of their products, in the value of their incentives, sell to the stock reserves, so that we can make sure that they are part of the stock reserves, which they can intervene when they need, and that they have, in a way, the safety that they can place a part of their products. In terms of surveillance, supervisory authorities, they are, in fact, the only ones who control and enforce this law on the ground. It's a farm inspection. I'm telling you responsibly, and you know how many agricultural inspectors there are, that one inspector holds the ground, say, from Kruševac, Kraljev, to Pogorec, Petrovec at Mlava, including the municipality of Svilajnac, where I come from. I'm sure I'm telling you, the agricultural inspector doesn't come in half a year and a half on the ground of a certain municipality, so we can confidently say that we don't know if the area under certain cultures is sown in one of these municipalities, is it really as much of a tow hero and all the other animals as it is sought in the incentive application. This opens up a huge space for the abuse of these couples, so we don't know if they're really going to use them to increase productivity, competitiveness, or if they're going to buy plasma televisions or new furniture for half of them. Today, I'm telling you, no one's in control. If we're already giving this much money for incentives, you know for sure, we all talk to farmers at every opportunity, they always point out, which problems – the set of repromaterials, expensive spare parts and problem with the placement of their products. I also point out and tell you, even Pomoravlje, Resava, and beyond, there are MPs here from other parts of Serbia's rope, there is no organised ransom and organised sale for the bulls. Eighty, ninety, if not one hundred percent, I'll make that reserve, buy out the dealers with KIM. They have their own people working on the ground, loading cattle, getting money on their hands, and that's how they do trade across Resava and Pomoravalj, probably in all of Serbia, and we all know that. How are we going to build a bridge between these manufacturers and their products and processing facilities? I believe and are good at these rural development measures, and these special incentives are good, I just hope, from talking to people from the agricultural fund of my municipality, that maybe we should create a programme where in municipalities we will have services that will be the bridge, from the manufacturer, which, above all, will make a base of what a municipality can offer the market, how many types of plant production, how many livestock production, that we eventually have a united database – what Serbia offers in terms of finished products. Here we're mostly talking – we're going to give incentives, it's okay, agriculture can't do without incentives, but the effects of the measurement of the incentives themselves. In the end, the DSS reminds you, the SAA knows what the consequences will bring to our farmers. Are these measures strong enough for our agricultural producers to compete with EU producers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10594	National MP Zoran Kasalovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10595	Dear President, Mr. Minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen, the SPS considers agriculture, the village and food production to be the great potential of economic and social development, as well as the export chance of Serbia, but only with the necessary attention and certain support in their modernisation and restructuring. We consider our important political goal to improve the standard of living and the social impact of people in the country. The country's work has to pay off, because otherwise we'll have negative demographic flows, emptying out entire areas, and the Serbian peasant, the farmer wants and demands his country and his government to have domestic behaviour, and therefore there must be no more empty promises, and in the past there must be no more social policy at the expense of villages and agriculture, and there must be no more improvisation, and it has also been in the past. It takes sincere and thought-out support. That is why, at the very beginning, I would like to say that public interference and transparency are very important in the way in which incentives are used. I want to point out that it's very important that they're in art. The 10th and 11th planned opening of a dedicated account and a register of the management of incentives, which will provide the public in the cost of these incentives, as well as the payment of incentives strictly prescribed in certain deadlines, such as: in Article 16, when it comes to milk premiums, where it is said that within three days of the day of payment, payment must be made to the purpose account. Of course, after that, it is also very important to control the spending of incentive funds, and it is good that the powers of inspectors in Article 44 who have the authority to file criminal charges for commercial offences, as well as criminal charges. I would agree with my previous DSS colleague that I really expect the ministry and the competent services to be prepared and operationally, and numerically and qualitatively, so that this whole process can be followed to the end. The village needs the development of modern economy, economic, traffic and social infrastructure. This is indeed one way to overcome the dramatic warning trend that, according to the 2010 data, 4706 settlements or about 25% of total settlements, no child was born in 1140, and of 165 municipalities, without Kosovo and Metohija, a positive natural growth was recorded at eight, which really speaks of negative demographic flows. For this reason, I would like to clearly support the definition in this proposal of a type of incentive for rural development measures in Article 32 and the particularly proposed incentives for improving the rural economy, where investments are also envisaged for improving and developing infrastructure in rural areas, because this is primarily the basis and assumption for the development of these areas, as well as the creation of assumptions for the joint functioning of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the state, autonomous province and local self-government. Presenting the policy frameworks of the government of Serbia, Prime Minister Dacic gave policy frameworks at the end of July in his exhibition, saying that Serbia must have a clear economic development strategy based on its comparative advantages, which are primarily agricultural and food industries, energy and infrastructure. In this context, the prime minister also announced an increase in the agricultural budget, this year it is 4.5%, as we heard, with the goal of making a full 5% in 2014, of course, and establishing a long-term agricultural policy, so that farmers can prepare and plan their production in the long term, because this is the only and the right way for Serbia to be a major food exporter or what might be the goal of one day – Europe's own garden. Logically, in line with this defined prime minister policy, we today have a draft law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. Indeed, the resolution ministry reacted very quickly, headed by Mr. Knezevic, who is a man who comes from Banat, and I am sure he well recognises the needs of agriculture and the importance of incentives. There is no doubt that the proposal for a provision of a law on promotions in agriculture and rural development provides for one suspension of a variable and unconsistent agrarian policy, as this law systematically regulates one framework and regulates the types of incentives, the conditions for the exercise of incentives and the use of incentives in agriculture and rural development. Incentives that have been mentioned here in terms of direct payments, where premiums are foreseen, incentives for production, regressions, credit support, rural development measures, I have already said something about some, of course and the last incentive, which there are seven, I am sure that it will contribute to the establishment of predictability, stability and consistency of agrarian policy, because in this way, as the minister himself said in his opening address, to a minimum of consciousness or to abolish the regulations that were the main source of ad hoc agrarian policy, which included certain pressures on the government and any other negative consequences we had in the previous period. Proposer's explanation says that agriculture is the only branch of the Serbian economy that has achieved a positive balance in external trade in continuity since 2005 and that's really good. On the other hand, what is not good is a structure which is not particularly favourable, if it is borne in mind that primary agricultural products dominate lower additional values, of course, compared to final products which have a higher added value. It certainly represents a certain space for the development of our agriculture in the future. That's why I want to say in this place that I don't understand why, in the basic bill and in the draft of the law, there are no incentive measures for livestock. We have therefore, the SPS Parliament Club, submitted certain amendments when it comes to the treatment of incentives in livestock. I want to say first of all that there are more reasons why we did it. The livestock production is very important, primarily because of the diet of the population of essential foods such as meat and egg, and it has already been said that meat that comes from the livestock industry is somewhat cheaper and more accessible to a wide range of inhabitants. If we look at the fact that in the history of livestock, it was never a small number of parents, so parent chickens, it certainly worries and speaks of carelessness and neglect in a previous period, and it also warns us that if this trend continued in the future, there would literally be a drastic decline in production or the disappearance of livestock production. Our country would have become absolutely dependent on imports, which certainly none of us would have wanted. On the other hand, livestock represents significant potential for exporting from wanted foods to very attractive world markets. Certain provisions should be brought into line with EU standards. Certain investments are also needed in the modernisation of outdated livestock capacities, which is why the genetic potential of world livestock producers cannot be fully exploited. On the other hand, it should be said that incentives in livestock would certainly curb transport and production in the gray zone and thus speed up the health security of foods, and hence the health of consumers, i.e. residents in the state of Serbia. We had an idea of a broader scope, but between equally important livestock branches, we really defined ourselves for what is possible and I appreciate that it can be acceptable for the ministry and government. So, when it comes to parents, because it's the base and the basis of future production. Dear Mr. Minister, esteeming your support and understanding of the problem so far when it comes to the business of our most important company in the field of agriculture "Agroziv" from Zitist, which thanks to the extremely productive support of the state through the public company "Srbigas" has employed about 1,300 workers within a very short time. These are highly trained workers with a long tradition of working in livestock. Over a period of two years, the company won about 60% of the domestic market, and around 15% of the production was exported to Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro. With certain investments in the new slaughterhouse, the quality of the product can be improved, of course, by creating perspectives for the finalisation of its products, which I understand is that the goal of the ministry itself, therefore, is the finalisation of products, greater added value and export potential. So, it represents one significant potential in our country and therefore I am convinced that you certainly recognise the importance of livestock and survival primarily of domestic producers such as the Agroziv company in Zitist, which must get its own support and in the future, because it is important primarily for the domestic market, and, of course, our other small and large producers from the field of livestock and that you will take a good look at the proposal for the SPS amendment and that, in this way, we will together create long-term incentives in livestock and avoid the real danger of our country becoming a fully import-dependent country in this domain. Finally, respecting indeed all the arguments put forward, and above all the objectives of this law, in achieving predictable and stable agrarian policies in the long run, the SPS Parliament Club will in principle support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10596	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10597	Mr. President, respected ministers, ministry colleagues, MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, no one will complain about the fact that we are discussing agriculture today. It's probably one of the few elements of consensus in our country, citizens and well-intentioned friends in the world who say we can do a lot more with the resources we have. Resources that are not only those 3.9 million hectares of high-quality farmland and which should not be overly affected by climate change that is inevitable. It is primarily a particular tradition, knowledge and population that is ready to engage. That is why I must say that today we do not want to criticise this law to criticise it, but rather to say that we may be disappointed because of the lack of ambition of what we are today. This is the key brand in our economy. Honestly, we're going to say that it's good, that we have the law, even there are elements about rural development that are for the first time in law, law matter, and that's something that gives more certainty. Let's look at the level of 12 years, and it's true that six governments, this is the sixth government after five October changes, and there have been a lot of changes in agrarian policy, and not only in the work of the previous government, but also in those previous governments before them. It was not good and therefore we would have support from the DS if we were to go ambitious on a long-term development plan for our agricultural sector. I could make a joke that maybe our disappointment is greater because we Democrats are always more expected from our members, so, for God's sake, from our former members. For that reason, Minister, we want to encourage you today to also discuss this law, but also generally show more ambition about this matter. Don't let anyone else get involved in a resort that knows a lot less. Don't give to other ministries who may have different goals to enter your ad, if I may say so. Now a few details. I think my colleagues in this debate will explain the amendments we have prepared and, as I said, they have no political interference, but only to show that it is possible to do better with one of these texts. The key problem with this text is this. He essentially duplicates each other's text, because there is already a Agriculture Act, it could have been complete and would have the same effect. That law also has the programs that you mentioned this morning when you explained and you took the elements from those programs and put them into law and some elements of the regulation, and that might be good, to see what will be planned with us, but there you have stopped. You gave the minimum prices that were long ago, with the exception of seven dinars per litre of milk, and it won't be easy to achieve, I think you're aware of that. Then you left everything else to you and the government to decide. So there's not much of the security that's been announced here. I think what is missing in this law with certain technical problems that I will now mention is a lack of vision and a clear definition of where our strategic sector of agriculture should go. The technical problems are that we have premiums and now we're talking about the law, no more regulations, which, as we know, are easier to change, is enough for one session of the government, and here we have premiums that are in dinars that are not indexed. We know well that the governor said that we're going to go to 5.5 inflation this year and we're just going to see that, but she already said that she's going to be worth minimally in euro premiums by 5.5% from the moment this bill is passed, up to the next budget for 2014. We have experience here tax laws have built-in indexation systems, not in euro, but at least for what inflation will be for the coming year. There is no reason for the resolution committee to immediately adopt an inflation indexation session that will be established at the end of the year and thus show that in the real amount of the premiums indicated here will not be defused. Second element, I'm listening to my fellow MPs today how many times we've heard that debate, the resolution ministers want to have part of the budget cake. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are not good for those who wish well to the sector that they wish to have a percentage of the budget for a very simple reason. Our budgets, whoever they are, are primarily the budgets from which the subsidy is paid, i.e. Dosing to our pension fund, a lot of pay, and basically that percentage of the budget almost entirely depends not on the agrarian policy of the government, but on the policy of wages and pensions that the government wants or can implement at a given time. Freeze salaries and pensions as is the case in this budget that you have proposed and voted for, and you will be easier to reach a higher percentage of the budget because pension subsidies will not be as large, they will not grow as much as they need to grow to monitor inflation for our pensioners and those who have salaries from the budget. Come at a time when there is a social tension to raise budget salaries and mechanically that percentage of budgets will fall. Think about it and I'm telling you that the only way that we all, no matter what party we belong to, can track how much we really single out for a particular resort, here agriculture, is to participate in GDP, there's no better. Because GDP is a cake that we all make together, and you can see on that cake, you can see what our nation's real priorities are. In that case, there are no more of these external factors such as increase and freezing wages and pensions. Finally, I have to tell you this is no longer a technique, although you can see that this is not exactly a harmless technique for what is presented as a multi-annual and long-term budget, we see a major problem from experience, from your decision to return to a hectare depletion, no matter what that hectare was doing. Parry, not parry, intense, intense, present, not present. In 2007, I was one of the authors of the measure, which was very important, which is the introduction of this measure of dying per hectare. Remember, it was one of the key measures the DS proposed for the 2007 elections. She was noticed for a reason and she did contribute, so you'll agree, increasing our production and these results, despite the drought we reached last year. We have had several years of experience now and therefore the Ministry of Agriculture, considering the effects of these measures, seeing that it begins to have some illogical consequences, may not go to that moment as one Bulgarian Minister of Agriculture who had to in the European Commission explain that the images satellitely for some premiums he expected from the European budget were going with something that the parking lots and in no way the agricultural country being processed. There are serious problems with that, but let's not say we don't talk about potential abuses, or injustice, where someone gets the same price radio or not. The main problem is that the EU introduced premiums per hectare at the time of its hyperproduction, while at the same time wanting to preserve the village's capacity. That's why they didn't push for it. Minister, we heard from you this morning, and we know very well that we need it. We need a contribution and we need a quality contribution, first of all where culture brings the most, because agriculture from all the branches in our country is the one that is least import-dependent and which, as soon as possible, can contribute not only to the external balance, the well-being of our country, but because little import-dependent contributions to the stability of the macro-economy of the dinar and I can also say that this is another by-product of agriculture that is a little bit talked about. It can contribute to energy efficiency and environmental efficiency through biomass and other by-products. What we lack in this law is the key questions that I will only list, because I believe that during today's debate we need to talk about them. First of all, Mr. Minister, we need to set ourselves up towards the EU. That's what I'm saying as a signer of the Association Agreement. Because of The Hague, Kosovo and today of the crisis in Europe, we are ready, Mr Minister, to support your efforts, to activate protective mechanisms, because the deadlines discussed in 2002-2003, when the negotiations began, until 2008, were breached by the EU. I believe we can reach a national consensus here on the issue. We have every right to demand that some transitional periods be extended, that some of our cultures be protected. It's something very important for a large number of our farmers and I ask you, Minister, to engage. We heard you wrote a letter that way. Give us that letter and let's all work together on this important issue. The second question - why is it that when we all agree that we must reverse the proportion between warfare and livestock, we do not see any step here to make our agriculture more enlightened by livestock? Should it be mentioned that the export quota for the "baby buffet" is never more than 18%, and for this product too, for many others in the programme there are also social demand in the EU market? I just want to say that we don't see here as far as rural development is concerned, much more than organic production. Let me make a little joke, it's not because the head of this expert group who wrote this law and how personally active in this domain is the fact that it's so written about this programme itself? It would be a good idea for all of this to be presented in the right way. There's a lot more we want to say. In the end, I want to say a few words about land. With 3.2 hectares on average Serbia is far below the minimum of what can be huge productivity, what we need to get to six, seven, ten billion dollars surplus in our exchange. We have to ask ourselves what will happen to these several hundred thousand delayed debates that cannot be completed. Where are the measures to unite in a voluntary way, with the incentive of this property? Mr. Minister, this morning you said we needed a single policy. No one around agriculture will share Serbia. Everyone from Saturday to Vranj agrees that it's a chance. You were also talking about the instability of agricultural policy. This instability is not just about politics, there is something fundamental, and that is that we have at least three areas that are topographical, sociological and historically different from Vojvodina, central Serbia and mountainous agriculture. We need to have a regionalization of this agrarian policy. That's what the DS is going to suggest. That's not how we share Serbia. What little it says here about the province's role isn't enough. We believe it's the only way we'll have peace in the house when we talk about agricultural land. In the end, DS is not against the arrangement your colleague and you have negotiated with the Arab Emirates. There's a problem with communication, and probably strategies. Agricultural land is not just a sensitive issue in Serbia. Dear MPs, slightly north, in Hungary's parliament a few weeks ago, even if it has been a full member of the EU since 2004, passed a law prohibiting foreign agricultural land. We do not say that we should go in that direction, but when we know that some of our neighbouring countries do not only have domestic funds, but often double their agrarian budget, such as Croatia, which already has 400 million domestic euros today and which, during a few years, when they come from the European budget, will have almost a billion euros per year for agrarian, even if they have those 5% in the budget, we will be three to four times smaller. No nationalism should be introduced where there is no room, but we need to be aware that on the issue of agricultural land, we may accidentally experience a huge political problem tomorrow. Our responsibility as MPs and you, as a carrier of the executive authorities, is to anticiptise and bring measures and to have a national debate on agricultural land, national goods and to see under what conditions we are not yet a member of the EU, we want to have them until we enter that same Union, and we know that it will last. Therefore, do not be angry if the duchy government today forms an expert group of eight extraordinary experts. I know you know them. Let them give their opinion. Let's all take a good look at what's in this agreement and not be a stumbling block, but advance where we need to, to improve, to be that first step in what we agree with. It's a way that, with domestic strength, we have the opportunity to attract big investments in what is going to be, whoever is in power, I'm confident of that, one big chance for our country. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10598	The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10599	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the People, Mr Minister, in a debate that has been held so far in the principle of the Proposal for a Law on Encouragement in Agriculture and Rural Development, i.e. in the development of the village, it was not heard that this law was unnecessary and that this law was bad. This is probably because the legislative proposal is good and necessary for the launch and development of agriculture, the processing industry and the overall economy and the country in general. We have heard objections to this legislative proposal, as well as well-intentioned proposals in order to improve the law, which is normal, because every MP wants to make a contribution to writing a law that will start agriculture and benefit not only farmers, but society as a whole. If these MPs' proposals are good and beneficial for the development of agriculture, the ministry will likely accept them. The question arises whether the level of incentives is sufficient to improve agricultural production. It should be borne in mind that here we are talking about the minimum amounts of incentives that can be even higher when conditions are created for this. Today, when our economy and agriculture are destroyed as the country's economy, it is difficult to expect more isolation for agriculture. Dear fellow Members of the People, this law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, i.e. rural development, should contribute to the establishment of long-term stability, predictability and transparency of agrarian policy. This law should avoid the volatility and instability of agricultural policy. This law should allow farmers to plan in the medium and long term production, i.e. to enable farmers to target their production, or specialize in production where they will achieve the best results, not to diversify. This law defines the measures of agrarian policy to be applied through the definition of the type of incentives, the way they are applied, the users of incentives are defined, the conditions of use of incentives are defined, the keeping of the incentive records is defined, and the inspection supervision of the use of incentives is defined. This law should create a condition for planning the necessary appropriations for the implementation of agrarian policy in each budget period. Dear colleagues are asked what is the objective of fostering agriculture? Is the objective of paying the farmer's incentive to live off that incentive based on ownership of the country? If so, then the incentive is one social category. Of course that's not the goal of the state. Incentives, the state should influence the increase in agricultural production and thus improve the situation of farmers and agriculture. Where is Serbia's agriculture today? Serbia has 5.6m hectares of agricultural land, 4.2m hectares of farmland. From the farmland, about 90% is in the private sector. Most of the farmland is fertile, but due to lack of education and poor land use, there is a problem in Serbia's central areas of acidification of land, and in the northern parts, the problem of complexion, which affects the level of yield and the cost of processing. There is little use of irrigation systems in Serbia, although it has high water potential, only 1-1.5% are irrigated. With irrigation, we are in the last place in Europe. Why are we the last in Europe to use the irrigation system? Because it didn't invest in irrigation. Why wasn't it invested? It was not invested because there was no money, nor will nor the minister's ability to obtain money for capital investment in agriculture. As is known, workers in Serbia have the lowest wages in the region, we have the largest inflation in the region and the highest unemployment. The goal of our government and the Ministry of Agriculture is to change this situation for the better in Serbia and therefore we need capital investments with strategic partners. One of the capital investments will be investments in irrigation, machinery, freezers, storage, etc., which will arise from an agreement with the United Arab Emirates. The most important part of the deal is the clause on investing in Serbian agriculture, about a billion and 250m euros, which will be the most convincing single investment in Serbia. How much use we're going to make is certainly dependent on the ability of our government and our ministry. Since the investment, in 2013 and 2014, 300m euros are foreseen, half of which will be used for irrigation. The average yield in plant production in Serbia is significantly lower than in developed countries of Europe. There's nothing better in livestock. We've got 0.3, parole, cattle per hectare. In European countries, that's twice as much. In Serbia, there are about 16% of the agricultural population in the structure of the total population. About 40% of the population lives in rural areas, one third of which deals with agriculture. The agricultural population is significantly old. We have a large number of nursing homes, with a low level of education of the agricultural population. The share of primary agricultural production, in GDP, is 10-12%, while in exports, agriculture with the processing industry accounts for about 40%. The share of livestock production in the total income of agriculture is very low, about 30%, while in developed countries it is 60%. Although exports of agricultural products are very important to us, exports per hectare of arable area in Serbia are among the lowest in Europe. So much for Serbia that can feed half of Europe. My colleagues and I have visited all municipalities of Serbia, including salasses in Serbia, and have fully informed about the state of agriculture, agricultural producers and the whole of Serbia. A programme of agrarian policy has been developed, which will be in the role of developing modern, market-based agriculture, in line with the EU's agricultural policy. We set goals and tasks, which our government, or the Ministry of Agriculture, and implements. One of the objectives to be achieved is to ensure a satisfactory level of income for agricultural producers. This means increasing the economic motivation of agricultural producers. Without meeting this goal, in the long run, there will certainly be no stabilisation and increase in agricultural production, as an increase in labour productivity. The second goal is to ensure nutrition in the Republic of Serbia, then increase productivity and total agricultural production. One of the objectives is to preserve the environment from the impact of the negative effects of agriculture. It is very important for Serbia to preserve and revitalise the village as well as for the balanced regional development of agriculture in the Republic of Serbia. Our Ministry of Agriculture has taken the problem of agriculture very seriously, it is their job and it is going towards solving this problem, which shows this proposed law on incentives and rural development. This law won't solve all the problems of agriculture, but it's a very good start. This government should encourage the education of farmers, especially young farmers in schools, where they will learn all new achievements, new knowledge and all the demands of modern agriculture, which they cannot learn from their parents. In order to reduce the number of unemployed, for those who have been educated and have defined themselves to be a sustainable farmer on their property, it should be possible to make a fee, i.e. an incentive from the Ministry of Agriculture and Economy of several thousand euros, to establish a working relationship on their property. We see from the bill that the Ministry of Agriculture is seeking a significant increase in organic production, because our country has a huge chance at this production. Our land, water, air is significantly less polluted than in EU countries and other developed countries. This law provides subsidies for organic production, which is commendable. It is also important to encourage the development of the village, especially if we want our young ones to stay in the country and our villages not to disappear. Rural development involves an overall development of the rural area, which includes all areas, areas of economics, environmentals, health, education, municipal construction and everything else that determines the quality of life. Most natural resources are concentrated in rural areas. In order for young people to stay in the country and deal with agriculture, as well as for young people from urban areas to return to family households, loans and incentives are needed to restore or build a road network, i.e. road infrastructure, to provide quality electricity supply, drinking water, telephone and other communications. Dear colleagues, this bill is also good in the interest of farmers, agriculture and the whole of Serbia. It is also very important to mention the sixth chapter of this legislative proposal, which is inspection of the application of the provisions of this law and regulations. The inspection supervision should prevent abuses in the use of incentives in agriculture. What kind of abuses were involved in renting the country and using incentives, and the Ministry knows that and that's why they put this chapter on. In my opinion, we have a good bill ahead of us. You can see the great effort of the Minister and the Ministry in writing this law. So, respected colleagues, with everything previously said in mind, this law on incentives and rural development should provide long-term, predictable and transparent agrarian policy. This law should increase the motivation of users of incentives for the design and improvement of agricultural production. This law will ensure an increase in profits, productivity and efficiency in agriculture, and thus increase the competitiveness of our agriculture. One word, this is a good start for this government and the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10600	Thank you. People's MP Kenan Hajdarevic is not here. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10601	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at 17.40 p.m., MP Milica Vojic Markovic is here, but no minister on the laws I wanted to talk about is there.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10602	I'm sorry, Mr. Knezevic only came out for a moment. He's been here all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10603	Okay. First of all, I have to say that I'm very disappointed with the way you connect the dots, because between the protection of the environment, which is four and these two in terms of agriculture, I haven't been able to find a point that would bring these things together, and I'm not saying that you've taken away our ability to access each other very seriously and give us our humble contribution to that. I'll start by being surprised, listening to my colleagues from the DS, that today they said what the DSS has been saying for several years, and this is about us proposing a clause that protects Serbia's agricultural products by 2014. This is what my colleague Gorica Gajic explained very well. I wish the DS people had figured it out before. Let's get this straight. I'll take a few segments to observe. One of them is this about agriculture, genetic resources of plant varieties. As far as we're concerned, they're so-called. seed banks. It's nothing to worry about. Many people call us and think that we should pay attention to whether it is genetically modified food that enters Serbia. It's not about genetically modified food. This has nothing to do with it. That's what they're called. plant seed banks. Serbia really needs to protect its old indigenous seed, especially some indigenous species. But as far as we're concerned, there are two issues here. One of these things is that we should give our plant resources without compensation and in a very short time, and there is really no need for it. Serbia shouldn't do that. She needs to preserve her old and indigenous seeds. Only then does he have independence when he saves it. The other thing is that there are two people working at an existing facility in Batajnica, employed by two people who need to keep a whole job that's huge and then we talk about being insecure. I don't have time to deal with this anymore, and I wish I had any more. I would like to talk to the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection now, because in 2009 we were in the package in May, as it is said in parliament, although this is a more commercial term, we passed 16 laws in the field of environmental protection and was among them the Law on Air Protection. As we adopted in the package, so we missed a lot of things to notice, to conclude, and these things are now slowly coming to payment. After four years here is our law again in parliament and it has to change. However, there were several other facts that preceded these changes and additions. One of these facts was that we had to, the law that was passed in the fall of 2012 abolished compensation and this law had to adapt in this sense to the new situation. The emerging situation, found, as I would say, was the abolition of the Nature Protection Fund, which was very important for the work in this area. As he was abolished, so we had to, i.e. The Ministry to find other mechanisms. Obviously, this law had to be adapted to that. It is interesting that a few more facts are followed by this law, which is also important, because it speaks about what air Serbian citizens have on their territory, what they breathe and what they are sick about. Practically 27 diseases within the Serbian border are due to environmental pollution. One of these highly pronounced diseases is respiratory diseases. Today you have in the cities every third child who is sick. It's the consequence of us adopting laws like this, and we have no idea what we're adopting, or how seriously we're dealing with it. Of course, there was a bit of a upside-down procedure in 2009. First Law was passed, and the strategy was not even on the pier. By this law, these amendments, it is announced for 2015. We were alive to see if when we got the strategy we'd change the law for the third time, if it didn't change in some way. Thank God we changed some things in this law, which were completely irrational. We, by passing this law in 2009, acted as if we were a respected member of the EU, so we set those kinds of standards, such as that famous Article 53, or 8 in the amendments to the law, where we banned imports, or exports, and the use of single-use tanks, which store substances that damage the ozone layer and fluorinated gases with the greenhouse effect. I'm sorry, I can see a little weaker. I'm already tired. But what is it? Citizens know that these gases have a greenhouse effect and that they are responsible for climate change and for this terrible state in which we breathe over the summer at a temperature of over 40 degrees, although no one declares it. For climate change, of course, we ourselves need to know a lot more than we know and there was an opportunity to talk about the law in that direction, but obviously it's not good to talk about it that way, so we're going to skip that area and we're going to deal with another. It was interesting that many details related to the European Environment Agency's report, which concerns Serbia, were also reported on the occasion. We won't talk much about it either, because we don't have time. What does every citizen of this country mean by everything we miss to say? Not knowing how he behaves and contributes to the fact that we too can influence climate change in our country. I'm going back to this law, so if there's a time to talk about it, I'm going back to the subject. These changes are practically the result of what I said in advance. They do not make anything special new, except now that the government is becoming someone who is a very active factor in making decisions regarding protecting the quality of air and air conditions in Serbia. I also believe that the amendments submitted by the DSS have tried to fix, that the procedure must indeed be made absolutely clear in order for the law to be implemented and that in that sense our amendments are necessary. I'll talk about that later. This applies in particular to the determination of maximum emission values and the adoption of sublegal acts. Speaking of sublegal acts, the question arises whether it is possible, of course, not to dispute that they are and how important for law enforcement, for effective law enforcement, and, of course, only a few have been passed in this area, was very much missing, but the promoter says that by 2013, which is another few months, will bring sublegal documents for Articles 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7. It's five sublegal documents, and by the end of 2015 it's going to bring in another one, which is a lot and which is really a problem. I have very little time left to say a few words about the report that the Environment Protection Agency has delivered to the Committee on the Protection of the Environment which is very important and the elements of this report are very important for the citizens of Serbia, and we will, practically, by changing this law and changing what there is no fund, contribute to the fact that we will not be able to do monitoring or air, and when you do not have monitoring, you do not have a response from the state to how we are going to fix the situation. We have proposed to the amendments that it is best to return the Environmental Protection Fund and it is the best mechanism to actually implement projects from this area, and air monitoring is this project, monitoring water is this project, the agency is slowly extinct, you have no more experts, sophisticated expensive equipment stops working, everything that was made as a network slowly dying. Find a modus, that's very important. I'm not getting into the concept. It's very important to find a modus. We suggested that you start with a budget fund where the money from what the polluter pays for will be seen again and re-influenced in the environment. If you don't, if what happens today happens, I'm afraid that the Serbia that you're leading towards the EU won't be there very soon, because it will ask you there what air is like and what you're doing with contaminants like thermal power plants, heating, traffic and everything else. Please return the fund or find new ways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10604	Thank you. National MP Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10605	Dear President, honourable ministers, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Law on Encouragements in Agriculture and Rural Development is professionally sufficiently well-conceived, giving new quality to long-term paths and is the first of the laws of this kind in agriculture, although no strategy has yet been adopted for the development of agricultural and rural areas in general. We have one remark right at the beginning, and that's the name of the law. Minister, we'd like you to respect us. We'll make an amendment to that. We believe that the law should read - the law on incentives in agriculture and the restoration of villages. The law, according to us, should be evicted - rural development, rural areas and instead write - the restoration of villages and rural areas. In the last century, Prince Milos gave direction through orders as laws are being written. The second commandment of these is -- I want all foreign words to be left out completely and to be asked for Serbian words. We shouldn't be looking for Serbian words here. We've got enough dictionary here to use it. Why not introduce the Serbian village and the Serbian peasant to Europe as our identity and our contribution. We write laws for citizens, we write them for Europe, and we write them primarily for citizens. We've put this in the amendment, and I'd like you to reconsider. We should go back to our original language. In 1993, at a cooperative assembly in Užica, a famous cooperative said - in hill-mounted villages, peasants run the last round. I think the time has come in 2013 to say that farmers in all of Serbia are running the last round, if we don't take this chance. The law writer says - 44% of the country's residents live in villages, but he didn't say the age structure, and we know it well here, especially in the mountainous and mountainous areas, he didn't say about the delicacy of the plots, the MPs said here before me, and he didn't tell us what our condition is if it's an old mechanism and how much we have it. In short, we also need the necessary revitalization of the village as a whole. When we talk to people in the field, in the villages, I live, in circumstances, in the village, it's totally mistrust with the state government, because so far the villagers have been good to this country only in the war, when there is a crisis, which is the present time, and at the time of the election. That's when everyone runs, all the politicians and the others, in the villages and explain. The time has come to truly deal with the village. That, Mr. Minister, we need to change right now. What do we suggest? Develop an urgent strategy for rural development and agriculture. With that strategy, it's a trial document from which all these laws come out and one of these laws is this law. There's more. It's not just farming the basic condition of living in the country. We need to create a general environment, what you were talking about at the beginning, so we can live in the country normally. It is necessary to pass the regulations quickly, as it says in this law, immediately after the adoption of laws and other sublaws. Finally, it is necessary to constantly monitor the effects resulting from this law and to have a timely and rapid impact on their change, in order to improve life in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10606	National MP Teodora Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10607	Dear President, honourable ministers, honourable fellow Members of the People, when we talk about the area of agriculture, there are many times the minister himself said, and fellow MPs, that this matter has been arranged. We have the Agricultural and Rural Development Act, we have the Rural Development Programme by 2013. It is being prepared, as the minister said, a programme or strategy that should cover the period from 2014. We know he's in preparation. What we expect is this programme that should define the measures, procedures and funding of our agriculture from the EU budget. When a specific law is passed, related exclusively to incentives in rural development, then it is normal that expectations are high from it. The bill sets out a number of incentives in agriculture, as well as in rural development, but one of the objectives, as stated in the explanation, and as the minister stated, that the adoption of such a law is, in fact, the creation of clear conditions and predictability for people dealing with agriculture. It is the highest demand of farmers, and that is always the request of businessmen. It's so much easier to do things when you know in advance what conditions await you. What we don't get with this law is precisely that predictability, because many measures, there will be regulations, there will be regulations, there will be various instructions left to bring by the minister and the government. So there are certain minimums, some parts are defined by the maximum incentive, but there remains a large space that can change from year to year, and that's not enough for some cultures. We all know, most of us, if we don't come from agricultural families or we don't deal with agriculture, we live next to families that deal with agriculture, every day we have opportunities to meet these people, we know that for some cultures, when February comes to you, March, it's too late for you to plan, because you plan for the previous summer, because we know that many cultures are sitting in the autumn. In order to have complete predictability, this law had to further specify the conditions, so that these conditions would not be left at year to year, practically from budget funds. If funds are planned in a budget of at least 5% of the total budget, then it is expected that from year to year we have more and more funds reserved for the area of agriculture, which means that we should get less and less into trouble, in the sense that we cannot encourage them and respect them. On the other hand, some elements have been combined in creating conditions and precision. So, is the surface just enough to determine the incentive? Could there be a combination of surfaces and offerings? When I talk about offerings, I think about quality and quantity. Another point is that the bill speaks of incentives for farmland. We are with our amendments, and in my speech, I insist that it be considered to define itself as processed but also processed agricultural land. So the national interest isn't just to encourage arable land, because then we come to have a parlogus, and that's not in the interest, at least in the national interest, and it's not at all in the interest of developing such an important area for our country. The next thing you know, it's exactly what I mentioned, and these are combined incentives. In the draft law, incentives are practically based on, incentivising market production, which is not disputed. This excludes the production considered to be for personal use. It is very important that when a self-satisfactory rural household produces for its own needs and with small non-essential market participation, it contributes to the maintenance of its family, because in this way it contributes, in fact, to reducing from the list of waiting for employment and we have actually solved the existence of certain families. I would especially point out in this part of my own production and combined way of incentivising the chain of agricultural production. If we only encourage extreme products here, and we know at the same time that in the world, very good results in agriculture are actually given by that farm that's in the chain. If, for example, someone produces blood plants, at the same time, has herds, which according to our regulations is for our own benefit, but at the same time, it is also a final product, and all together contributes to one successful agricultural production. For this reason, and for reasons not to distinguish between those producers who work only for the sale of plant products and those who use them to further improve their agricultural households, it would be good to think about some combined incentives, precisely for such holdings. In particular, I would like to order Article 13. It's a bill of law. It was never clear to me personally why we actually need to ban something? Why has a ban on direct incentives been made by local self-government and the province? In the context of the public debate, there were a lot of objections and it was partly appreciated. It is respected at the insurance premiums, in the regression in some parts and in credit support. If agriculture is our national priority, if by improving agriculture the fastest we can fix our external trade balance, on the other hand, we have a very good local and regional policy of fostering agriculture, why did we need to limit our sources of incentives for agriculture? In this way, we would only get more funding, and it is normal for all to take care of the national strategy or the national programme, and normally there should be one record of incentives in agriculture and one co-operation, communication and coordination, in order to make the best use of all the resources that are never sufficient. The second part of this question is both the question and the minister. Maybe I couldn't find enough in the text of the law, since I'm not an agricultural expert. Let's say, in this part of the local incentive, it's very interesting fruit growing, vineyarding, flowering, did I not find them directly within these measures, encouraging the purchase of seedlings and what else is needed for the development of fruit growing, viticulture and flora? It is precisely some local and regional priorities where, if it is not a national interest somewhere, it could use the funds of local and rural funds for these opportunities that we have and should make the most of them. Part two of the law refers to rural development. I'd agree with all the colleagues who used to say it was an extremely important area. I must say, in this part, my personal expectations, but the expectations of others living in the country, were greater than what we received from this bill. In this part of the bill is too general. There's everything, but it's very difficult for you to manage, because it's too high a level of generality. It was supposed to be more concrete and turned differently. So in this part, it's more at the stage of the declaration than it was prepared in the phase of the law. We're talking about improving infrastructure by local self-government, and at the same time we're not giving one goal, or to see what this infrastructure is going to be like, we definitely need to level the infrastructure in the village with the infrastructure in the city, to stay in the country. Then, in providing the same conditions for children in the country as for children in the city, when it comes to preschool institutions, health care. What is missing here and what is also a very important area are women in the country. The position of women in the country is practically very difficult. In this section on support, there is no special support planned for women's entrepreneurship on rural development. I also lack support for traditional production that would be very important for our promotion and for our development of agricultural production. I think we're a country that has something to offer in that sense. At the same time, in the part of rural development, it is very important to build processing facilities, the incentive for wine production, for the processing of fruit, for the processing of meat, etc., and here some colleagues talked about the processing of livestock meat, etc. That's very important. What I think we need in particular strategic partners, which the minister said is one of the goals, in addition to increasing the agrarian budget, clear conditions, predictability, finding strategic partners, and what is more important to me is to find strategic partners precisely in the construction of processing facilities, rather than in the processing of agricultural land. In the end, I would like to talk about professional agricultural services, and I would say more about the education of farmers. As far as the education of farmers is concerned, she has now organized much better than she was, but certainly not enough. What is expected is that these professional agricultural services that are advisory for farmers are available to them, i.e. to have better dispersion throughout the country. When it comes to education, certainly something I would mention is that education is important not only with pure teaching but with visual production. Good results are given when the agricultural producer on the spot can be introduced to the way it is produced. It's much more effective than literature. Very good results certainly in the education of farmers, in addition to our production plots, are their ability to travel and travel to other countries and in concrete examples to see other people dealing with agriculture in a modern way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10608	The word has a folk letter from Slavica Saveljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10609	Mr. Ministers and representatives of the ministry, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the URS decided that due to the importance of the topic and different degrees of development and representation of agricultural cultures in various parts of Serbia on the proposal for a law on promotion in agriculture and rural development, representatives of different regions, Vojvodina, Shumadija and eastern Serbia also speak. No matter what region we come from, we share the fact that in this bill we see an ambitious undertaking and an attempt to bring stability into agri-political policy and that this area is finally being system-edited. Serbia is a country with very great potential in agriculture and this represents our great developmental chance, but unfortunately, given the state of agriculture, we have not taken advantage of anything in particular. For the past few years, we can't say that we have had some consistent agricultural policy, more that it has changed as the agriculture ministers have changed. Such a situation has affected that agricultural producers feel insecure because almost never at the moment of planning their production knew what they could expect from the state. On the other hand, although there is a lot of talk about the village, about its development, about plans, the fact is that our villages are getting poorer, getting older with a growing population, that many areas are extinct. Our offerings are among the lowest in Europe. Our agricultural production is expensive. She's not rentable. She's not competitive. It's a very low level of agricultural processing. The machinery's out of date. The small areas are irrigated, and the plots for production are very narrowed down. This is why the URS sees in this bill the first step in establishing a predictable agricultural policy in the long term. It defines a fairly rich set of measures and incentives of importance for farmers, and this particularly refers to the planned amount of funds that is now clearly defined by this law to a minimum of 5% of the republican budget. On the other hand, the orientation to invest in livestock as one of the primary branches especially if the situation in this area is known and how poor the livestock stock is and that livestock farming is most endangered, we must assess as a positive measure that special incentives are given to this area. The law also provides for two types of incentives for plant production at the specified minimum amount per area of the so far, but we expect the minister to give us a little more precise and detailed information on which types of plant production this refers, in fact – whether it applies to everything, because I think it would be very important for farmers to have a clear picture of whether they can count on subsidies from the state at the time of planning their plant production. When I say that, I especially mean the field of fruit growing, wine growing, vegetable production, flower production and mushrooms. In many regions, such is, above all, the Shumadija from which I come, just as fruit growing is the most prospective branch of agriculture that even generates very significant revenues from exports, and under orchards in Serbia is not a small area. It's over 239,000 acres. Investment in these branches can also contribute to a balanced regional development and make these regions run, areas that are less or less developed today, and by geographical, climate and land conditions have the opportunity to develop these branches of agriculture. What has proved to be very good is the proposing's willingness to accept proposals and suggestions from the public debate, and this specifically refers to the role of autonomous provinces and local self-government. The original proposal did not allow these units to make direct payments but only to provide investment and credit support. From Kragujevac, as a city that started in 2005 in an expansion agricultural investment policy in the rural area, the initiative came, and I believe that there have been such initiatives elsewhere, to extend the powers of local self-government and to allow everyone in their midst to see needs and perspectives, and to allocate funds and investment in those branches that are most prospective in the region in line with their opportunities and development plans. That is also the original part of the party's programme, together with Shumadi, which among the first of its local budget, has this kind of funding and positioned. Now the local self-governments that have been defined for the incentive agrarian policy will also be able to establish support measures for crop insurance premiums, fruits, multi-annual so far, rasti and animals, storage costs regression, artificial insemination and credit support, but we would like to see these opportunities given to local self-governments more. If the support of the country is adequate for farmers, and this means that regional differences are respected and that small holdings and small producers are fully respected, the local self-government that wants to invest in agrarian policy can also focus its resources on other projects that improve the life and standards of people in the country. I will remind Serbia that there are over 750,000 rural households, and that more than 90% of them are small with the densest representation south of Sava and Danube that we should never neglect. In the end, I think it is really very good that this register of incentives is being established in agriculture because this creates conditions not only for quantitative data monitoring but also for the essential analysis of the effects of the incentives given, as well as for defining the plans for the next period, which creates a long-term and predictable agrarian policy, which we need extremely. Mr. Minister, the URS MPs will support the passing of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10610	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10611	Thank you, Madam Chairman. National MPs, ministers, Serbian agriculture and the food industry are the only branch of the Serbian economy that has had a positive external trade balance for years and over 21% participate in RS exports. Unfortunately, like this country and agriculture, it has been a continuous transition for many years, and if we remember the period from 2004 to 2007, the fact is that investment credit measures, as well as support for rural development, have produced exceptional results. After that period, the concepts of the Ministry of Agriculture are changed in such a way that incentives and subsidies, i.e. the payment system, are implemented towards the area of farmland and by the number of cattle throats. This law knows direct payments, and the fact is that 80% of the assets in the agricultural budget go to milk premiums, to regressions, to loans, to subsidies for plant and livestock production. Let's see who got these subsidies, how he invested them, how much he spent, if there was any abuse in all this. There are about 500,000 masculine cows in Serbia. Of these, 170,000 are in the territory of the AP Vojvodina and 330,000 in the rest of Serbia. By this law you provide incentives of 20,000 to a single cow. It's a good thing it applies to everyone. As in the previous period, it was not necessary for the ownership to have four cows in order to receive certain subsidies. If we compare it to six years of practice, then we know that the peasants who didn't own four cows had a huge loss, or they couldn't achieve certain subsidies. In the draft law, in Article 15, you predict that for cow's milk premiums, a person must surrender at least 3,000 liters of cow's milk per quarter. The math says it's 1,000 liters a month. Statistics say, I don't know if that's true, that the wrapped cows give 4,500 liters of milk a year in Serbia, which is a disastrously bad result, but that's right. In order to qualify for a premium of seven dinars per litre, the manufacturer must produce 1,000 litres of milk per month, or 35 litres of milk per day. In order to achieve that, he must have at least three cows, provided that none of them are rock, provided that we know that the lactation period lasts for 305 days, that there are no other problems. If all this exists, he must have five cows. The average in Serbia, in the rest of Serbia, van Vojvodina, is between two and three cows, which means it is very difficult to achieve the subsidy. This means that our farmer in Šumadia loses, say, 30,000 dinars a year for subsidies, that is, milk premiums plus those 20,000 that he has not achieved because he has not had enough number of cattle times six years and that's about 300,000 dinars. So close to 3,000 euros a year times six years. That's one serious amount he couldn't make and get out of the budget. Also, in this article you predict 1,500 liters of cow milk per quarter in areas with difficult production conditions. The rule is, I think it expires in February of this year, it's brought to three years. There are different criteria. Some cities, some municipalities are taxing themselves here. I don't understand why Ariel, why King, why Uzits, why Cereals. Were there any policies or were there really reasonable reasons to help these municipalities? I can understand about Bosilegrad, about Raska, about Vladic's Han, about Kursumlia, some places that don't have the opportunity to carry out agricultural production properly. This is clearly seen from the table you gave in the explanation. According to the amount of milk delivered, it means in millions of liters, in 2011 191 million, and the premium milk of 136 million. Fifty-five million gallons of milk has not been premiumed. In the last year, 200 million were handed over, and 159 was passed away. So 41 million gallons of milk is handed over on the basis that agricultural producers, or our peasants, didn't get it, whether it's a five dinar exit, six dinars or seven, is completely irrelevant. The government prescribes for each financial year a certain amount of funds, a kind of incentive, their height. Let's try to think differently, to divide that amount equally into everything, to give everyone an equal chance. It doesn't have to be a milk premium for seven dinars. It could be six dinars, five dinars, but everybody gets it. I think that's how it's going to make a certain amount of money, get a boost, even a quarterly payment, not to go monthly. I know it's a complicated procedure, but I think it would mean every manufacturer. I don't know when I come to the store, I buy milk cheaper than seven dinars because a certain manufacturer made a premium on a liter of milk. This law has some good solutions. He is expected to improve agricultural production, he should increase efficiency, he should raise Serbian agriculture's competitiveness, but he does not foresee in any of his provisions a protection mechanism for the Serb peasant because of the harmful consequences he will have due to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which will have a devastating effect on Serbian agriculture in 2014. No one can convince me that the Serbian peasant will be competitive with any European Union producer and will be able to compete with the same relations on this market. Today we also heard from the Democratic Party, which has recently been advocating the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement in 2014. It will be a great shame for the Serbian economy. We're ready to help with that. As the DSS parliamentary group, we have submitted a series of amendments with the best intention of correcting this text of the law, preventing smuggling, don't lie to us not to know that thousands of trucks orbit Serbia daily with a certain quantity of cattle. You know of Draginje near Šapco, 152 Tamic burns in that town every morning and moves on Serbia with smuggled meat. You know how much trouble vets have. Let's protect one profession, her dignity and her profession. Do you know what it's like? By protecting the health of Serbian citizens, by introducing the obligation to examine, control all animals. It exists now. It doesn't cost anything, but there are people who don't want to let something like that happen, and then we have a situation where certain diseases, such as brucellosis, leukosis, tuberculosis in cows, are transmitted to humans. So I urge you once again, with the full support of the DSS, to finally put Serbian agriculture, our country's greatest developmental chance, on stable legs, in the long run to deliver good results. Accept our amendments to correct this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10612	The word has the People's MP Vesna Stepic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10613	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I come from the Sword, from an extremely agrarian area and I want to look back on the proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. Serbia is a highly agrarian country, with a large number of agricultural holdings. About 450,000 agricultural holdings registered in the register, which is slightly more than half the total number of owners using incentive measures. Other agricultural holdings are non-commercial. These are mostly nursing households which are unable to monitor modern agricultural production and are not market-oriented. Nearly three-quarters of agricultural holdings have small holdings, ranging from three to five hectares of land. The size of agricultural land plots is about 30 acres. In the long term, ownership must be pooled through various measures of agrarian policy, inheritance, change in fiscal policy, conditions of lending of agricultural production, construction of infrastructure, construction of small processing facilities. When adopting these incentive measures, small holdings should be taken into account so that they can deal with intensive agricultural production in these difficult economic conditions. First of all, I mean vegetable production, greenhouse and plastic production, growing intensive fruit and vineyard cultures, raising small processing facilities, small wineries, building a system for watering and dealing with rural tourism. These are just some species that enable the successful operation of small agricultural holdings. Many rural areas have an unfavourable demographic structure, often very far from large cities with unfavourable traffic infrastructure, so that the village would be revitalised and thus become more attractive for young people to deal with entrepreneurship and the formation of family enterprises that primarily employ their family members, and in particular the development of rural tourism. With the development of rural tourism, on the one hand, young people would stay in the country to live and form their families, and on the other hand, they would sell their agricultural products to tourists with modern marketing and modern design of their products with motives characteristic of the area where they are located. With such advanced agricultural production and with new investments, domestic and foreign, permanent education of farmers on new achievements in agriculture and production, it would allow the survival and return of young people to the countryside, increased population birth, increased income per unit of area with reduced production costs, as well as increased competitiveness of our products on the world food market. Every dinar invested in agriculture in the same year returns multiple times. Each year, the Republic of Serbia loses about four to six thousand hectares of agricultural land in the construction of infrastructure, which is traffic, railways, suburban settlements, construction buildings and others, which can only be compensated by increased investment in agriculture in order to make up for the yields due to lost agricultural land. The government of the Republic of Serbia in extremely difficult times is making a huge effort to allocate significant funds from the agricultural and village development budget through the agrarian budget. The previous government's work largely included regulations that were often not respected, but for the first time, the new Government of the Republic of Serbia seriously and responsibly proposed a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, where investments in agriculture are approached in a different way. Furthermore, the government of the Republic of Serbia is going in two directions. The first one will provide funds from its own budget through agrarian and budget, and the second one is investment foreign funds. The government provides funds for investment in gulf and recovery of agricultural machinery through arrangements with the United Arab Emirates, which will significantly contribute to improving the conditions for export and competitiveness of agricultural products. I therefore believe that the proposed measures should be supported by the law on incentives in agriculture and rural development and any other measures that the Government is taking in order to further improve and develop our agriculture. As an MP, I absolutely support all these measures because I speak as an agronomist and as a member of a family that has been engaged in agricultural production for decades. Since I have often been with agricultural producers, I have had the opportunity to hear their reactions and accept with great pleasure and demand that the proposed measures be taken as soon as possible, because it is on the threshold of spring so that the proposed funds can reach the agricultural producers as quickly as possible, so that the crops can be done in time and in time, so that the year can be more barberish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10614	The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10615	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, citizens and citizens of Serbia, I will begin my presentation with a brief review of the area governed by the Law on Air Protection, and as a member of the Committee on Environmental Protection, where we are at the committee's pre-lated session of the Environment Protection Agency informed that by the decision on the government's budget of the Republic of Serbia, the closure of the Environment Fund has been called into question by measuring the quality of air for 2013. Since the ruling majority uniquely supported this, it also unanimously rejected the proposal to create a budget fund to monitor the flow of green, so-called. green money, ecological money in Serbia, and then the fund financed activities. Among other things, the Environmental Protection Agency. Since the agenda points are related, we can link them to agriculture, we can say that by giving so much authority to the finance minister in our hands, we may have endangered the citizens of Serbia, or denied them information on the quality of the fruit and vegetables produced, or how air affected the quality of agricultural products at the end of the year. There is no need to waste words about how important Serbia's agriculture is for our economy, for our citizens, for all the people who deal with it, and that is why this debate by DS MPs will not be so party-colored, but we will look to amendments and amendments and we are looking to help this text of the law to make it better. I'll be brief, and it'll be clear to the citizens that I've found. Article 13 of the Law sets out the way in which autonomous provinces and local self-government are implementing agricultural policy. In principle, it gives the province consent to implement agricultural policy but with previous and subsequent consent. I think that by conditioning someone to the previous consent is actually in some way a continuation of the trend that we can see in certain legal proposals where the autonomy of the AP Vojvodina is unthinked, because now it's not just about the relationship with the organs or people who make up the organs of the AP Vojvodina, it's about the voters who choose these organs. If we do not trust that an autonomous province chosen by the will of citizens and citizens of the AP Vojvodina is not able without any prior and subsequent consent to carry out certain measures in agricultural policy, I think it is primarily an attack and is not a good attitude towards citizens. Perhaps it was better, given that, of course, it should be important for all parts of the Republic of Serbia to implement a common policy, that it might have been better if you had given a 15-day period to pay the compensation for certain measures, not the previous one. We've also submitted amendments to this, and I'm going to explain by a simple example, why I think it's important not to give the minister such great authority. I think it's better that the government had a regulation to bring some measures into agricultural policy, and then the ministry got permission to carry out those measurements, for the simple reason that I was preparing for this law and reading it, when he came to the envelopes here as material, searching for forums dealing with that area, so we could see representatives of some other political parties that are now part of the ruling coalition, which are criticising this law. First of all, I think of Mrs Ivana Dulic Markovic, who, if I am not mistaken, was the creator of the URS policy in agriculture. Today, the U.S. MPs say they will vote for this. I think it's better that either the government and one control mechanism for agricultural policy and it's made up of different political groups, and maybe it's better that the government has prescribed the measures by regulation that you as a minister and your ministry are carrying out, just out of control and not being in the power of one minister alone. An important thing is lost for agriculture, which is predictability, it may not be lost, but when a minister himself can prescribe conditions, it is a danger that lies ahead of all of us. We hope that you will adopt our amendment that draws closer to us defines the way in which the register will be entered so as to prevent someone from getting a subsidy just because they have reported a certain agricultural land. For the last time, I won't be long, I think the theme here today is that someone is against it, and all of this has been followed by the atmosphere about signing a contract with a company from the United Arab Emirates, that someone is against major foreign investment. It is a serious company and no one in Serbia can be against it. What my suggestion to you as Minister and as Government is that doubts about certain procedures are removed by transparency of a particular procedure as we have in a recent case in the past, when it comes to the Kosovo and Metohija resolution, we also had a debate which could have been concluded much earlier that all the facts concerning the debate were public. It is simply that our farmers have the right to respond quickly and unequivocally in a public process to why they can't compete or can, and under certain conditions for the country, because tens of hundreds of families in various villages in Serbia provide their existence and, of course, have the right to demonstrate certain reserves. What the DS has also said here is, and I am not inclined to say that any political party in Serbia, regardless of the political differences that exist between us, was glad at certain times that some suspicious past, criminal pasts are managed by certain combinations. Simply for 2010 the Privatisation Agency annulled the privatisation of certain combinations. It's shaped so-called. The "green pulse" where machinery, procurement and many other things were common, and in 2011 profits were recorded in these combinations. So as far as DS is concerned, you'll have maximum consideration and seriousness on our side when it comes to this topic. As a Banacan, I am counting on the importance of agriculture for our citizens, and I hope that our amendments in the debate will be accepted in detail. It's just another appeal for you, and it's about starting my discussion on the Air Protection Act. We witnessed the fact that the presidency of your political party was convened when a certain staff issue was questioned by your coalition partner. I think it is much more important that you call on your political party's presidency when it becomes clear this year that, due to lack of funds and the self-will of the finance minister, Serbia will not be able to measure air pollution, which is why, among other things, your job as a minister of agriculture, when it comes to food control, will be questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10616	The word has a folk letter from Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10617	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, dear fellow MPs, I intend to focus my focus on today's debate on the proposal for a law on fostering agriculture not so much on the proposed solutions, but on focusing on some of the events that clearly explain the phenomenon that can explain why we have so far failed to realise the generally accepted idea of agriculture as our most important strategic branch and the biggest export project, although there has always been a consensus of all the political factors about it. It is said that this commitment was the most disruptive of the way previous or, better yet, previous authorities treated it. In short, it seems that agriculture was only a chance for some, whether they sat directly in one of the authorities or represented the interests of those who saw in the agrarian only one way to increase their and such enormous wealth at the expense of all the poorer farmers and the collapse of that branch, as well as society in general. How else do you explain high-intensity attacks on a project with the United Arab Emirates, using their political supporters and followers who deliberately believe that any attack on the move of this government is a good opportunity for them to be politically exposed and scored? Yesterday's power centers are trying to sabotage any and all attention worth trying to get things off a dead end in the agrarian, even with other people's money, or funds for those willing foreign investors. The real media heifer is trying to deter investors interested in investing in our agriculture. What the people would say is they're slaughtering a kilo of meat. Since they already like to represent themselves as a constructive opposition, wouldn't it be better to involve themselves and help with how a project can be realized, instead of just nagging why something can't because it's the only thing that matters to them, not what can be done, and to preserve the interests of their hidden masters, above all? Such examples of sabotage of the general interest will be likely and unfortunately more and more as it will be done towards the elimination of the monopoly that individuals and stakeholders have created for years in the area of agriculture, as well as in other branches of course. In general, I believe that the key thing is to end once and for all with a devastating practice that the interest of individuals and groups above the interests of society and the state, with the greatest use of power for that matter, and all of this has been guaranteed by the flossules on the protection of national interests, respect for the law and similar cover-ups exclusively designed for the cover-up of secular actions on which the current ruling set-ups have dominated their conduct of state affairs. I wanted to take this opportunity to introduce you to an equally flagrant example of order of general interest of special and individual interest. At the end of last year, we were contacted by Mr Miodrag Stankovic of Valjev, otherwise the largest Serbian exporter of chinchillas, who, except in Serbia, has registered companies in the Czech Republic and Argentina. Mr. Stankovic says that the farmers were making one of the victims of the previous government that never even noticed them, let alone subsidized them, and that they remembered them... (President: Please return to the topic. It's about the subject, Madam Chairman. ... And that they only remembered them when they decided to lift them, even though they never asked the state to do anything but let them do it. All Serbian chinchilla farms have been raised from their own resources, without credit, and the job works thanks to the ability to self-determin and especially thanks to the performance of the job itself, which is completely out-of-work, and based on entirely domestic resources with unlimited plasma opportunities and time by quantities with functional co-operative contracts and short deadlines for paying the rent, a real family business of which hundreds of Serbian families live as basic or complementary activities, and there have been many more until the previous government has set them a yellow beam since 2019. Furthermore, they argue that the interest of Serbian chinchilla farmers outweighed the interest of a group of people who are very well paid abroad to love animals... (President: Mrs Stosic, please return to the topic. ) If alternative livestock is not a topic, then what can we talk about? You know, I was caught too. I didn't know anything about this either, but this is really a matter that's very important... (President: There is no need to argue, please return to the topic. ) The real truth here is avoided by a pure replacement of thesis, great words and humanity, while avoiding the fact that the largest fur producers are the EU countries and the new and the growing furskins do not interfere with the progress towards Eurointegration, as no pre-negotiation with the Emirates violates any law. To be clear, this is not the first story of the sheik's money, nor the chinchillas, nor the agrarian, or the agrarian as a lonely case, this is a matter of principles, better said of the abolition of principles which dictated the practice so far, where the power was exclusively the interests of a few powerful men and their flock who for obedience received remnants from the over-rich tables of ever-defying powerful men, where only the crumbs were left to the common people, with the possibility of passing as Belgrade sparrows or as a Serb village. In the end, it comes in the same way. So today it is difficult to find the right measure to regulate the area of incentives in agriculture. Because of this, it may be best to work parallelly to the destruction of weeds and pests that come out on their own as soon as they feel that they are under their feet getting out of their fertile soiled powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10618	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10619	The Honorable Chairman, when I mentioned a topic that really had something to do with the agenda, you warned me to finish the sentence. The previous speaker never mentioned in a single word the law that is today on the agenda. I'm referring to Articles 106 and 107. She talked about chinchillas, Emirates, previous authorities, and I don't know what that has to do with the law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. Chairman, you have unequal criteria for MPs. The letter spoke of a subject outside the agenda, thus destroying the reputation of the National Assembly. If the opposition could have this very delicate topic, possibly for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, overcome and in some way talked about the subject of the agenda, why are you allowing MPs of the positioning party, whose minister sits here, to talk about chinchillas and Emirates that have nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure? Why didn't you give notice to the messengers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10620	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, I didn't warn you either, I warned you, as I warned the previous speaker, so I think I did the same thing with one and another MP. So I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you'd like, we can get to the voter's vote on that. Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10621	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising article 108 on article 106. In its 1st position, article 108 says – the National Assembly meeting is held by the president of the National Assembly. In its 1st position, Article 106 says - the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. A former colleague abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure by taking his right to lead the session in order and to assess the subject of the agenda. So, I responsibly claim that you did not harm the Rules of Procedure, given that you warned your colleague, despite her sticking to the subject and saying that chinchilla growers do not seek any subsidies, and that breeding has been done by some kind of livestock. So she talked about it, and I think it was in line with the agenda and the subject. You warned her, and I felt that this was not exactly in line with the Rules of Procedure, and a former colleague gave himself the right to take care of him personally and to personally assess who violated the Rules of Procedure, who spoke about the subject and who did not speak about the subject. So, we are here to witness that the opposition is brutally abusing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, making up for some of its time. I have no objection to the opposition's positive discrimination, but there must be some measure in all of this, and we have witnessed in particular that two MPs from a smaller group of MPs almost half their time in their performances have used the violation of the Rules of Procedure. So, I don't mind the positive discrimination of the opposition, but I think that often the Rules of Procedure is interpreted to the detriment of the majority. I think my colleague was holding quite a subject, that the farming was the subject of this law, since she said that the breeders weren't looking for any subsidies. They just want to do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10622	Since both the opposition and the position feel that I have violated the Rules of Procedure, I have the impression that I seem to be doing my job well, since on the one hand and on the other, it causes dissatisfaction with the way I conduct the session. I won't allow you a replica, Mr. Risticevic. Let's move on. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10623	Can you let us know about the remaining time?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10624	The remaining time is 25 minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10625	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I share your enthusiasm for your impartiality and thank you for that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, here today we can discuss several different aspects, similar and different topics, but when they are united, so we will talk about them. When we talk about the Law confirming the International Treaty on Plant and Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture, we believe that the adoption of a national strategy for the conservation of the genetic agricultural fund is of great importance. Government, i.e. The competent ministry should determine the parameters of providing this strategy, a description of the current situation of the Fund, to provide guidance on the development of the genetic fund conservation system, above all as good of national importance. By passing laws on the genetic fund for agricultural production, it should cover all organisms, both plant and animal, that originate from these areas and represent indigenous varieties. Then, a description of how to store, store genetic material, competent collection and storage facilities, the necessary conditions for keeping and financing the facility, and not to come to this point, as an esteemed colleague from the DSS said that only two persons work in that institution. We look forward to the proposal for this treaty because the "green" advocates banning the cultivation of genetically modified organisms, and this is an international framework that only goes in favour of Serbia will probably never deal with GMOs and will not be subject to major pressures from multinational companies. What is particularly important is the National Bank for the Protection of Original National Genetic Resources, and we believe that this bank should be like the NBS, very well provided, that the relationship with such a bank must be at a satisfactory level, not two women who do not have sufficient working conditions. In this sense, "green" will support this convention because we see it as a positive step in the fight against GMOs and thus we are dying voices that are concerned about the topic. When we talk about the Law on Air Protection, let me say a well-intentioned suggestion that the Greens have seen, that the rule on technical and other requirements for liquid fuels of oil origin, will be able to use those fuels by the end of 2015 and will generally have a high percentage of sulphur. However, this goes into conflict with the sublegal regulation of the Air Protection Act, a regulation on the limit values of polluting matter in the air. It forbids the use of these fuels because of high sulphur content on the show, which may seem to mean you can buy fuel to unload the lager, but you'll have a problem if we catch you refueling that fuel. The conditions for the performance of substances that damage the ozone layer should be prescribed by the Government. We agree here, however, that there would be too much pressure if the proposal given by the government, that the permits should also be issued by the government, we think that there would be too much pressure from small operators, at a national level not sufficiently significant. These people could end up in municipalities or cities. In this way, it would show that what we promised when it came to decentralisation, and we are doing the opposite, with the ultimate centralised of everything, we will create a big problem for our citizens and businesses, as well as for small entrepreneurs who are dealing with these affairs. At the end of each of your laws over and over again, unfortunately you're devising the existence of local self-government. The government cannot prescribe measurement and calibration control, because this should be prescribed by an accredited method, if we talk about analyses. It can be said that the measurement method must be accredited by the competent body for accreditation, but in no way can the Government issue certificates and accredited powers to people involved in measuring emissions or measuring emissions in the air. Certificates give certification bodies, not the Government and Serbia currently have several certification bodies, so this with certificates looks like an out-of-standard procedure, unless some association is already scheduled to issue certificates, which would be charged. When we talk further about the Law on Air Protection, we actually come here in trouble with the inability to finance air protection, to fund air monitoring and to monitor air quality, and that is the availability and right of citizens to learn information about the state of the environment. We deny him the right. This year, of 20 automatic monitoring stations, 18 were not serviced and it was not able to do so by the Environment Protection Agency and unfortunately the funds used and collected from the polluter fee, 40% should be returned to control self-government. This has not been happening for seven or eight months and serious air quality monitoring systems have been brought in Obrenovac, Lazarevec, Kostolc, Smederev, Bor and Pancheva. If we don't have air quality monitoring systems in these seven cities, we'll probably have the environment and air quality in first class, and the 2011 agency report shows that in all these cities and regions around the cities this pollution is in third class. Unfortunately, at this point, local self-government can only use local budgets to compensate for the improvement of the environment, and so far the compensation paid by polluters, unfortunately, does not. All your stories about the non-purpose spending of the Environmental Protection Fund fall into the water, since since you have abolished the Environment Fund, absolutely all the funds that enter the budget based on the pollution compensation are likely to be non-intentional, because these are not budget funds but are the intended appropriations that must be used to remove harmful impacts, to improve, to improve the environment, and air monitoring is one of the most important items in that system. The means that you have to have a program to use these funds, and unfortunately we haven't seen it in the air or in the water, or in the land. Unlike the Republic, the city of Belgrade, and this has nothing to do with the DS alone, the city of Belgrade has and is working on the intentional use of the budget fund's funds constantly inform and report to the founder. You kicked out a member of the 71st Fund financing, which is now going into the budget, and the rapporteur at the Environment Committee told us that the minister expects him to plan the budget realistically. The appropriations are not budget funds. The appropriations must be spent to protect the environment, to protect and improve air quality. In this sense, you must make sure that for seven, eight months you have not purposefully spent the funds paid by large contaminants, primarily thermal power plants in Obrenovac and Lazarevec, that those 40% have not returned to Obrenovac or Lazarec, that the citizens of Obrenovac and Lazarec rightly ask when they will receive 40% of the money collected in the territory of these municipalities. Why is it that there is no money and who spends it for pools, who spends it for ski resorts, and where these money is spent, and is not spent to remove the harmful effects of pollution in the environment? We have only one SO2 automatic monitoring in Kostolec, in Lazarevec we have none, PM10 there is none in Kostolec, there is none in Pozarevec, there is none in Lazarevec and you will bring us to the point that because you do not finance the environmental protection system, that one moment we have the perfect environment, because we are not going to measure the state of the environment anywhere, and you will say that we have no indication that the environment in Serbia is terriblely bad, and research shows that. Here, I'm just going to briefly illustrate October 23, 2012 -- it's not working yet, it's not so cold, they're still not making individual bars. They're not even in Obrenovac. There's only one big contaminant and a remote heating system. This line shows maximum concentrations, 24 hours is maximum concentration per hour higher, double higher, and four times higher at a time. Note that almost every third child is born with respiratory problems in Obrenovac, it is very difficult to remove harmful effects and harmful environmental impacts. It is extremely difficult to remove these harmful effects on air quality. There's other research. There are some other days of 11 and 12, and more than 12 hours, it is seen well on this graphic, between four and five times the value of PM10 particles, which can be very harmful to respiratory organs and which can endanger the health of the youngest in Obrenovac, Lazarec. Of course, when we talk about Bor, these results are when it comes to SO2 even more catastrophic and even more difficult. We appeal to you to this air protection law, and we will talk in the day about amendments in detail about each member, to make sure that large pollutants pay the pollution fee, that these funds must be spent on purpose. The majority of your campaign since you became government is based on criticism that the Fund's unintended funds have been spent. For seven months now, you have wasted funds of the Fund, spent resources of Obrenovac, Lazarec, Pancheva, Bora, Smederev, and unfortunately, you invest in projects that you will never complete, projects that will make no child healthier. If you are not interested in anything else, consider children who live in these cities, children who are born with obstructive bronchitis, children who are born with asthma, and keep in mind parents who do not sleep at night because they listen to their child breathe. I'm one of the parents of such a child, and every night I listen to that child breathe, because I live in Obrenovac and so are the people who live in Kostolec, Povorevec, Lazarevec. The easiest way to spend money for anything is not to protect the environment. Unfortunately, you've been doing this for six months. Tomorrow will be a big meeting of local self-government in Paracino, the Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities, to discuss a collapsed system of financing environmental protection in local self-government. If you wanted to understand me well-intentioned, you'd learn some lessons. If, as you have done so far, you reject all amendments to the opposition, the environment will become worse. But the impact of "Green Serbia" in Serbia will grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10626	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10627	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm from Vojvodina, from a small town whose residents are mostly agricultural. I'm very happy that the Agricultural Encouragement Act is on the agenda today. I spent the whole year in the field talking to farmers about their problems and presenting to them the problem of the URS - United for Agriculture. It would be my pleasure to vote in favour of this law for what I promised these farmers and what the URS promised in the election campaign, which is that 5% of the total Republic budget will be allocated to agriculture, which will be realised, that the incentive law will be passed, which will give farmers predictability, security, but also on the other hand, to ensure transparency in spending incentives, that the incentives of the state for investments in agriculture will be returned and that support will be given to just small and medium-sized farmers. Today in Serbia, everyone talks about agriculture as a major resource, as a development chance, that only Vojvodina is a large grain, that it can feed half of Europe or that I don't know what part of Moscow or Russia. Unfortunately, we're just left with resources and potentials. For the past five years, we've had three ministers, three agricultural policies. The farmers were more in our paths than in our fields. It was governed by regulations. It was even seen that some regulations were not intended for farmers, but that they even allowed the robbery of the state and that the money ended up in private pockets. It's high time only from the story that agriculture is a resource and a developmental opportunity to move on to action. This law that is before us today is the first step towards that path. The positive effects of this law have been discussed today and I will not return to it. I would point out only some segments, which is that this law will provide incentives for rural development, which is very important, because if we want people to deal with agriculture, they have to stay living in villages, and we have to provide them with good and quality conditions for it. I'm in the Kovin municipality, and I'm pleasantly surprised, I've met a large number of young farmers who want to stay and live in the country, to be a farmer. It is our duty and obligation to give them a decent life there. The bill will restore investment in agriculture, which means that those farmers who, for example, They want to build a silo, a farm or buy a bay system, they're going to get a grant from the state. What is very important in this law is that the authorities of the province and local self-government will be given the opportunity to encourage farmers themselves in their own territory, which is good. I also call on the province of Vojvodina and other local self-government to allocate more resources in their budgets and encourage farmers on their territory, because they know best what kind of agricultural production is characteristic of their territory. They will also get the opportunity to establish legal entities to support agriculture. This is very important, because every farmer in his municipality needs to get information about when competitions are called, to help them fill out applications, forms, to compete with different funds, and also to get funds from European funds, which we are about to receive. If the incentives are small, there's an objection. But at this point, they can't be bigger. I sincerely hope that with Serbia's economic development these incentives will be greater and what I would ask both the minister and the entire government is to bring in the so-called payment calendar, and that farmers know exactly when they will receive the funds that are intended for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10628	The word has the People's MP Petar Kuntic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10629	Dear Mr. Minister, the President-in-Office, the honourable MPs, after all day and various reflections on this law of incentive and rural development, is hard to say now without repeating myself. I'll at least try some of what we haven't heard about this law before. In fact, it has been said here several times that this law has long been expected and that the skeleton of that law has mostly been seen in some former ministries. But it is not said that this ministry and all the former ministries have insisted on very unfavourable conditions in which the entire agricultural production is being carried out. Namely, since this incentive system is being introduced so that our agricultural producers and all others in the chain of agricultural production would be more competitive on the market, and those who are actually on the market and because of which this is done, they have highly developed productivity in the industry. High productivity in industry rejects income and profit. This profit, through various procedures, is actually going back to their budget and then through these incentives they have cheaper food for these workers who generate that profit, and they are also competitive with exports and each time they expand that production more and more. Unfortunately, with us, the situation is like this, we're getting out of transition, the economy isn't working, and we're doing this procedure that we have to give to those who produce, in fact, we're working out of the budget. And the budget, we saw and we witnessed how full it was when we adopted this budget. There's little in the real sector. That's why there must be a big difference between what the legislator is. The ministry predicted this law, about 6000 per hectare and what is said to be the roof organisation of farmers here in Serbia. The Association of Agricultural Producers predicts 17,000. That's 17,000 if they were in some position to compete with farmers of highly developed countries. Now, for a while it's got to go like that because of all this stuff I said before. Farmers have a good expression for this condition. They say -- we bike, they car, we go to the same market, and now it's just a question of who gets tired before, and it's not even a question of who gets tired sooner. You know who'll get tired sooner. But now it's what it is. I wanted to ask you a question about this 5%, but we've already got an answer. So I won't even talk about it, although I haven't read in the law that it's not going to apply until next year. We said that in the incentive system there are agricultural holdings units of local self-government and other organisations in agricultural land, commercial and non-commercial. But everyone has the same chances of that one agricultural budget, which is now something and increased, but I don't see in those equal chances how we're going to raise that village.? So, regardless of whether we take the Banatian highway, from Djala via Zrenjanin, Kovin, all those villages, or we take the back highway, from Baimok to Novi Sad, it's the same situation. There's great inspectivity, it's very unsatisfactory in the country because there's no money. The easiest thing to do is to raise our village and stop the departure of young and middle-aged people to get their money. The only way to get money is if they're competitive on the market, and this way when 3.9 million hectares, times 6,000, that's more than half the agricultural budget, and with so little money, we won't be able to achieve our goals to raise our village. Let's not forget that one, and that's not a comparison at all, the Netherlands, which is only a little larger than Vojvodina, has a 65 billion-year inflow. In fact, it's supposed to be our ideals, not that we're complaining about how we can and how we can't. I don't see here in this law that's not how to raise that village and that situation in villages that's not good, and you probably see it differently. I also think that the application of this law will cause certain social reactions in the country, because a lot of people are out of work, a lot of people have managed to buy one or two cows, and with this small production, one of their families has been satisfied with this little money, and now they will no longer be able to sell their products. In fact, they'll be able to sell if they join up through cooperatives, etc. What, though, where there is no cooperative? There's been a lot of failed cooperatives. As I prepare for this session, I have seen that one parliamentary group has submitted the amendment that, if they also hand over small producers to you through an association or through a cooperative, incentives come true to names. If you pay it to cooperatives, cooperatives are blocked, half of them are private and the question is whether that money, which is meant for these producers, will come into their hands at all. Also, I am interested, and this has not been mentioned today, perhaps it will be in the regulation – will agricultural producers, or will all those involved in this system of agricultural production have to pay PIO again, to be in the system and to be able to get good? I think that's a good news. It is also said that incentives can be direct payments, rural development measures, specific incentives etc. and penalties are provided for those who do not use it as provided for by the law. But I'm interested in what happens if the state is running late with incentives, what was the practice? Are we going to follow that law that we passed a while ago here in the Assembly, that agricultural producers are going to get a certain interest in that money that didn't arrive in time? That's the same important question, because every time the government finds itself in a situation where there's something else that needs money, and the premium payments and subsidies are eventually. In the end, I would like to ask you, not by entering the political aspect of this today's dilemma – Arabs or paraori, but only a few technical segments. Namely, since a mixed company is scheduled 80:20, is it 100% foreign owner? It's perfectly safe that he wouldn't have the right... (President: Please, this is not the topic of the agenda. You can't ask a parliamentary question now. This morning there was a question of MPs. )......................................................................................................... There's one more question I don't understand today. Chairman, I think there's been a lot of discussion today about this and I'm not getting into the political aspect of this, because I'm interested in technical matters. There was talk of selling state land. So, all these companies are privatized and when it goes into the privatisation system, there's a separation in that P1, E1 pattern to social and state countries. As far as I can tell, the social part is being sold, and the state is being leased. That's what to say. You don't sell state land because you can't sell it. I'm sorry you didn't let me ask you, because this is a key question of this law. If you let them as neighbors who have the right to prevent buying when they sell some land as a mixed enterprise... It will be regulated by a bilateral agreement that is beyond domestic legislation and I think that everything will be clear and then maybe it won't be bad. I'd like an answer to those few questions. That's what I'd end up with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10630	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10631	Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues, I will refer only to the Agricultural Encouragement Act from another point of view, and I will try to speak in that language, which, as my colleagues have expressed, is a pair, and I will say a Serbian peasant. It's a Serbian language, and I'm going to talk about subsidies, about the money the state needs to give him to produce more food because the Serbian peasant has come out and preserved this country and fed it, and God help me and defend it. Whenever the wars were over or when the Serbian peasants started, it was he who was mobile and there were no questions how he would bring it out, how his family and his country, which is owned by him, would support itself while he defends the state, and when he returned, he remained in prison. That's how it is today. The law is good as to start implementing a process of approaching the EU Agriculture Law and large subsidies for agricultural producers. for a Serbian peasant. However, we have one problem – what will subsidize one peasant country when our agricultural producers simply stopped dealing with cattle, stopped dealing with the processing of their country because they had no means to do so so so far, so they were giving the land in rent, slaughtering and selling the cattle to customers. Now we need to raise that eastern front again. You need to re-elevate everything that has died over the past ten or more years and bring into some real state so that this Encouraging Law has the right meaning of that word, which is to subsidize production. In the past ten years, numerous privatisations have been made. This would focus first and foremost on the privatisation of agricultural cooperatives that were the backbones of just such producers that bought up almost all the crops and agricultural crops and cattle from farmers in advance. The privatisations brought it into the hands of the tycoons, it came into the hands of individuals, and the unhinged and foreign companies who, regardless of whether they had the right to buy a company with us or not, they did it. The state is slowly dealing with such things, and here today no one has mentioned such a kind of reckoning, which is that the country goes back to where it is intended, and that is to the shareholders, above all, who created these agricultural cooperatives. First of all, it was preceded by the Privatisation Agency that trampled on everything small shareholders have created for decades. They were undoing every attempt to bring something to justice, to make the earth and all the things that people created return to where they belong. I believe in the government of Serbia and its authorities that in the coming period they will come to order, and such services and such state bodies because they couldn't have the one everyone here mentioned to buy ten percent of the country alone in Vojvodina. It was probably made possible by someone from the state authorities, and I am apostrophe of the Privatisation Agency that appeared everywhere whether it was a bankruptcy manager, whether it was as a signer of the contract, etc. The few who have stayed to produce, to work on the few lands they have preserved without renting to the bosses, they will rejoice in this law. I believe that in the coming period, the Ministry will single out these few and give them a greater incentive so that they can deal with their agriculture and make food out of it and above all for what is called the citizens of Serbia. The villages are empty. The cities are full. I need someone to produce it. Someone needs to do it. Technology's old. I believe the Ministry takes care of that, and that some of the next laws he's passed and proposed here will have that kind of incentive, that is. lending if possible through grace periods of grants to restore machinery, so that people who use this Encouragement Act have more motives and reasons to deal more seriously with agriculture and food to the extent that they are, and that is to say that we have cheap food in Serbia and not that we pay it much more expensive than in Europe. We are approaching EU entry. As good or bad as it is, it will be estimated by the citizens themselves when the time comes. Definitely the EU and the modern world create cheap food with modern technologies. Food in Serbia is very expensive. Minister, there is a serious task ahead of you, with the Serbian government and with us here, to enable the Serbian peasant to create cheap food, to create food that will satisfy both workers and speed up development. It can only be the laws, the incentive laws, and in accordance with that I will give you my vote, and the MP club will vote for this law, as well as the whole set of laws that are in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10632	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10633	Ladies and gentlemen, today is the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which is an area where there is a great space for action. I must first refer to the situation in which Serbia is located, especially the Serbian economy, and as my distinguished colleague said - a Serbian peasant. In fact, thanks to this unbreakable Serbian peasant, the Serbian state has managed to overcome both wars and sanctions and to help brothers through the Drina form their own country and to withstand 17 of the world's most powerful countries for 78 days. With the help of the Serbian state, when the SPS was in power, Slobodan Milosevic managed to bring all the troubles to those who wanted Serbia to disappear. Serbia did not disappear even though it was in big trouble after 2000. Unfortunately, after 2000, it was worse. By 2000, we had a clear situation as to who our enemy was, and after 2000, it happened that we had a vague situation, a completely clouded situation that led to a catastrophic situation in agriculture. That it is also saying that all those agricultural combinations that once supported most of Serbian agriculture were privatised under the new DS Privatisation Act, which led to the absolute devastation of all agricultural capacities of those combinations and those agricultural structures that have been the basis for the diet and feeding of this Serbia for years and during these worst periods. When we look at what was going on at this time distance today, we can't help but remind ourselves that, let's say, the state of Serbia is through the Ministry of Agriculture, and I especially want to point out to the distinguished colleagues from the DS that when they criticise anything, they look back a little bit first and say whether it was the real policy led by DS that the state of Serbia through the Ministry of Agriculture granted 41 million dinar grants to former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic. Is this a policy that made it possible for individuals, perhaps Mr. Zivkovic was one of those successful experts in the area responsible for giving him such a grants. Is that the criterion for developing Serbian agriculture? No, it's not. Because of all this and without going back too far in the past, the adoption of a law like this that is in line with the national rural development strategy that is necessary and because of the fact that 90% of the population in rural parts of Serbia today is more difficult than in urban areas or in more developed parts of Serbia, it is really necessary to improve the situation in this area through one of these laws. As a member of the Socialist Movement, I absolutely support this kind of effort, in the hope that these efforts will result in the shortest period of time by improving the situation and in the environment from which I come, therefore, in Pirot, and that this law will form the basis for both subsidies and for improving the state and improving the life and work of all agricultural producers and in the area from which I come. This law, as has already been pointed out many times today, should contribute to the establishment of predictability, stability and consistency of the agricultural policy of the Republic of Serbia. If these few criteria could not be secured during the period when we had sanctions, wars, I ask you – why and what prevented the Serbian peasant from having a stable situation in which he would know in the previous 12 years how much would it cost, more precisely how much would he earn from producing cereals, corn, raspberries and anything? It is this goal that this law seeks to achieve is the fundamental value of this law. For this reason, I must point out that the good kinds of incentives are through direct payments, rural development measures and the specific incentives provided for by this law. In fact, I hope that you will agree that the intention of these laws to reach those smallest producers is to have subsidized funds, and that members of the ruling majority, whether the ruling majority is now composed of members of SNS, SPS or anyone or until yesterday, has been conceived by DS, cannot be over-exploited or not, that they will be users of the 41 million dinar grants, as Zoran Zivkovic did. That's probably what Mr. Risticevic is gonna talk about a little bit more. What made me the most defined to really support this law is the possibility that, as a specific type of direct payments, the incentives for production are prescribed and that this type of direct payment represents the amounts paid per unit of the measure for sowing and multi-annual so far. Therefore, those agricultural producers that deal with production and which have concrete results, regardless of party membership, as has been the case so far during the previous government, do not have to be prime ministers to obtain grants. But they'll have to have a concrete score. Unfortunately, the negative episode with the former prime minister ended in 2011 and man was in big trouble and asked his party comrades for help. For the end I come from, a very important measure is, more specifically, a very important set of rural development measures, which is an incentive aimed at strengthening competitiveness and achieving standards within the primary agricultural sector in rural areas. As I said, it is really much harder to live in the interior of Serbia today. Those who are closer to Belgrade, easier and faster, come to the centre of power, we who are a little further, do it a little harder. It is very difficult for those people who are really engaged in agricultural production without good intervention of local self-government and detached bodies or districts in an adequate way to connect and be users of these funds. Therefore, among these measures covering support for programmes related to investments in agriculture to improve competitiveness and achieve quality standards, sustainable rural development, improving rural economy and preparing and implementing local rural development strategies, decisive and perhaps the most important role local self-government should play. Given that in many municipalities today, people who do not care very much about these problems will personally insist on the ministry, as an MP in front of the Socialist Movement under the ruling majority led by the SNS, to pay particular attention to this too, because it is possible to improve the living conditions in those environments in which these conditions really cannot be compared to the conditions of life in central Serbia. I must say, among measures and support for agricultural investments to improve competitiveness and achieve quality standards is one that can be the backbone of these measures. In short, I will try to represent that one of the entities that can be users of this measure and local self-government is one of the measures that can really represent significant progress in this area. Also, the special advantage of this law is that in a good and appropriate way it treats areas in the Republic of Serbia where they are present. the difficult conditions of carrying out agricultural activities and to point out, even at this time, that the pyrot or pyrotical end is one of those areas to which particular attention should be paid. Here's a specific example. There was also a pyrotian milkmaker in Pirote today who is involved in the production of a traditional pyrotic brand – a pyrotic helmet. I don't know which of the present or absent MPs knows about that brand or who hasn't tried that brand. But very few of you know that a pyrotic milkmaker who has the capacity to produce or process 60,000 gallons of milk a day. After the third privatisation, today it is practically dysfunctional. All those current privatisation experts, including a respected colleague from the DS Pirot, who is now engaged in the organisation of a cold government by the DS, have failed to launch production in the pyrotic dairy plant. It's gone. Only the Milky Way School defends the honor of producing a traditional pyrotic hat. It's a particular picture of a state where one of these laws is passed today. I appeal indeed to all of you to rationally consider and support one such law, to improve the situation, above all in these rural areas and to restart production in those areas that traditionally supported Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10634	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10635	I was just hoping that the gentleman with the famous name and name was able to say anything that was too much here without getting his hands on DS, nothing was caused, but, well, the man denied me. What do we have to do with the former prime minister? What does this party have to do with anyone's loan? I understand you who left the SPS and now inherit the party, heir to the JUL. Our prime minister was Zoran Zivkovic. Who was it for you? Mira Markovic? Take care of Mr. Todorovic, Comrade Todorovic. You can't say anything in this assembly and every time you mention DS in the worst light and mention the government in the shade. You put this country in the shade. A party whose heritage you inherit has cast this land into the deepest mud. What subsidies are you talking about? In your time, your authorities, people didn't have the bread to eat. This country was quarantined. (President: Mr Stefanovic, please address the MP. This is what I'm talking about on purpose, because I wanted to bring a little bit of life into this, a really bloodless debate. Because if this is the way a gentleman deliberately and deliberately causes DS, he has to get it. Today we've been listening to a napkin of lies by the SNS, here in the lobby. So do you really think no one's going to answer? You have to answer why the problem is and what's the problem with this bill. To answer what we asked nicely, arguedly. What subsidies? What prime ministers? Well, don't let me open your past. What are you talking about? Whose legacy do you carry on your lapel? It's really below every level. Why are we reacting like this? Because, gentlemen, you've gone too far today. When a person asks you, why are you in debt? You're nervous. (President: Time. When they file a criminal charges against Cvian, you're nervous. Well, we're not gonna talk like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10636	Thank you. Dragan Todorovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10637	Apparently, the esteemed Mr. Stefanovic didn't understand me very well. Dear Mr. Borko, how about that? He didn't understand me very well. My intention wasn't to insult the DS. My intention was to highlight what was going on negatively at the time of the DS government, which had far-reaching consequences, or a really large reflection of ordinary citizens who had hands and feet, nails, scratched in front of the Ministry of Agriculture, looking for the possibility of getting some kind of subsidy, or grants for the development of agricultural production. Not that they didn't want to, not that they didn't have land, not that they didn't want to work, but you just didn't give it to them. If you want us to be offended, I am not a heritage of anyone, I am Dragan Todorovic, just as I was in 1990 and 1999 and 2001 and today, and if you compare the situation in 2000 when, as DS you came to power today, you will not get great results. So, I don't want to insult the DS, nor do I want to compete with you, nor do I want to involve JUL now, Mirjana Markovic, the lady or I won't go down to that level to answer the way you talked about some previous subjects on Serbia's political scene. So my intensity was to highlight the situation, or to describe the state of agriculture today, after 12 years of rule of political principles, created by the DS. Don't find yourself offended now and say they're not political principles dictated by the DS. Don't say the Privatisation Act, something that fell from Mars, something that the aliens came up with, no, that's not what you of the DS came up with. This had a devastating impact on agricultural enterprises, landholds, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10638	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10639	If that's all true, I don't understand why you're still talking about DS. Because somewhere deep down, you know that's not true. First these principles, if we're going to talk about agriculture, you're going to have to ask the URS a little bit, the ones that are sitting with you in the government right now, about these many principles. Not to go from who first created the Privatisation Act, that's your late Mr. Marjanovic. Wait, are you really that same guy from the '90s and '2000s? I don't think you're the same man. Neither are you the same man, nor are you in the same party, and those who know what they would say here now, but they won't, these coalition colleagues of yours. So don't go that far. What are principles? The Democratic Party has introduced subsidies into our system, we have worked so hard to give you the current Minister of Agriculture. You have to take care of what you're talking about, Mr. Todorovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10640	Thank you. We're closing the line. The word has a folk ambassador, Nenad Kitanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10641	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I come from a small community, from the Doljevac municipality, otherwise I've been a farmer for 30 years. I never look behind me, but I look only in front of me and I give full support to Mr. Knezevic and the members of the government in this agricultural law. What I would point out is long-term policy and predictability in agriculture, although I would personally throw out the word politics, I think the strategy is something more concrete. The strategy should be conducted in the next 10 to 15 years. If today a fruit farmer planted his orchard, it takes five years for that orchard to bear. So it's very important that we know what we're doing in the next five or six years. On this occasion, I personally thank Mr. Knezevic for the implementation of the "Fruts and Beris" programme in southern Serbia, which is currently being realised and conveying the greetings of all fruit trees from five districts in southern Serbia. I think the programme is exceptional, that it is of exceptional importance for southern Serbia, for all fruit farmers and the entire population because if we do not have enough awareness of what awaits us in the next 10 years or 15 years, then we are blind. I mean, the other day we talked about Kosovo, Metohija, and tomorrow Pristina will be in Leskovac. So this is a very important issue of fruit and vegetables and very significant resources should be invested in these parts. I have to point out the problems that hit us in southern Serbia. I personally do everything I can and do educations, seminars, not asking for any funding, so I'm glad that there are even more successful people besides me, however, agricultural professional services and municipal agriculture administrations have done nothing about it. This is how I show my dissatisfaction. I hope that in the future we will achieve closer co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture, I have some concrete solutions that are very applicable in the future and thus to improve our own approach to the implementation of the programme, what we are voting today. One more thing, if you have another sheik please bring him to southern Serbia we'll know what to do with that money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10642	The word has Alexander Senic. Your MP group has 30 seconds left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10643	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the previous speakers have spent the time assigned to our parliamentary group, I would just like to say that we have tried to correct our amendments to this bill, so please consider them carefully, and I will forward my discussion to you, Mr. Minister, in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10644	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10645	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SPS Group today made clear its position in the debate, when it comes to the proposal for a law on promotions in agriculture and rural development, giving full support to this bill, giving some additions to what else to cover, and what we were talking about today. Given that this is a significant law that gives, to say the least, the safety and the long-term knowledge of people how and how they will be able to deal with it. So the very high potential of this economic branch, but also very untapped, that potential and great space for its exploitation. With all that in mind, we've given full support. We felt that it was, among other things, a policy, a clear policy, of this government that has been promoted since the exhibition of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic in July that Serbia invests in the area of agriculture, as a major development opportunity for Serbia. We're giving you full support to endure this. We also gave full support and a bill confirming international agreements on plant and genetic resources for food and agriculture. Given that it is the preservation and sustainable use of plant and genetic resources for food and agriculture, and those created in the centuries-old process of selection and cultivation, those who are resistant to all diseases and droughts, those who are characteristic of each environment, and above all in Serbia with the aim of protecting them, record and, of course, enable them to develop further. What I wanted specifically, we supported it and, I stress, it has nothing to do with genetically modified organisms. So, full support and that bill. What I wanted to warn you briefly, since this topic has clearly dominated today, is that I ask the Government of Serbia, my Government, that as much energy and energy as it has invested, and invests much, no problem puts under the carpet, but faces it, that in all those areas that we have already talked about, it also invests as much energy and energy in protecting the environment, specifically, protection from air pollution. This law today was in some way in a subordinate position. It couldn't, because of the importance of this first topic to be talked about much more, but the least problem we'll be talking about is that by the end of the year, this government should adopt a regulation on air pollution, especially from the combustion plant, to bring national emissions annually by the end of 2015 and to bring, most importantly, a national programme on how to reduce air pollution. The most important thing is to get to these measures and to measure the action. I find it inadmissible that there is still no strategy to protect against pollutants and protect against air pollution. So I just wanted to point out that. We will support amendments and additions to the law, but we are asking and insist that it be given much more attention for the simple reason that air is the most important, most necessary natural source of life for people. We need to protect him in order to protect people, to preserve their health. Last time I talked about a strong thermo-energy system of KolubareTNT and five municipalities that it covers – Lazarec, Obrenovac, Lajkovac, Ub and Ljig, a huge system that half of Serbia's production gives them credit for it, but also warned the public and government that it was an area with about 200,000 inhabitants at the same time and an area of degraded environment where water and land and air were polluted. There's no fourth. So here we're talking about air as the biggest pollutant in these plants. I pray that the power and energy to solve these issues will be shown to the end. Just for a little while when it comes to funds, as it is said here – budget funds. Assets from operators, in principle, the polluter pays and, of course, funds from the province and local self-government. What I insist on is two things. One is that those funds belonging to local self-government must come to local self-government. The second is that these funds must be invested in rehabilitating the area and not just that. That's not enough. That's the result of the treatment. I want one commendable example just when it comes to Obrenovac, that the municipality has allocated funds that all children from first to fourth grade have free air-conditioning via one renowned house, the Centre of Children's resorts of the City of Belgrade. But that's the result of the treatment. In addition to using these funds, it must be done much more through the measures that the government, the polluter, will take to make it as little as possible. So we're going to support the law, and we're calling on the government to pay great attention to this problem in this area, because it's a matter of health. We highly appreciate and support the investment in development, the creation of jobs, the employment of people. There's no dilemma. But also, parallelly, it must be happening. Don't hire them, let's have them sick. It must also be invested in health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10646	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10647	The respected chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the SNS declared as one of its strategic definitions the improvement of agriculture, agricultural production, processing of agricultural production, as well as the improvement of the quality of life of people in the country. The difference between the SNS as the backbone of this government and many previous governments is precisely that the SNS between the declared and done places a sign of equality. In this regard is also a confirmation of an interstate agreement with the United Arab Emirates, which provides support for agricultural development as the most significant clause and whose total investment is one billion and 250m euros. In 2013 and 2014, 300m euros should be invested in the irrigation and modernisation system. With this money, 300 thousand hectares would be watered, or would have irrigation systems. I would also briefly refer to the proposal for a law on promotion in agricultural production and rural development, especially the aspect of support for rural development measures, i.e. I would like to thank the Ministry first and foremost, especially the distinction between those developed areas dealing with agricultural production and those undeveloped areas which, due to natural, legal, social or other restrictions, are not able to have adequate agricultural production. I just came from a neighborhood like that. It's a mountain-mounted area, the Priboj municipality. Why am I stressing this? Because incentives are given to rural development measures in percentage terms, because they are 30%, and for these areas, especially undeveloped areas, are 45%. I hope that the Municipality of Priboj, from which I come, as well as surrounding municipalities belonging to the mountain-mounted area, will be among the municipalities with particularly difficult agricultural development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10648	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10649	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, wants, in the first order, to codify all kinds of incentives in agriculture and rural development, which has not been done so far. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture also wants to lay down conditions for the exercise of incentives and use of funds by this proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. The government of the Republic of Serbia wants to establish a transparent mechanism for implementing incentives in the area of agriculture and rural development in the future, which we have not had so far, both in the near and distant past. In general, this law will bring a multiple, immeasurable contribution to Serbian agriculture in the future, which is now in a very difficult state. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Agriculture encouraged the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to recognise that energy and agriculture are strategic branches that can trigger a new investment cycle and the overall economic development of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia was defined in 2013 for a slightly higher agricultural budget. To this end, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Defence Minister, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, led a delegation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a working visit to the United Arab Emirates, and the same visit was returned very quickly, as you saw. They resulted in an agreement on joint investment projects in the areas of agriculture, processing and agricultural infrastructure. I particularly highlight the joint investment project in agriculture with Al Dahra, which will become the majority owner in eight Serbian agricultural combinations. Infrastructure, irrigation and disposal projects will also be carried out, not only in Vojvodina, but throughout the Republic of Serbia. It is ladies and gentlemen and respected citizens of Serbia one of the biggest projects in the last twenty years, but unfortunately our misfortunes too, there are those who have staged a pre-contract with the company Al Dahra. That's where those who guard their chairs from the former government, the former regime, are brought in because they fear the success of the new government. I'm shocked by the fact that they don't have public interests in the first place. In that sense, Mr. Minister, we are giving full and unreserved support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia to continue this work. Serbian citizens enthusiastically accepted it. Finally, Mr. Knezevic, on behalf of a large part of the exiled Serb population from the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, particularly that part, the most economically, economically endangered part of our people, which he found himself in agriculture. I would like to express my gratitude to you that you have delivered this law to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption, because at least one part of them will, by its application, try to solve their basic existential problem, at least one part. This law is very good. We really welcome him, and to this end I call on all MPs, regardless of party membership, to give our vote on the day of voting to this law, because we will show the team that we are quick to get out of the economic crisis, because agriculture is one of the wheels of development and engine of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10650	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10651	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to get something on a bill to confirm the genetic resources contract. It is very strange that this contract since 2001, signed by the federal government in 2002, waited until today for ratification. It's very strange. I read it carefully, and I don't like certain members. Since this law is not subject to amendments, I do not know how I will vote, given that there is a Article 12, 12, 12, 12, 12.3. He's saying we're under the obligation as soon as possible to settle our emergency, unconditionally and without compensation for our genetic resources. So all kinds of seeds and species that we've produced as seed fruit material, including singles. The fact that we're going to have some rights in reverse, nothing's going to help us. I think it's the intention of those who will benefit from this kind of contract, first of all, to get our genetic resources, since they've ruined theirs. In contrast, we can ask them to, but we'll run into GMOs. Without consulting the Novi Sad Institute of War and Vrvating, the Institute of Corn from Zemun, who claim not to have been notified of this law, I will not vote until this consultation is carried out, as they may result in irreparable damages. I don't want to take part in this law to confirm the ratification of this contract, but for our seed houses, it's a shame that will be less than beneficial. The reason is that the 2001 contract, signed by the federal government in 2002, waited until today for ratification. That makes my suspicions a little bit bigger. The rest of the law is not disputed, but Article 12, 12, 12.2, 12.3, sections (a), (b), (c), (d) and (f) could be very harmful to both of the institutions with which I will consult. As for the incentive law, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, as the only farmer in this assembly, with registered agricultural land, who worked 450 hectares last year, of which over 400 were government leases, I can say that this law is a step forward. It's just me here today from the farmers. We're not guilty of doctors or economists or psychiatrists. It's our fault, the peasants themselves, that we didn't join the union, we didn't politically team up. We have left our voices lightly to those who are now salting our minds and do not have any farmers in their ranks. There were cow-lovers in the campaign. Their bull was first, their cow was second, and the peasant on the election list was, I think, 100 first. As the sole farmer, I do not dispute the right for others to comment on this law, but I am sorry that I no longer have my fellow farmers, so this discussion would be a little more fruitful. The villagers can run from politics, but those watching this transmission should know that politics and politicians will never run from them. Neither of them nor their property. When they give their voices lightly and they don't think, everything else goes behind the voices. The union, political and unaccompanied will always be easy prey for those who will manipulate their voices, and thus their properties. As for the 1990s, we all know that it's a technological backlog, that we're still pulling these consequences because of outdated machinery and general technology. As for 2000, and then the minister took part in this, we all expected that what we lost while we were carrying the burden of social peace, to make it up to two thousand years. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. The subsidies, i.e. incentives were introduced only in 2008, on high pressure when certain parties saw them losing their votes, then these subsidies were introduced, but they were irregular, selective. The introduction of the regulations was not long-term, could not create a agricultural policy, and in particular they could not contribute to the European force to spark the common agricultural policy, as it has been led in the EU since 1962, which was agreed by the 1957 Rome Treaties. The European Union's common policy, which they sought but did not seek to implement that agricultural policy and has experienced several reforms, in the 1980s and 1990s, and the 2000-2007 agenda, a policy that is valid until 2013. What we have in the incentive law is fully in line with the common agricultural policy of the European Union. It is almost prescribed, and given that my party's programme is similar, I have no reason not to, because of the text of the law, that because of the premise of incentives, I do not support this law because it is in line with the common agricultural policy of the European Union. What's the problem, and it's been a problem before, far more pronounced, and that's the height of those incentives. Our agriculture competed with an environment that had three and a half times the premium per hectare, and with us the gentlemen led the premium selectively. She depended on the minister's will. These incentives were not regular and were once before the 2012 pre-election campaign, three times changed agricultural policy in a month. When you change the incentives, then you change the agricultural policy, the way they wanted it, then the kilo, then the hectare, then the hectare, and then the back, and the protests, and the persuasion. So this was saying about them that they weren't paying enough attention to agricultural policy. Their intention was, according to me, that after the peasants who were lastrated from the factory and the peasants were lastrated from the field. It's the only lustration they had in 2000 and had the intention to implement. The evidence for this is also easily sold to Hungarians, Croats, I'm not talking about nationality, I'm talking about statehood. The owners of these properties almost 50,000 hectares became even Irish and British in semi-hidden and hidden ways. Today they object to the Arabs. Personally, I am neither for the British nor for the Irish, nor for the Croats, nor for the Hungarians, nor for the Arabs, I am for the Serbs and Serbian peasants. But the technological backlog that has arisen, I'm afraid it will have to be compensated for some other investments, since their agrarian policy has not yielded any results. This law is a few steps ahead of their agricultural policy, because it can be said that it is long-term, unless we change it every year, that farmers can plan for agricultural production, that it speaks entirely enough about production and protection of the environment and rural development and the protection of non-commercial small holdings, so it covers all the elements of agricultural policy, even the reform that will cover, that is, the EU's agricultural policy from 2013 to 2020. Besides this, we have to do land reform, so we don't argue about who sold anything, what did he sell to, who sold it to, who sold it to, but to fight over who bought it. So we have to implement some land reform and give young farmers a chance to increase their agricultural holdings by 20 to 30 hectares and to be some kind of state-owned credit support, the state loans they will buy and that the hectare costs 10,000 euros. Let them pay him off for 30 years at 350 euros a year, and the state and they will be satisfied, and so they will work with their own hands to support themselves and their families. Also, attention should be paid, since I live in Vojvodina, the Duke's leadership. I've said a thousand times that Vojvodina and the government of Vojvodina are not the same thing. So when you're talking and talking about how something like the Dukes are against this law on incentives and some investments, you should know that it's said by the government of Vojvodina, and the government of Vojvodina and the citizens of Vojvodina are not the same, no matter how many of us or any of them think they can identify power with the people. So, I think this law is worth supporting, but the amount of subsidies must be higher so that we can compete with highly subsidized farms around us, and very soon it will pass in 2013, it will come in 2014. Then agricultural products will be free to enter this country. Four years from the ratification of the SAA, foreigners will be able to buy land in Serbia's territory. So we will be in a position that we will not be able to deal with this amount of subsidies with the agriculture of foreign countries another delusion that applies to the public, and I would like the minister to confirm it, subsidies are not a gift to farmers. When you subsidize and deprive agriculture, you subsidize consumers and the processing industry, because it is certain that under familiar conditions, under cheaper conditions, they can obtain raw materials, make competitors a food product and that agriculture and the food industry are our competitors. As far as small yields per hectare are concerned, I say it is not much bigger in the environment either, and as far as exports of only 500 euros per hectare are concerned, neither is this ministry, nor is this government. Simply, imports by dumping conditions of high-subsidized agricultural products have destroyed domestic livestock production. Now it'll take years to recover it. That is why it is my appeal that the Ministry should pay particular attention to small peasant holdings in Serbia and that, regardless of the fact that Dragan Markovic Palma is not there, if we are to present three, four cows per household, that these smaller holdings of three to four hectares are brought to life through livestock, through vegetables because this country exports corn, soybean and various other livestock products worth 700m euros per year. This directly loses more than 700 million meat production, we lose one billion, we lose another 300m euros to the production of milk and milk products. So the export of agricultural products, if we revive livestock and food industry, will be two to three thousand euros per hectare and will come close to EU countries' standards. So it's not the government's fault. It's her ex-wife's fault. One more thing. I like the way it will be supervised by incentives that agricultural inspection will have to do its job. That's enough. This is the paperwork. There are people here who live in Erdewik, so let them say if I'm lying. This is a document on paid subsidies of 1 million and 600,000 euros for vineyards in Erdewik. Now I ask the people who live in Erdewik – is there any other vineyard in that place besides a few acres of that vineyard? What prosecutors, what the police are doing, I don't know, but this file clearly states that the former government has paid off millions and 600,000 incentives for non-existent vineyards. Here, quite responsibly, I think there are some people working here living in Erdewik who can confirm these claims, and this documentation can be controlled. As far as the mentioned prime minister is concerned, this is my photo of July 20th in a vineyard that already existed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10652	Mr. Risticevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10653	I'm talking about abuse of subsidies and surveillance and don't interrupt me. I'm quite clear. This vineyard has been paid for the 55,000-euro incentive. This photo for the front page was made by me, and I sent this to them as evidence, as a source of information that they could sue me if I was telling the truth. I'm talking about incentives, 41 million. At that point, there were 55,000 euros. These incentives were paid on land that had not yet been leased on July 20th, for the vineyard that existed and which Kole gave to the former prime minister once, so that he could rent the land for five years in December and for five years for renting the land he would have obtained subsidies for a vineyard that would plant allegedly for five years. Which state and which regulations, I ask the minister, can give incentives to plant vineyards... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10654	I need to interrupt you for a simple reason, that file you have, hand over to the authorities. You may be 100% right, but now you're accusing Jank, Mark and you've gone off topic. Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10655	I'm in the dark. I'm talking about surveillance. The subsidy law, the minister is there, says surveillance will be increased that these things are no longer happening, that someone does not pay 525,000 euros for planting vineyards that will plant for five years. I think I've made myself clear. The minister who paid the wine grant premium that will last five years should go to prison along with the one who gave them the subsidy. In order not to get any more notice from you, I will finish my discussion with one sentence – the country belongs to those who process it and I hope that it will happen in Serbia one day and that it will not belong to those who have treated us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10656	Thank you, too. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10657	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, one of the pre-election promises of the SNS was that we would do everything we could to revitalise our agriculture, to improve the situation in agriculture, to provide investments, to help the farmer, to help the village. This law and the agrarian budget of 4.5%, and paying off all debts from 2011 and 2012 are obviously the first steps in fulfilling the promise, which are already slowly beginning to come true. It's a good thing the ministry finally started to run a man who grew up and lived with this tormented paoric life, along with that work, with that love, with that care, so he could feel it and know it. They will know that it helps and has certainly both the need and the responsibility to help these people and provide them with the conditions that they can do and do what they want. Finally, I think the time has come and end for those ministers who have been assigned subsidies and incentives and loans on the party line and that it has come to an end for ministers who took pictures on TV loading bags with fertilizers and then turned out to be their trucks. In that post-revolutional tornado, everything died. They took everything and destroyed it, so the farm couldn't escape. With all the regulations and the creation of chaos in agriculture for years, which were done and done in Serbia, and everything seemed that Serbia was not a agricultural country, that it was not who it was and what it always was, the democratic government brought us, and that means nowhere. Despite all the impact on agriculture, it has somehow survived, so GDP participates with 11%, and the agrarian business participates with 20% in GDP. It is even a positive external trade balance, which is very difficult to find in Serbia today. After all, the village did not withstand the 2000 tornado. The village was devastated, devastated, aged. The village is empty. You don't know who's older, whether people, whether tractors. There used to be a show called "The Village of Joy." I don't know if that show still exists, but I know that the village in Serbia is no longer cheerful. No one will even call him a village. Now we call it some rural settlements like some ruralists live here because it's become a disgrace to us. They say there's no rich country without a rich peasant, and they've always taken a peasant. During the communists, they took them first, and then they wouldn't let them work. Since 2000, in this new system that I don't know what it's called because science hasn't proven what this system is called yet, they let it work, but then they take it again. The government has increased the allocations and that is 4.5% with a desire to pass 5% of the budget. Is that enough? It's not. Was it supposed to be more? Yes, it is. Could it have been more? Yes, it is. Why not? It's not because at this point, the state obviously wasn't ready to go rigorously into saving and rationalizing, to free the ballast bureaucracy and administration, and in this way to transfer every penny earned to agriculture. Probably 2014, if she didn't do it in 2013, she wouldn't have another choice. This should be supported. So far, all of some regulations have been regulated and this has created complete chaos in agricultural production. Another thing worth saying and supporting is greater funding for livestock, as its participation in GDP is marginalised. That's what other countries see in the environment. We have livestock on some sidelines, and there's a lot to be done. The fact that they are now providing additional and increased resources is commendable. The third thing I would like to point out as support is a public debate that was correct and high-quality and in which all the relevant factors in this society can say something about this area, and especially because the ministry has heard that it understands, supports and accepts much to obtain one text that is in the interest of agriculture. Fourthly, it's finally the end of a blubbering and unstable agriculture policy where we're going to have a situation where everyone knows what to do, what to do, how to plan and how to cope in these difficult times and find the best solution for themselves. Plans are something that this country needs. The EU has been planning for seven years, and I think we will be doing something between five and ten years. Every plan is better. Bad plan is bad for something there isn't. Criticists say there will be no money for the implementation of this law. The money will be if you want, if you feel the need and if you understand the importance of how important it is to invest in agriculture. These aren't farm subsidies. These are life subsidies. These are subsidies for Serbia. What else was there to do? Perhaps some analysis will be given together with this law to see what economic effects will be, to assess the benefits of such incentives and subsidies in relation to the previous system and how this will be reflected in the sectors of agriculture when it comes to vegetables, livestock, fruit growing, etc. How it will eventually reflect on the territorial district and some municipalities, in order to help the village, perhaps one such analysis could come. I hope something like this comes soon. What I'd like to say is that I remember the time when investments were being made when planes flying from Surcin Airport with veal and beef to the Arab world every day and it was an exceptional export program. Much has been developed in agriculture. So what investors from the Arab world are coming in and bringing in 100m euros just to buy some failed combinations can be one extraordinary springboard for other agricultural producers to start that production and re-open that line to the Arab world so that we can sell a lot there. Agriculture's been in the dark for a long time. It's been plowing for a long time in the dark under the moon. This law has turned on some lights. This is some light-crossing until one morning. I hope that soon morning will be over Serbia and a new time will come.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10658	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10659	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Sandzak Democratic Action Party programme, which we represent sees Serbia as a major agri-industry complex where to the greatest extent possible for the country's economic development, its natural capacities are being used. To achieve this goal, it is necessary to speed up agricultural production in all parts of Serbia and systematically face specific differences between our country's regions. Agricultural production in Sandzak is an important part of our tradition, and all along along with difficult conditions, it has managed to remain a synonym for quality. The problem facing agricultural producers across Serbia did not leave consequences for the quality of their products, which is in one hand good. He left a mark on the quantity produced, which puts before us a task that this law should solve. This is particularly true of our undeveloped and devastated municipalities and villages where agriculture is a dominant branch of activity. The office for sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, headed by Minister Ugljanin, has been in this and in the past term working closely on incentives in agriculture through various activities such as the agricultural support programme, then the agrobusiness programme for women, etc. Unfortunately, neither in this nor in the last term, the budget of this office is enough to implement some major projects to improve the conditions for farmers, but despite these facts it has specifically helped farmers and its programmes directs them to reduce poverty and achieve sustainable development. This law should be supported because it clearly defines the types of incentives in agriculture and defines their minimum guaranteed amounts. This will create an environment of stability and security in which farmers will know exactly what and how much support the state can expect. As a result, farmers will be able to plan their production in the long term, resulting in greater exploitation of agricultural potentials, improvements and an increase in agricultural production. This has never been the case before. Support in agriculture has been established by regulations that have been very often amended. The significant European Commission's observation of progress towards the EU addressed this particular problem, the unstable and often changing measures of support for agriculture. The law should also be supported because certain areas will be defined as areas with difficult working conditions in agriculture, for which the level of incentives will be higher due to natural, social or legal constraints. Here I mean mountainous mountainous areas, devastated areas and so forth. These additional funds directly encourage the settlement of these areas and the effective launch of agricultural production, instead of abandoned villages and unnecessary and inefficient repopulation of large cities. This is particularly important for municipalities in Sandzak, but also for all others in Serbia from a circle of undeveloped and devastated areas. We expect from the implementation of this law that on the ground and in a concrete way it will help the former large agricultural combinations, such as PIC "Pester". We expect that it will also help cooperatives, producers on the Cave, and other parts of our country, to help restore and increase livestock and fish funds. This law is acceptable for us and because it encourages greater compliance with European regulations, especially with regard to the obligation of users of incentives, to respect environmental, agricultural land, safety, human health, animal and plant protection. (President: Time.) ) It is good that local self-government has been allowed to establish legal entities to support the implementation of agricultural policy and rural development policy. We believe that this law regulates the system... (Chairman: Please, your time is up.) I'm done. We believe that this law regulates the system by taking, standard, recommendations from the European Commission and EU standards, and therefore we will support this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10660	The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic. You've got five more minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10661	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, given the little time I have, I will reduce what I thought I was saying. I'd like to say, I think, some things that aren't mentioned here today. This is a law on incentives that are viewed through forms of payment. Here's what I'm going to say, I'm thinking of some other forms of incentive, and I hope this government has it in its minds, and it's probably going to announce it, or install it in what the minister said, a future strategy in agriculture and agricultural development. First of all, I mean cooperatives like that in agriculture. Of course, it couldn't have found a place here at this stage, because it's a big project that probably the government has in mind, and this ministry, first of all, but also the government in general, because cooperatives shouldn't be just in agriculture, and that's going to find places in that future document that's going to work. Another thing I'd like to mention is this. This law envisioned incentives in plant production. I think that, as colleagues here have suggested, with the right to especially extract livestock as such in livestock production and I think that vegetables should be developed in plant production, in future strategy and in future consideration. Why? Because this country has warm waters, as you know, it has plenty of water to water and has quality land. Three things that are enough for all year-round production in vegetable production. I'm just going to give you one example of where these three things are together. It's a match for the Sword. It lies on warm water, as proven, a quality land, surrounded by two large rivers. Of course, that is now what the minister was saying, agriculture policy, long-term, or rather, I would say this strategy. I think that we should think about it and I hope that in this four-year term we will be able to discuss such a strategy as this would include. The next thing I know, I think that in this law, I just didn't think that an amendment should be submitted, but I think that in this law it should be in general, it would be more precise, this term of arable land might be replaced in this text of the law, wherever possible, with processed land, or I would say hectares of processed land, so that we wouldn't come into the situation we had in the past, that people would plead to get subsidies for farmland, and half of it was just processing. Another thing I'd point out, Mr. Minister, I think it's important to pay great attention to the organisation of this agrarian payment administration, and to put human and organisational good, because otherwise, I'm afraid it could become a narrow threat in this entire system. I think it's a very important link in all of this, so people can do what they're allowed to do in good time. In the end, the next thing you know about this law. I've thought about some laws to point out before, but it's quite present here right now, that we're getting laws in the Assembly that should be stylish, the way we propose, in a far better form and content. I'm going to tell you right now that I've been thinking about some 19 amendments from that direction to point this out. Four of those already colleagues who proposed the amendments included. I've given up on these others, because I don't think we should be like MPs put in a position to correct the text of the law here in that sense. I'm not blaming the Minister or members of the government. I think it's because of the professional services in the government and the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10662	The word has Minister Goran Knezevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10663	Thank you. I wouldn't take up much of your time. We've been hanging out all day. Thank you for your patience, thank you for the many suggestions that many have been useful. I would take advantage of the opportunity, although you can hold on to your patience for a few more minutes, for one single reason, because I think it will benefit us when we have a discussion in particular on Monday, so you'll know about some definition and answers to the questions you've asked. Of course, I will not answer the questions of the type – we would like the agrarian budget to be 6, 7, 10, 15%. We'd like the milk premium to be 15 dinars, or for heifers 4,40, 50 or 60,000. We'd like the premium to be quiet, I don't know, 15 dinars or there for June 40s, 50s or 60s. I would like to have a budget, at least the Hungarian Minister of Agriculture, which has 2.5 billion euros from the EU alone. The situation is what it is. So, how much money does it make and we have to fit in. Mr. Arpad has asked a few questions. Could schools be bearers of subsidies? I can't, because they're not market-oriented and because they're funded by the Ministry of Education. The next question you asked about the Regulation on areas with difficult conditions, that it was determined by the minister, so that the minister had this great right. There are very clear criteria. That rule expires on December 31st. We'll make a new rule. It will affect that, therefore, objective conditions and slopes of the terrain, altitude, floods of the city, rinks, the social status of the terrain and everything else, and I think we're going to get objective data that are areas under difficult operating conditions. Payment dynamics, you even suggested your amendment that payments be made by March 31st, the second until, I guess, October 30th. You know that's not just up to the Ministry of Agriculture. It depends at all on the state of the budget, on the Ministry of Finance, and especially on what we have in the law that re-enlisting is March 31st, so we wouldn't be able to make up for something. Otherwise, let me tell you, in 2012, we paid off all the complete commitments of 2011 and 99.6% of the commitments of 2012. So we think we're going to get that thing up, we're going to make it with the Ministry of Finance dynamics, and we think we're going to pay off certain subsidies just at the right time. It seems to me that first order of business will be to pay off the diesel fuel regress that will begin as soon as the rule is finished. I think it'll be around March 1st. Incentives for young producers. It's also one of your amendments. Yes, it will be implemented through the law, through investment support, by restoring investment for young agricultural producers to be greater than for others. The rest will be 30%, they'll be at least 40% here, and we talked about maybe 50%. Olena Papuga voiced concern that there will be no funds in the budget. We've calculated so and so is the bill that there will be funds for the full payment of all these subsidies that have been implemented through the law. She also suggested that we respect farm producers' proposals. We respected most of the proposal by agricultural producers, one of which was a limit of up to 100 hectares, the other one was that we accepted the preservation of plant and genetic resources and it is found in Article 35 of this Act. Joseph Shandor referred to the status of women, children's allowances, pensions. That doesn't belong to this law. We deliberately wanted to separate economic measures from social measures. So what we have today's incentive law is exclusively economic measures aimed at raising agriculture and agricultural production. This is all social and it's likely to be in some other law and some other ministry. Snow White Bogosavljević, SPS, asked for the classification of livestock. Yes, we adopted that amendment and being both livestock and fisheries included in the incentive law. Ruzica Igic, DSS, asked about fruit and warfare – do they have the right to incentives? Yes, they have the right to incentives, first of all, per hectare, and especially the measures are envisaged for investment support. You asked about the cooperative law. The Cooperative Act is not in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. He will be proposed by the Ministry of Business and Finance. I mean, since we're working on some things together, and we've been asked for consultations, they'll be in circulation soon. Mr. Veselinović, unfortunately, was not present when I spoke or did not appreciate certain things, since he misquoted me on certain things, but it's okay. We'll make things right. You said that for 2013, the 5% is low, because it's 4.5% of the budget. Yeah, we'll make it right with the amendment. So that 5% has been valid since 1 January 2014, because the 2013 budget has already been adopted. You were talking about the minister having a lot of rights. However, the minister is only closer to determining the technique, patterns. That's what somebody's got to do. That's what the Ministry's been up to now. It went to the government, though, but those who know what the government's technology is, that's what the ministry's been doing so far, so somebody's got to work. Of course, you don't expect the minister to do it. We've already formed individual segments in agriculture, we've formed working groups. There are, not only workers of the ministry, but also people outside the ministry, agricultural producers, people of science, people of understanding and who will decide on these rules, techniques and patterns. We'll respect that amendment of yours and we've noticed it ourselves. That's what someone else said, it seems to me, that the right to incentives is given to those who work on the farmed land. It's very difficult to control. We have very few men. It's a problem of money and finance again, but we'll appreciate it, and we'll try to organize, at least twice a year, satellite recording, which is the best, but that costs something more. We'll try donations to secure some money, we've already talked about it. It's the best way to look at the whole surface and know what's been processed, what's not processed. That'll give us something else. We'll get the right information about what we have, what cultures we've sown the surface and how many we have. We've had a lot of suspicious data this year, and my personal opinion is that I doubt this list will give the exact results. I think there's going to be a lot of problems. You asked about rural tourism. Yes, rural tourism is in Article 37. – improving economic activities through support for non-agricultural activities. That's where, in collaboration with local self-government, it can be implemented. Bozidar Djelic, unfortunately not there. I'd have a few things for him. I wouldn't meddle in these expert things around the hectare. Do you know what it was like around the hectare, about the offering, how that measure about the hectare came back? It's those famous tractors, those barricades and everything that's happened, but let's not talk about these professional things as far as it goes for livestock, as it goes for warfare. What is more important to me, which is two things, which is what Mr Djelic said, a lack of vision and determination towards the EU. You know, there are several DS debaters who have talked about it, there is a Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, that it may have only been necessary to supplement it, but you know what in the European Commission's 2012 report on Serbia's progress and earlier years there are in two chapters, explicitly said a lack of strategy, development of agriculture and another ad hoc measure in subsidies. Therefore, we were obliged to bring, not in debt, but because of us, we wanted to make those two laws and release them, or one law and strategy. This strategy should give a vision, and the law is the technique to which these subsidies should be given. As for the determination towards the EU and the activation of safeguard mechanisms – yes. If you remember I said that right after the formation of the new government, it might not have been a few days, so I got a "fishing" from some foreign ambassadors, but I stand firm behind Serbia having to build some protective mechanisms because 1. 1. 2014 is very close. Someone's in the past tense. It doesn't matter who or why or why or how they misjudged. Our agriculture won't be ready until that moment to be competitive. Therefore, all together we must fight for some things to protect competitiveness, to protect our agricultural producers. In that sense, Mr Djelic mentioned a letter. Yes, I wrote a letter to the Vice-President in charge of European integration on 1 October 2012. An analysis has been carried out at the Ministry of Agriculture which protection we should work for and I think we must all insist together to protect these products, because they will not withstand the strict competition, or the great competition we will have from next year. Ljuban Panic, he's a little off topic. The transparency of the deal with the United Arab Emirates, I think that transparency was complete, and what has interfered with the whole thing is the way the AP Vojvodina's leadership reacted. So if they could answer a thousand things on the phone, and set up a meeting, they could say this time too – we don't understand something, come on. To react through the media, lobby the media, lobby the farmers' associations, create demonstrations, I don't think it's good if we want to co-operate. On this basis, we have also acted as Government and myself personally as Minister of Agriculture. Ivan Karic, the DS, said this law devises territorial autonomy. I don't think that's true, it doesn't abolish any of the rights that the AP Vojvodina, or local self-government have so far had in the area of agrarian politics. The law only protects the state from being able to conduct a policy in some part of it that would be contrary to the national strategy, and therefore local programmes require the consent of the ministry. So it takes the ministry's consent, and that was in the laws so far, and as the Ministry of Agriculture has the Green Paper, so the government reports, so all the other lower authorities are obliged to send reports. It's one control that's normal everywhere in all normal states. At the end of the day alone, Mr. Petronijevic is not here, he said one thing, told the government not to put problems under the carpet. This government and this ministry will not put problems under the carpet, but will solve these problems. Thank you for your patience, and I think I'll see you Monday.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-22-0.u10664	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby conclude the joint principled search and a single search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 3, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda. We finish today's work and resume tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
