ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13142	We continue with the work of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 94 Members of the People attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. 84 MPs are present among the total number of MPs and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP: Milica Radovic. According to Article 90(1), I, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, inform you that I have also called on the meeting of Milan Miljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism and Milija Djalovic, Head of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, to be present. We continue to search the third item of the agenda in principle – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON SPECIAL TERMS FOR THE PUBLICATION OF THE RIGHT OF ACTIVITIES CONSTRUCTIONED WITHOUT CONSTRUCTION LICENCE. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13143	If anyone's heard from the Rules of Procedure, they've got a head start. I picked up the line after I answered Friday, and the session was interrupted. So I'm giving priority to someone who's reported to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13144	The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13145	I'd say he's a injured member of 107. The chairman of the session on Friday did not respond to the violation of the national assembly's dignity, and I will explain it to you, because when the minister responded to the MPs' discussions, he presented some of the untruths here, specifically as regards the Tchaitin municipality and certain statements and shifts that took place while he was the minister. It is a question of the dignity of this people's congregation, and of the untrue. I personally felt offended as a representative of the Cajetin municipality in this House, and so I am asking the minister to say on this occasion why the facility in Zlatibor, public park or the like has replaced the entire ministry headed by the secretary of state, assistants, etc. Who owns this facility and when it does, the public does, these people here, that we all know what it's all about, because telling the truths in this high house doesn't suit us either as MPs or as representatives of the ministry. What we do specifically in the Municipality of Chatin on the subject of illegal construction is really very important. We have filed over a hundred criminal charges on the subject of illegal construction by which no one has responded, and red tape and three administrations are the most in the ministries, not in local self-governments, because exactly the adoption documents have been in the ministries and it has been waiting several years to stop replacing the thesis. As worded in the media this morning, this isn't a law on legalization, so we of the opposition are ugly and evil, and we're not going to let these poor people legalize objects, it's about enrolling property rights on buildings, or this is kidnapping land from different people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13146	I did not attend Mr. Ilic's presentation, but I will certainly allow it if Mr. Ilic wishes to respond... Does anyone else want a word for the injury of the Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13147	Article 107. In his final statement Friday, Mr Ilic presented a number of incorrect things, insulting Parliament's dignity. So, not a single word in his twenty-minute mockery didn't mention Article 4, and Article 4 is crucial because it gives the right to usurp other people's land, which means what – that all of us so different in the opposition were right when we turned our attention to Article 4. Not one word, Mr. Minister, did you mention how it was possible that you wrote the bill and sent it to the Assembly that allowed other people's land to be usurped. Two, you've mentioned pastures and meadows, and by doing so, you've led the citizens astray. I'm talking about those citizens you're gonna take a hundred euros to record illegal property. Pastures and meadows exist, there is also agricultural land. I doubt there are many buildings built on pastures and meadows, and on agricultural land there are. This law does not apply to such land and to buildings on such land but only to city building land. Do not deceive people who may be on the edges of cities built illegal buildings on agricultural land. This doesn't apply to them. Fortunately, they won't lose 100 euros for something you represent as legalization, and there's no "l" from legalization. If you report before the end of working time again, explain how it is possible that this Article 4, which allows the usurpation of other people's property and the right of ownership on other people's land, will you not change?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13148	Thank you. I believe that no injured article 107, because you stated that Minister Ilic did not speak about Article 4 does not mean that I hurt the Rules of Procedure, or chairing the session. The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13149	I want to draw attention to the Members of the People's Parliament one more time. There's no need to talk about Article 4. Article 4 has been amended. Your LDP amendment has been accepted, both Mr Antic and SNS. The full member has been changed. Read the version that has been completely changed. It's all right. What you've been talking about has been accepted and it's an integral part of the new law. When the debate is in particular, you will see which amendment is accepted. I already have that list. All your remarks that have been justified on the boards have been accepted. There's no need to go back and talk about something that's undeniable. We've considered it all and we've accepted it. The amendments that were given by the SPS, we have yours, SNS, DS, which relate to the same things, we have accepted. It was an attitude to accept it and it was accepted. There's no point in discussing something that's an integral part of the new law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13150	Thank you. Janko Veselinović, replica of Friday.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13151	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am reporting by line two days ago on the spoken words of Minister Ilic, who, his colleague said, was in a funny tone before the start of the game, and at the warning of the president of the Assembly that he still has 20 minutes, spent time without allowing them to end up with a number of speakers. First of all, he has spoken several lies, but he did not refer to the key questions the MPs asked him, which is – whether this law enables legalisation and the answer is – no. This law only allows the entry of illegal objects and creates an obligation for citizens who enroll these objects to pay taxes on illegal objects. I don't think something like that is recorded in Serbia, and I don't know where in the world to get on something that's illegal to pay taxes. Citizens don't get anything. This is a fraud, and as my colleague Bozanic said – you have no argument to convince MPs to vote for this law. Besides, you've made false statements about a bridge in Belgrade, a bridge on Ada. So it's not true that that bridge doesn't have a license and there's no possibility that there's traffic on it, as you said, you could close that bridge tomorrow. That bridge also has a building permit, and it has a temporary usage permit, and technical reception is under way. So he's got a temporary usage permit, how with such objects at all, that there's traffic going on, and you've been telling us about your immovableity that you've been building, I don't know where. We didn't ask you about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13152	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13153	The Honorable President, the Honorable Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will do my best to make this debate, given that the second day of this debate is, I am not repeating and not talking about the same things. I think we're wasting valuable time, and at the same time we're not going to make much progress, because if I understand Minister Ilic correctly, I suggest we move on to the next point, so everything is fine here, there's no dispute. All amendments are accepted, everything works, we can move on. First of all, I'd like to get past what we said on Friday. So, what Minister Ilic was saying. You said that this bill is good and that it helps citizens, especially those who live in their facilities to sign up as owners, that half of Serbia does not have the right permission, that sometimes we are unable to respect the Constitution, that we will adopt all amendments, that we will arrange everything well, happy March 8th. That was all Friday. I will not say anything new if I say that Serbia is not a regulated country and that this is a country where not everyone has equal chances. I'm sure this country is arranged so this bill won't be on the agenda, but what do we do? We from the MP club Together for Serbia stand for order. We really stand for order, not legalization, not the registration of property rights, but order. So, can you, Mr. Minister, guarantee us that you will bring order to this area by this law? We're talking about a very important area of life, which is crucial here. Why the life? Because we know how we Serbs deal with conflicts over property, about borders, about property. I think it would be a good idea if you told us whether this law might not introduce an even bigger mess. I'd like to share some of the experiences I have with the citizens when I speak to them in Capco. They all have a problem when they're supposed to go into the service of a catastrophe of immovableity, write something down, register it, get information. I listened to their problems. So, the problems of ordinary people. One of their questions, which I think is out of your jurisdiction, is when will the competent republican and local authorities start cooperating? Since we can't already be part of this European satellite, could we maybe, until that happens, try to get our services to exchange data and maybe save some time and get a real picture of the situation in Serbia? Maybe if we used the Internet and the phone to start, to start answering the phone, to start exchanging emails and data. Not to be too long, not to waste my time, I think there's a lot of that being said in these few members of the law. The joint parliamentary club for Serbia is ready to support the bill with all the amendments adopted, hoping it is all in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I hope we can talk about it in the amendments when the debate comes in detail. If this law guarantees order, we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13154	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13155	At the very beginning, I wanted to point out the need for a responsible approach, which we, as a society, of the political parties, would have to have about issues that deeply affect citizens' vital interests, their property legal relations. First of all, I think of the need to, when we pass some legal regulation or some legal norm to go after it to work, not that, how much tomorrow, we start announcing that we're going to change those solutions, that we're going to find better solutions for the citizens, that we're going to make something that's free even more free, etc. On this day, the minister says, about 1.3 million illegal buildings, we have almost 700 thousand legalized applications throughout local self-government and a solution of about 15% of all applications filed. Why is that? That's because every law, every solution we set out to challenge is as much as tomorrow. During the past term, Minister Dulic changed the provisions of the Law on Legalisation twice, and every announcement made the legalisation process stop. In July of last year, Minister Ilic set out to announce such a legal project and thus stopped eight months of legalisation. They're objective facts. In March, we're passing a new law, but we have to realize that we haven't done anything in the past eight months. We're about to pass this law, I'm almost sure of it. We should start working on it, not to propose new solutions in five days, and offer citizens some better options because citizens react to it. People trust us sometimes. When they hear we'll do something that's even more favourable for them, stop and do nothing anymore. This will be another shot into the blank, if we continue to invent more favourable solutions per citizen, which ultimately do not appear to be favourable. We need to pass the law and go under that law to work. I don't think it's a good thing, Minister, that in your presentation on Friday, you announced that amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction would be a different solution to the building permit. I don't think it's a good thing we're getting into the story that the land planning fee will not be paid when the facility is built, but rather before obtaining the permits. I don't think it's a good thing we're contesting the concept of zoning in determining the compensation for the construction land. What does it mean that you did Friday? It means that as of Friday, no one will go to pick up, ask for a building permit, report to any directorate across Serbia, because everyone will now be waiting for that legal solution that you announced on Friday. First of all, I don't think that legal solution is good. Why isn't it good? If we don't charge the construction land fees before someone starts building the facility, we'll never charge it again. Who's ever going to make someone build an object to come and pay a serious sum to arrange construction land before getting a used permit? We'll have a sea of buildings that were built, they don't have a license, they haven't settled the compensation for the construction of the building land, and that's how it's going to stand. I don't think it's a good thing we don't understand what zoning means in paying for construction land. First, no one came up with that in the past few years or ten years. That's what some smart people invented 30 years ago when our cities and municipalities started to build. What does zoning mean? That means we can't charge everyone the exact same amount of compensation for the construction land, to transfer it to the field of what you were talking about. We can't charge someone on the Sorceress the same compensation for the construction land, as we charge in Kaludierica. Why can't we? We have complete infrastructure on the Vracar, and we don't have it in Kaludierica. If we don't charge the Sorceress a serious fee for setting up construction land, we'll never build it in Kaludierica. If we put in a system for everyone to pay just as much as it costs to join his facility, we'll never build a new infrastructure and build, let's say, primers. We can't just charge for secondary infrastructure, we have to charge the primary. I didn't want to replicate, you're right, it takes the Republic and the city to sit down for Stepa Stepanovic's settlement and it is necessary to find solutions to all open issues. In doing so, I must point out that this whole project has been misinformed since the very beginning. It was an incredible need for your distinguished predecessor to get into that project, but it didn't go well. This area is not resolved by a detailed regulation plan. The whole project was based on urbanism, and when it is done as an urban project, that land, the buildings on it and the infrastructure on it are not of public interest, but are issues that need to be addressed by the investor. In order not to spread now, the assembly speaker is not an opportunity for us to find solutions and answers to how to solve problems, I accept your proposal as an initiative to sit down and find answers to all open questions. I need a few more elements around the law itself. The colleagues from the DS, from the LDP, of course, in the debate in principle, came out with a number of objections which are primarily related to Article 4. Those were the remarks we all had together on the board. These are the remarks that we all, whether from the government or from the opposition, have found that we should try to find some solutions that will simply be such that they meet certain elements of common sense, to be functional, to be in line with some legal solutions and in the extreme case of the Constitution. Speaking of the Constitution, of course, it will be interesting how the Constitutional Court will assess this law. We have the Law on Planning and Construction and Provisions of the Law on Legalisation, which have been declared unconstitutional. We still don't know why, because the Constitutional Court hasn't published an explanation. We'll see, it seems to me, somewhere in May the reasoning of that verdict, and we'll see what the Constitutional Court appreciated. If he appreciated the need for all citizens to be equal before the law, regardless of whether they were building their buildings with a building permit or without a building permit, and for this law and for any future possible solution how to bring it into line with the Constitution will be very controversial. To get back to the law. If your colleagues from the DS, this was not a criticism, I criticized you with your president, stayed until the end of the board, would have known that this committee had been kept secret for three hours and that, in the end, we had agreed with Mr. Velimir Ilic, Mrs. Aleksanda Damjanovic, and the minister had accepted it, which I am extremely grateful for, and we defined several members that we immediately resolved with the amendments. The minister here has informed us all together that these amendments have been accepted. I know it's a subject primarily for discussion in particular, but since the amendments are accepted, they won't be discussed, they become an integral part of the text, but I just want to point out two. Before that, a little dyspression. Is this the law on legalization or not? That's a philosophical question. The point is that whoever solves and signs his property under this law will no longer have the motive to deal with legalization. So whoever takes advantage of the rights under this law has solved his problem. He will be the owner of the facility, he will own the land and will have a note that he has not obtained a building permit for the facility, but he has solved his problem and solved the property on his facility and it is now his. Of course, when it's his, he'll pay taxes for what's his. If he wants to traffic it and wants to do something else, he will obtain a building permit, or he will have to return to some new law on legalisation, which will be an integral part of the new law on planning and construction. And since that's the case, then we've tried through a discussion on the board to define who should enter the category of people who, in this way, are going to solve their problem at a small door. We watched the text of the law that we received at the beginning of the debate, and we saw that the law could fall to anyone, because in its Article 1, the law said that this legal proposal refers to owners, i.e. all residential business facilities, etc., intended to carry out craftsmanship, help at economic facilities. This could in practice mean that the subject of the registration of ownership under this law could be housing up to 2,000 square meters. It could have been 20 apartments per 100 square square meters. It could've been an object with 15 apartments and 10 bars, but it could've been a storage hall with 3,000 squares and an apartment of 20 squares. We could've gotten into a situation where all the owners of the big halls, who deal with economic activity, reregistered as craft stores. In order for that to not be the case, we have suggested, and the ministry has agreed, to limit the application of this law only to the following categories. These are family and residential facilities up to 300 meters, apartments in residential and residential business buildings up to 200 meters square, business premises in residential and residential business buildings up to 100 meters square, garages up to 30 meters square, weekend houses up to 200 square meters and facilities for the purposes of craft work up to 100 meters square. These provisions of the law and this amendment ensure that this does not apply to tycoons, as you said on Friday, but primarily to solving life problems, to resolving the housing issues of those people who built the facilities. This is a law for citizens of the Kaludier. This is not a law that is for big businessmen who have facilities a few thousand square meters. Secondly, perhaps even more importantly, although this social aspect of this Article 1 is most important to me, this is what is related to Article 4. Article 4 led de facto to the situation, according to the proposed legal solution, that you have an object that you built on someone's land, come and enter property over the property, automatically registers property under the facility, and then you get time to agree with the owner of the land on how you will pay it, or you enter into one situation that you first entered the property, and then you solve that bond relationship. We suggested on the board, I repeat, the minister accepted it and we agreed with the ministry, one completely different structure of Article 4. Now I'm sorry you haven't gotten it yet. I just can't convince this, maybe it's best if I read it. Article 4 The bill is amended and it reads: "If an unlawfully built facility is built on land that is owned or registered on it by the right of use of a third party, the authority responsible for entering the right of its own solution shall enter the right of property on the property, without obtaining the right to land on which the facility is built." A little dyspression – what does that mean? If you've built an object on my land, you don't become co-owner on that plot, because you'd come up with a completely abnormal situation, if you'd built an object on my land, em get that property, of course, by paying market value, you're putting me in a position that on my rest of the land I can't do anything tomorrow without your consent. This provision does not give the owner of an illegal facility any further rights on land, i.e. on the plot itself. Item 2, the property right on the land referred to in Article 1 shall be entered in favour of the owner of the facility when the owner of the facility provides proof to the competent authority that he has acquired the right to property on the property on which he was built. So, no more forced seizure of land, but the owner of an illegally built facility is obliged to sign the property right over the land, to provide evidence that he solved the property-legal relationship. Item 3 until the entry of the property right on the land on which the facility is built, the owner of the facility referred to in Article 1 may not exercise any right of the owner, or co-owner on the land concerned, but may use it solely for the purpose of accessing the facility. So, he stays, the man signs property over the facility, until he solves the property-legal relationship with the owner, has access to the facility. It is introduced in the position of the 4th time limit of two years and in the period of two years, the owner of the facility is obliged to resolve the property-legal relationship with the owner. If it does not resolve it, land will be determined for the regular use of the facility and the owner of the land will be paid a full market price for the land concerned, etc. With this article, we solve a part of the problem, we solve this situation that has been very controversial to all of us, which is very controversial and relative to Article 58. The constitution, where we cannot, as a legislator, prescribe a public interest in solving someone's private property-law issues. At the very end, all of this defines the need to find a new law on planning and construction in the shortest time in front of MPs. We have a new law on planning and construction to redefine the legalisation procedure, in terms of the procedure for subsequent obtaining a building permit for buildings that were built without a building permit. We must do this very cleverly, considering that the Constitutional Court has large reserves according to the ways in which we have defined the area so far. Once again, at the very end, I want to appeal to the minister, that in the process of defining the procedure for setting up construction land, we do not come into a situation where, for some, call, the political points that we will get in public, which may understand, and may not understand what we have done, we do not stop the development of our cities and municipalities, because without compensation for the construction land, there is no planning of building land and there will be no new investment because new investments will not come where there is no infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13156	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13157	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Friday, and today in the O.R., a small number of Members of the ruling majority because I told you not to drink milk, and you're in the milk and you're not in the O.R. I thought I'd convince you, by the power of the argument, to accept the DS amendments because you, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, are passing a highly corrupt law. This is a law that will significantly help corruption and this is proof that your fight against corruption is merely declarative. It's a free quiet and up-to-date voice. When you need to part with the financier, then there goes the Amnesty Act, when you have to part with the financier, then there are laws that will allow everything that is illegal to be legalized at a small door. You know, you, Mr. Ilic, said in the opening statement that there was a nun in Serbia and she wasn't in the catastrophe. I am much more concerned that Kosovo and Metohija are in the catastra, but it does not appear to be in the constitutional and legal order of the Republic of Serbia. What do I have to tell you? Each building-free facility is a monument to corruption and it is a real monument to corruption in Serbia, regardless of whether it was built in 1991, 1996, 2001, 2003, 2005. Whenever an illegal facility is created, it is a monument to corruption in Serbia. You, as Minister, know what our people's imagination can do when it comes to bending the law and that some rules play out, but some things don't make sense to me. What did they send you to explain this law? How come you from Cuck to fool you into coming here today before us? Why didn't that Minister Bacevic come? It would be much easier to communicate with him than with you. Why didn't the Minister of Urbanism come? Then I would have to ask him – Mr. Minister of Urbanism, will the facilities on the future route of the waterway Belgrade – Stalac – Thessaloniki or will you tear down those facilities and make a channel? Or are you going to legalize objects first and then build a channel and tear them down? You know, where there's going to be a port captain's building in Stalac, do you know what nice cottages there are people from Sitivac made? Do you want to legalize it now, so when Bacevic decides to organise a regatta of Belgrade – Thessaloniki to destroy or you will say – we will not tear it down, it remains here, and Bačević will be replaced now that the reconstruction of the government and Bačević goes, goodbye? On the other hand, I have a question – what if the facility is built on two plots? I didn't get an answer as to what was going to happen. You know, here's what practice says. I'm starting with how the law will apply to ordinary people or to me. I've been living in Krusevoc in a family home for centuries. Some of our neighbors built a building without a building permit, partly entered my plot. Is he therefore the owner of my plot? He can't. I'll never let him go. In Japan, when you do something on someone else's land, it's the one on whose land you built it, owned it. It's also in Switzerland. You come to someone's yard and build a house, so it is the house of him whose land is it. Now it turns out that this building and that land in front of it that's been mine for a century will belong to someone else. It's just not normal for me. On the other hand, we're talking about some otoford shooting and some satellite footage is going to help get this job done right. You already have the opportunity to buy on the black market, submit applications before the law is passed, with legalization requirements. Do you know what anything in the photoshop can be done? The Empire State Building in Krushevec can be made in a photoshop. You know, they took it from the satellite, there's the picture, here's the request, let's legalize it for him now, and that's fine. On the other hand, I need to read you some of the provisions of this law. First of all, I've submitted a few amendments. I have submitted to Article 1 an amendment requiring that immediately, without any compensation, all stops in Serbia, that people dealing with bovine production be made available immediately, following this aflatic affair of this pest government, when milking in Serbia was destroyed in one day, that everything stopped immediately and all milk production plants were immediately legalised. It's the least this government can do after this scandal that you've done with milk and the destruction of Serbian agriculture, that immediately all the dairy workers that have been made in Serbia get permission to work, legalize, all the papers and all the farms and all the stops that are involved in the production of milk and all the people who guard cattle, all those stables, stop, sign them up right now and say, we apologize, this Aflastecin government has decided to make a rematch for you now. I've got a few more objections to article one. The concept of an unlawfully constructed object is not clearly defined in attitude 1. So it is subject to free interpretation. You know, when in Serbia something is subject to free interpretation, it contributes to the development of many creative ideas. Especially when it is said that the authority responsible for urban affairs, if it does not act within 15 days, will not say what is happening. Now imagine, the minister comes to visit the cadastre, not Mr. Ilic, but Mr. Bacevic, comes to the catastre to see what it looks like and asks – good afternoon, boys, how you are, do you give those permits in 15 days. Well, we give some, and some we give, and some we don't give. Okay, steal a little bit, don't do much, just know a little bit of nagging these licenses, steal some. Then, in a month and a half or a year on these front pages of tabloids and party music, there's a big affair. The theft was exaggerated and the license was exaggerated. Some people got permits, some didn't, and then they bit the whole sector, and yet there's nothing. On the other hand, I have to join, and I know that's what my DSS colleagues are going to be criticizing. In the 5th grammatical position, it is incorrectly said to be given written notice. The notice is written and ask those people who write you the laws to go to their teachers at primary school and pay them back because they didn't teach them anything. You know, kids in first grade know how to say it in writing, not in writing. I have a few more amendments to the law and I will certainly explain it through the amendments, but in Article 8(2), point 3, the word says "if necessary". You know, where someone gives something if necessary, if you know how expensive it is, that "if necessary" is at least 300 euros. Without 300 euros, it cannot be satisfied. Don't make these inaccurate formulas "if necessary", because those needs are whether for the sneezing gutters, whether for the kids for the excursions, whether for the shoes, whether for the mistress. This "if necessary" in Serbia is not a well-defined definition and is not a good term. In Article 13, you gave a 90-day deadline to do something. We asked it to be replaced by the words "15 days", some have asked for 30 days, it is now a matter of faith in the efficiency of this government whether you can bring anything within 15, 30 or 90 days. You can do anything in 24 hours, and we saw it through the aflatoxin affair. Just switch from 0.5 to 0.005 and from 0.005 to 0.5. So you'll both have external debt and deficit, only two decimals move left to right, you can move 100%, you can do 10%, and you can move 1%. It's not a big deal for you. God forbid it's a nuclear disaster, I think you'd increase the dose of radiation a hundred times. You tell the people to go to the street, and if necessary, you assess whether you're going to the street or not. I have what you said about the Hoods. We didn't really call you here, nor did we want to talk about it. But let me remind you when the media wrote about it and when they asked that unfortunate last name of Zelemir Milivojevic, the head of the municipal office for urbanism, which issued the approvals, he said - I will make a statement when Kosovo is Serbian. Now ask this three who travels to Brussels, when Želimir Milivojevic will make a statement. In this century, in the next century, or never. Of course, I need to say that this is not a law on legalisation, you have wrongly written it, this is a law after which every citizen of Serbia, who has an illegal facility, will have to sign it up and get a congratulations from the tax administration, because a new plane needs money for the EPS, and this is just a law that will impose new taxes and imposing burdens on the shoulders of poor citizens. Please, this is a law that is not a law on legalization. The task of this law is to get you to sign up as owners without a building permit, with all the notes and to pay the property tax. Will you and how to legalize yourself, when this Aflatocin government takes your tax money? They don't care about you and legalization, it's only important to find money, and there's no more money in citizens' bills, neither through the Law on Legalization, nor through new charges, nor through such corrupt laws. I also heard some arguments you gave for this law. I'm seriously considering proposing to the Secretary of the Assembly that these girls here be granted an unfettered internship to run the stenographic notes. You know, that level that mentally burdens people when they hear these kind of arguments. As MPs, we get paid. It's okay, we've been chosen to sit and listen. These girls who take notes, so you know, it's supposed to hold out and come home after this kind of reasoning and think it's all right. In the end, I can only tell you one thing. You will probably vote this law, you will probably raise your hands here, you will press these buttons you need to press, after a month and a half to replace this unfortunate minister of defence, which is digging up this channel of Belgrade-Stalic-Solun, to put on someone else, that story about the channel will eat the dark, just like this law on legalisation, because this Constitutional Court will, because this can't pass the logic of the judges who work in the Constitutional Court. It can't go past this, not on any basis, because anyone who wants to fool the citizens is actually going to give them the Law of Legalization and send a tax card didn't end well. This is how you started in 1996, too. The same beginning, like I'm looking at it. The same way you started, fighting corruption, fighting for the preservation of Kosovo, we're the smartest, best, but then you had big badges on the lapel on the left, and I keep saying, you seem to have gone through your heart. Because not with the coat, not with the jacket, not with the shirt, someone through the heart. Then that badge is hard to take out. The same way you started in 1996, and it looks like you're gonna end up the same way you did that trip. You know, it's a short trip since you took down a board called Zoran Djindjic, until you laid a wreath on Zoran Djindjic's grave. You can't cross that path overnight. You have to mind what you do, for your conscience, for your sake, for those of us who remember. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13158	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13159	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to say that the coalition of the Refugees Association and myself as its president and member of the Serbian Progressive Party parliamentary group strongly supports the government's intention to finally resolve the issue of 1,300,000 illegally built objects. I don't understand when the opposition here often uses the thesis to question property over the land by this law. Here, in our opinion, the matter is very simple. We have the first question of buildings built, we have a property issue over parcels. We all know that during the 1970s, wild settlements were built, for example, by Ribnica near Kraljev, Kaludierica in Belgrade. During the 1990s, a series of refugee settlements, Altina, Borca, Ovca, parts of Zemun Polje, Grmovac, Busije, Blue Horizons, etc. were built in a wave of refugee arrivals. In the first part of the '80s, people usually bought land on the basis of a contract with two witnesses. In the 1990s, they bought parcels based on contracts certified in court. We also have a third model where municipalities as municipalities sold land based on land allocation solutions. Like I said, we need to separate two things. So, the question of enrollment of ownership of the facility and the matter of the plot. We advocate and believe that the only correct approach is to take into account the purchase contracts and land allocation solutions. So, if I or any man, and there are over 95% of them, they bought land from someone based on a sales contract that's been certified in court or based on a land solution, I think that's the basis for enrolling that parcel into the real estate catastrophe and that there's no talking about land uptake. This raises the question of compensation for the construction land. I want to say that a large number of settlements that were created in the 1990s, as I said Busije, Grmovac, Altina, Blue Horizonti, Borca, Ovča, that people themselves in the 1990s provided funds for building land, that they built their own facilities, roads, certain public buildings, and that the government should take into account that these people had invested significant resources and that this was taken into account and that when deciding on the level of the construction land compensation for these people came into contact, because I said the largest number of them bought the land on the basis of the need for a residential facility. So the bottom line is in the next - first step in entering the ownership facility, the second step in taking into account the purchase contract that was certified in court and taking into account the land allocation solutions. These are documents that are essential. So, it can't be said that I usurped the land, if I bought from someone that had five or ten acres of land, I certified it in court, I paid a fair man's fee, or I bought from the Zemun municipality in Busians, the Grmovac, based on a solution to one parcel of six acres. So I bought the land honestly and I didn't usurp it. Whether it's a catastra agricultural land, or a pasture, it's not my business, I just want the contract and land allocation solutions to be entered and entered as the owner of 1/1. I think the foundation must be a sales contract certified in court and a land allocation solution. We have a problem with a wild settlement, say, Ribnica or Kaludierica, where people in the '70s bought land on the basis of a contract with two witnesses. Of course, that contract is not valid, but these people paid someone, the owner of the country, and they got that parcel of five or ten acres, or they bought it. Now we need to see that in court proceedings, they prove that they bought the land, that they weren't usurperers, that they didn't, so they built that house without cash compensation, that they didn't buy it, and I think that's the best way to get contracts and solutions, and that's why people are going to sign up in the real estate catalogue, in the books, as owners of 1/1. This 2003 Planning Act is not, it allows for one relative change, and this is a question of the right to transfer use, but it has not strong enough the question of pitching, or the demarcation of cadastar particles, so you have now, someone has a hectare of land, sold five plots per 10 acres, half a hectare is sold, he now has a problem how to activate these remaining half acres, because now they are co-owners, not only him, but those five who bought it. He now has a problem with how to free that land and activate it and turn it into a building plot. So you should think about strengthening the question of pitching, demarcation and creating a real cadastre. So that all of them can be enlisted on one side and thus encourage construction, because as long as we don't have a real catastre, or registered buildings, we're going to have a problem. In that sense, I also welcome here the announcements of amendments that will work in this direction, and I believe that the basics of purchase agreements, solutions, contracts certified in court must be the basis that these people can sign up as owners, and I especially repeat, for refugee settlements, it has been taken into account the souls of people in the 1990s, so to date they have invested significant funds in the construction of infrastructure and that there is no need now to charge too many amounts for land fees, because a good portion of these things has already been done. The President (Nebojsa Stefanovic): The word has a National MP, Neđo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13160	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable ministers, after the presentation of the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, our friend Susana Spasojevic, and especially after the presentation of our colleague Sasa Antic, can undoubtedly be determined that what you have announced is necessary, too, when we have considered the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Planning and Construction, to pass a comprehensive and unequivocal law on planning and construction. Because, no matter how much the quality of this law has been corrected by amendments, and no doubt that we will fix it in a quality way, we will not be able to solve some of the dilemmas that are being multipled, so before individual legal institutes appear in several laws, or several legislative acts. Let's point out which ones are they? First of all, land for the regular use of the facility exists also in the law, as well as in the Institute in the Law on Fundamentals of Property-Legal Relations, there is also in the Law on Planning and Construction, and even now appears in this law that is on the agenda today. We will in this way create, conditionally speaking, a forest of laws in which both courts and practitioners in administrative practice and any other law will be difficult to achieve. What are we accomplishing with the amendments? We can only avoid what the law means, especially the part of the law that enters the right of property. So let's say that the citizens are clear, the right to property is an uncut right, an absolute right and from that right, all other rights and rights of governance and the right to use and other rights are exercised. In a concrete situation, the owners of illegally raised objects would, without amendments to our gratitude and acceptance, come into a situation of usurping, usurpation of property rights, regardless of whose property it is, whether it is a unit of local self-government, whether it is property of the Republic of Serbia, individuals and legal persons, but we are now fortunate, especially with an amendment pointed out by fellow Sasa Antic to avoid such a trap to do something that would be legal nonsensus, and secondly, something that is unconditional. Secondly, what I think is very important, the motive for the adoption of this law is not disputed and it can be divided in two directions, analysis, one that finally regulates the records of the owners of the buildings that were built without a building permit, which are used without the permission and that is perfectly necessary, given such records never existed before. On the other hand, there is also a legitimate requirement for the state to fill its budget by taxing these same owners, whose rights are now being entered. However, in Mr. Minister's law, I hope there is still time for this, because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee of Resolutes may put an amendment on a particular member who is not the previous amendments, which you have respected and accepted, regulated. What's this about? In Article 1, the law on which we are discussing is given a date, it is handed the right until 2009, to those owners, or builders who have built buildings without a building permit, and then, below the text of that same member, it is said to those who benefit the buildings without the permission, without the date being given. To be honest, this can also be done in court practice and administrative practice, anywhere, cause some problems, even confusion, because the use of the permit does not have those who built the facilities after 2009, and today they use these same facilities. I have to shed some kind of concern regarding the examination of the constitutionality and legality of this act. Why? Because the basic principle of the Constitution is equality, both before the law and before the Constitution. The question arises here whether they are in a level playing field, and it is doubtless not, those covered by this law, which were recognised by 2009 when the Law on Planning and Construction entered into force, compared to those of the owners who built the same facilities after 2009. This equality and equality do not exist and from this aspect, the Constitutional Court may give a certain assessment when analysing this text of the law. Finally, in order to avoid another form of confusion and to avoid the same things in several legal acts, I must suggest that the owners of objects on other people's land are categorized and in the Law on the founding of property and legal relations, and that the same is said there, who builds on other people's land, that he can acquire property on an object that he built on other people's land, under the legal conditions that the owner of the land did not object, that the property is greater than the value of land, etc. We now premise that into this law in a completely different way. Now we're already defining the right of property to this same builder, whether he's safe or he's unconscious and we're writing him in as the owner. So all of this points to one necessary need, one inevitability, that complete this conglomerate of law, several laws in which I have pointed out, in many ways and with several aspects, observes the same legal situation, but, in different ways. It is not good in any case for legal practice, especially for citizens who will find it very difficult to comply with the forest of laws. For this reason, I believe that the legalisation process, the issue of a building permit, the registration of property rights other than fundamental laws, the Law on Public Property and the Law on the Fundamentals of Property and Legal Relations can only regulate a new law on planning and construction. I appeal to you that the task force that has been working on these legal acts and texts should begin, if it is better, in the realization of such a legal act that I believe should be found before us, the MPs, to be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13161	Thank you. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13162	Dear President, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of Parliament and, above all, respected citizens, at the beginning of my presentation, I would just like to inform you that after the theatre of the opposition MPs, which you could have followed up on earlier, the EPP block of advertising ended, and we have returned to a serious assembly debate. Listening to the presentation of individual MPs, and on the proposal for a law on the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, or as the people already call it the "Law on Legalisation", I cannot say that I, and I believe many MPs are not surprised by how someone is trying to present this law to the citizens. I am not surprised by the fact that before we saw the purpose of this law and informed the public about it, we have already engaged in some kind of supervisory work, so we have also drawn from the Bill's proposal, or we warn the citizens, what awaits them all if this law is passed. What is, in my opinion personally, and if I'm wrong, time will show, most interestingly, that by criticizing the law, we've most often heard that it will produce the possibility of adopting other people's property through the land on which the facility was built. I would very much like to know how many private plots on which someone built and built it, they moved in without the owner of a private plot during that time doing anything to stop such a single building. It's the first malignancy that offends common sense. Secondly, they say, in the book of such objects, we will come into a situation where the catastre is otherwise chaotic, I don't know, I heard it in a congregation debate, it won't be able to properly introduce all these objects into catastral frames, so there aren't enough employees, so the way it's done is not the appropriate time for all technologies to be applied, which will say that this should be a software solution, etc. I don't understand much about it, but I know only one thing, in our people they say – what's smart about, that's what the other is proud of, because my question is – what was done and done ten years ago in that disaster? I also know that we have a lot of young people waiting for institutions like, let's say, catastra, they say – we don't have enough employees, and we have a serious job ahead of us. I think if this law carries with it the fact that a cadastre will have to engage in extra labor, it means by itself that it's already carrying someone good. Next, this law finally, after a series of attempts, aims to regulate and put this area into legal frameworks. All the attempts so far have not yielded fruit, or the effect of full legalization has not been achieved. If that's the case, it tells the fact of a million and 300 unlisted objects. I remember, it wasn't long ago, only a year or two long lines ago, when it was necessary to apply to the local community, with the documentation that was then requested, to enter the legalisation process under special conditions that provided for some relief. Everything that's been done people have given up. They got the number under which they handed in, and from then on to the day today, at least in the environment where I live, nothing important happened. The rest is still illegal. In his discussion, someone said that this law, namely that this law and public interest would be violated. I don't know in what sense the public interest will be violated? We've got the facilities built, so we've got them. Whether it would be an interest to destroy or create the possibility that, by putting into the legal frameworks of construction facilities, I can say freely and legally these facilities will be operational, because they are formally, in them someone lives. As legal as it will be, I appreciate that in the coming period citizens will have the opportunity to see for themselves. Guys, if you don't have a registered facility, if you don't have proof that this facility exists, people can't even report a place to live. The story is that this is a new blow, that it's a new tax that unfortunate and poor Serbian citizens have to pay, from my point of view, and after talking to people who just have such objects, they can say it's not true. Citizens are very interested in finding their objects as registered objects in this way, as legal objects, and they are all aware that this is not the end of the whole story. What I expect, which is that the minister, who said in his opening statement that the law came out as it is, but that both the Minister and the Ministry will hear about all amendments that would improve this law, make it better, more efficient both for the citizens and for the country. I don't want to comment on the law the way many people do today. It's not a pre-election campaign, at least not for those who propose and support this bill, although maybe someone wants to turn this whole thing into a pre-election campaign by way of their exposure. This is about the fate of many families. By listening to Mr. Lint, I found many families living in my environment precisely in families that were forced by force to leave their homes, to find themselves in the middle where only in this way could they reach the roof over their heads. Let us also remind ourselves of another people's wisdom, which says that there is not enough to keep every weed. Suppose it happens that even by applying this legal change, but as it seems to me at least from part of the amendment that I have read, they will just be additionally satiated that they will not allow what the MP of the opposition has tried to explain to the citizens what this law is about. Once again, I want the citizens to accept the adoption of this law through its essence, and the essence is that they legalise their illegally built buildings and thus also legally and formally dispose of them. Like many citizens, I have followed this bill since its first date, and I believe that we have taken the first step, or step into the area of planning and building. So I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary one question. If it is to assume that this law regulates the area of illegal construction and thus opens up the possibility that many other things are being arranged later on, this law solves and accumulated problems in this particular area. Mr. Minister, I have information that, at least that's what the builders say, both investors and builders of ordinary families' small housing houses need 364 documents to obtain a building permit, according to the law. Is the adoption of this law that we are definitely entering into a long-term problem in the area of planning and construction, or is it possible to expect to pass laws that have proved to be very complicated and irrational so far, to be rational, both for investors who go out to the market with their construction facilities and for builders of family housing buildings? This is a question that was not referred only to me as a Republic MP. And many other MPs have been in a position to be asked whether this law means quick entry into the adoption of this other law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13163	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13164	Article 107. The previous speaker used several offensive expressions relating to our MP group, or MPs who spoke earlier. I won't repeat them so I won't hurt the Rules of Procedure. I have to say that she has spoken several lies, first of all, for the fact that this law practically does not affect private owners, because she would like to know whose country it was built on without him being against it. A respected colleague should know that a restitution has been made, as it has not yet been, to show that many buildings have been built on other people's property, on a foreign land. When the restitution is completed, those owners to whom the country will be returned will find themselves in a very awkward position, or they will have to sue, as the basic law now stands, the lawless builders who built on those surfaces. On the other hand, they are not protected by this law by the rights of refugees. The real refugees are being reduced by this law because they will not be legalized, but they will have to pay a tax on property that will remain illegal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13165	The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Let me just say that I don't think he's a injured member of 107. The rules of procedure, since the previous speaker has not spoken out on any parliamentary group, is neither the name of any political party. Since several different MPs have spoken, you cannot know with certainty who they were referring to, so I do not consider the Rules of Procedure in any way hurt. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13166	I thank you, Mr. President. I'm happy with your answer. I'm advertising a breach of Article 103. Rules of Procedure. I am sure that we in the National Assembly often use the institution of the Rules of Procedure to talk about something else. That's what the previous speaker did. Using his business release, he tried to make a replica of his colleague Obradovic's speech. At no time did the co-worker mention any parliamentary group, nor a parliamentary group belonging to the previous speaker. If the previous speaker is found in a group of MPs and those parliamentary groups who spoke about that EPP programme, rather than about what SNS is really trying to do and we stick to the essence, which is what interests the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then that is the problem of the previous speaker. Here is a clear difference between the essence, represented by the SNS and represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the EPP programme, so whoever found himself in that EPP programme corresponds to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13167	The word is made by MP Jasmina Obradovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13168	If we're talking about restitution, I have to say this: by the time the restitution comes through construction land, we must first resolve the issue of huge villas in which opposition party officials live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13169	The People's Messenger of Hope Kolundji, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13170	Mr. Chairman, I think you've injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, by allowing the representative of the parliamentary group to be treated essentially in a very offensive way with the MPs of the opposition. So, if the opposition criticises the law, submits amendments and the minister says he will accept the amendments, then it is offensive for you as president of the assembly, and for this entire assembly to allow discussions of these MPs, who have submitted amendments and suggest failures in this law, to be treated as the EPP. I think that the EPP program is what MPs say is the ruling majority incriminating, praising the law and at the same time arguing that amendments should be accepted, which only proves that whatever praises the minister of law, the law is not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13171	I am convinced that none of the MPs who have spoken in such a way have thought about those MPs who speak in a critical way about the law. Of course I support it all the time. The National Assembly should discuss it that way. Of course, I am sure that the MPs who tabled the amendments were seriously considering this law. I'm sure Mr. Babic didn't mean those MPs. He was probably thinking of someone else. Mr. Nikolic is not here. The word has been given to the People's Ambassador Srdjan Shain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13172	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I'd like to point out two things at the very beginning. One thing is that this is an extremely bold and correct move towards Serbia by the minister who is with us today. Because you take responsibility for solving things that haven't been solved for a decade, to get into solving problems that directly affect the lives of a million and a few families. It's really something that some before him didn't accept to work. In this sense, for the Roma Party, for the SNS and the MP club, this is a matter that is extremely important and speaks in one other relationship to the state, which is not only important for us to do propaganda and to make moves that will raise our ratings, but rather for this government's willingness to deal with serious problems and to accept different solutions, and we have all been present here that Minister Ilic has accepted a large number of amendments and thus proved once again the readiness that this law must indeed be in the function of Serbia, in the function of citizens and in the function of Serbia's European path. I am surprised by the comments of some MPs, from which one can conclude that now the property tax is Velimir Ilic's property. I really don't understand that this law introduces property tax. Well, one of the basic values of the EU, one of the basic values of regulated legal states and civilization states is the existence of that tax. Then what's propaganda? Is it propaganda that someone is now telling citizens – you know you will pay taxes, and on the other hand it tells them – we have an exclusive on the EU or is the reality if someone says clearly – we are going to the EU, there is a property tax in the EU, and all those who want to have property have to pay for it. However, these people who talk about it want to turn away from the real objective of this law, and the real goal of this law is to solve all the problems that have so far been related to the issue of defining property-legislative issues on the legalisation of the registration of an object, etc. Why, for us, especially the Roma Party, this issue is important. In this way we create a step further, and we take away the possibility of the self-will of some mayors who have been violently acting in the not so distant past, who simply for the sake of the interest of large capital have torn down houses, just socially endangered categories, saying we have no obligation. We have no obligations, no declarations, no international contracts. Nothing applies to us that Serbia has accepted that we have to provide alternative accommodation for every citizen whose facility currently resides in its collapse. We are all witnesses that Europe does not allow it. Do we need a better reminder than the EU, rather than a sentence said by Mr. Dežer that Belgrade must resolve the "Bellville" issue, that it must resolve the issue of the residents of that village and that the EU has strongly condemned the acts of the city authorities which are socially endangered people who have such buildings that have been destroyed must be moved to containers. Are those the words of those parties who want to have exclusiveity on the European path of Serbia and the EU? It's not enough, gentlemen. Let me just say I'm for Europe. Mr Velimir Ilic has shown in a very concrete way that he was allowed to step forward and take a step towards the EU and the Government of which he is a member and a parliamentary group of SNS and all of us who will support this law, respecting certain changes and additions that I must say are truly acceptable and realistic. However, I would like to ask the minister that we all turn to each other for another moment. It's not enough to solve only Dedinje, Senjak, Old Town or any other exclusive part of Belgrade. The question arises whether 100 square squares of craft space in Dedinj or Old Town is as valuable as 1000 squares of space for livestock production or for craft production in the underdeveloped parts of Serbia, in rural areas, is it in Margita, in Vojvodina, which perhaps a larger number does not know where it is or elsewhere? Are we talking about the same economic interest when we say that a 300 square-square facility is built in Margita where the farmer's son deals with remonting agricultural machines, so he needs at least 300-400 squares? Is it the same when someone who doesn't know what to do with the money builds 100 squares of space that he can rent for a few thousand euros, and so much of the craftsman's son earns in that Margita by his work in his facility? In that sense, I propose to those who have proposed amendments and to you ministers that we all think together and make the next difference. That there is a limit to exclusive parts of the city of Belgrade in one way, and in another way that means cities like Novi Sad, Nis or Cachak, because there are huge differences. All other citizens who are in villages, who are engaged in agriculture and crafts in rural parts of Serbia, that there are no restrictions for them. It's a socially responsible policy. It's a socially responsible state. It is a country that cares about the development of its village and the development of its most endangered. I'm going to end up with this and just fence myself, not thinking about the SPS, obviously that's what it says about us having a party in this House, and that's about this law that talks about social justice, but they have the philosophy of the richest in Serbia and they represent the interest of the richest people in Serbia. On the other hand, we have a socially responsible government that is thinking about the village, which is thinking about poor people, who are thinking about thousands of people in informal settlements in Serbia whose land is owned by a city or state, and there is a clear difference to be made. It doesn't matter if the irresponsible government in Belgrade was one number of years, so something happened, I'm not talking about the last two, three years, but generally, so something happened on state land. Or we're talking about something that directly affects the property-legal relations of natural persons. If we continue to deform these things, then we can really talk about an extremely good law. I hereby conclude my discussion and particularly welcome the boldness of this government and the minister that this question that is very sensitive put on the agenda and in this sense you will have all our support.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13173	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13174	Dear President of the Assembly, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, citizens of Serbia, this bill is in line with reality and as such comes out to meet the needs of citizens. In addition to this fact, data from the Republic Geodetic Institute indicate that the territory of the Republic of Serbia has 1.3 million illegally built buildings. Of course, this bill and how it has a social character, because of those 500 thousand citizens who have not even applied for a legalisation procedure, the largest number of citizens have spent their entire lives building their own housing facility and not finished it. The subject matter of this law is the registration of property rights on buildings built without construction and use of a permit by 11 September 2009. It is about residential facilities used for family housing, weekend houses, residential and business facilities, economic and auxiliary facilities, facilities that serve to perform craft work on their own. Of course, if the owner of an improperly built building is a user on a cadastic plot on which the facility was built, one solution will also include the right of property on the building and the right to building land. Also, this law recognises the need for those who illegally built buildings to be used exclusively for a family home to apply one or two of the five evidences mentioned in this law. Also, persons who are owners of illegally built buildings, which have a building permit, can, on the basis of a legally powerful building permit, enter the right of property. Also, those persons whose illegally built objects are not recorded can, with their request for registration of property rights, submit and a sketch of the facility, which is, of course, certified by a registered performer of geodetic profession works, as well as the records of insight. What we recognize as good in this law is simplifying the administrative procedure, reducing the number of evidence, and thus reducing the time it takes to enroll property rights. Of course, the SNS advocates that the administration must be both human and technical, but it is high time to start changing our awareness in the sense that the administration, in accordance with the law, must quickly and effectively meet citizens' demands, that the administration exists for the sake of citizens, not vice versa. The sooner we figure it out, the better for the citizens of Serbia. Of course, the advantage of this law is to establish a unique property record and to register all immovableities in a public book. It is one of the conditions to get closer to EU standards. Of course, this law is temporary and, of course, this law should be only the first step in the adoption of a system law in the work concerning planning and construction. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I would like to commend your insistence and your willingness to propose a bill like this to finally edit property records in the Republic of Serbia. I also commend your willingness to accept all the suggestions and suggestions that go in terms of improving the quality of this law, above all the suggestions and suggestions that come from the Anti-Corruption Agency. Respected Serbian citizens, the previous regime has left behind invisible people and invisible objects. This government, as a responsible and resolute ministry, first proposed, and this Assembly adopted a legislative regulation that is possible for invisible people to establish their identity and to be entered in the birth certificates. Now there are invisible objects...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13175	Excuse me, colleague, just a moment. I'm asking the MPs for some attention. There's really too much noise in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13176	Today, invisible objects and their enrollment in a unique record of their own. The Serbian Progressive Party advocates legal certainty, which it sees as the basis of every state and all citizens and in the day to vote will support the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13177	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13178	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the beginning to say that I don't think this is the perfect law, nor is it possible in this area to bring a completely satisfying and perfect law in view of the subject of this law. Such magic sticks, unfortunately, cannot have for 1,300,000 objects as illegally built. For me, the largest wild construction in this country is the Albanian state in Kosovo. It is an illegal construction done in the presence of the international community, which wants to tell us that it is easier to legalise than to bring it down. The big question is -- what about this biggest illegal construction, and then what about illegal constructions all over Serbia? One authority that goes away or more authorities are valued for what they left behind. No government in this area has shown itself in particular, and it's been quite a while. A million and 300 thousand objects testify and testify to wars, testify to sanctions, testify to a large number of refugees, testify to poverty and poverty, and testify to something else, testify to the counters, to the complicated procedure, that many did not exactly because of their lack of property, but because of the complicated procedure, they avoided the construction of their building permits, the location permits, the application of works. It was so complicated that they gave up on the counter and today they're the subject of this law, or the subject of the property registration, and I call it the subject of legalization. Nowhere in Serbia, people are smaller than in front of a counter, and they feel no bigger than behind the counter. It used to be enough in Serbia until the 1990s to bring one envelope and finish the job. Lately, it took more envelopes, depending on how many coalition partners were in that local self-government. That's why this law is a Serbian tragedy. Greece's tragedy rests on bribery, and Serbia's tragedy of bribery and corruption. Individual construction is such a guy that we don't have the perfect solution. These are illegal buildings with an street that's barely two feet wide, with bandits walking in the middle of the street. Those facilities have to be legalized. You cannot forbid anyone, and especially the poor, the refugees, the exiles, under the conditions that they were meant to protect their family from disasters, the sun, the wind, the cold. These facilities will be legalized. How it's going to be functional, we can't know that. In agriculture, too, you have many illegal objects. Under the new laws on planning and construction, you need a sock, a shed, a barn, for all you need a building permit, etc. So it was almost impossible to do. It was impossible to wait in front of the counters. It was impossible to wait with envelopes in front of counters, while at the same time dealing with agricultural production and livestock. The issue of these auxiliary facilities, the issue of spells, sheds, etc., is one question that needs to be regulated by some new law, to make it easier to build such objects. In addition to individual construction, which was necessary, we also have luxurious individual construction -- various pastures and pasture facilities in the middle of Belgrade. I suggest some people pawn these facilities and unblock their own party's account. Thus, it will show its commitment to the party and also repay the credit to a particular bank for which they have entrusted their party. Individual construction of a luxury type can be seen from Osrežnica to Belgrade. There are eight kilometers of facilities, 95% illegal off the Sava coast. So this law will cover that legalization. We have several types of legalization of an individual type, so together it's mixed and the one that could be the subject of another law. Since the perfect solutions are gone and these objects will be subject to this legalization. We've been listening to all sorts of things around here. We also heard about the Channel Danube, Morava, Vardar, the Aegean, etc. We've been listening to this from a gondolar from Stalac for 15 minutes. Obviously, there are two Rules of Procedures. One is for me and the other is for them. But it doesn't matter. In addition to individual construction, there was also wild construction of large business and housing facilities, factories, large-square plants. I'll give you examples. The construction was governed by the law of a stronger, deeper pocket and thicker wallet. Object one - residential and business space of 32,000 square meters in the center of Indjija. Year 2007, no work reports, no location permits, no building permit. The facility was built, and the inspection came out I don't know how many times, 20 solutions, crash records, etc. and that no one made an effort to actually do it. A business-house facility of 32,000 squares. Why isn't that facility down? For the simple reason that in such an facility, without the use of permission, local self-government has bought over a thousand squares of business space at prices that are twice the market price. And, look at the wonders, in a 32,000-square-metre business facility, without a building permit, where the municipality bought several thousand squares without the permission, suddenly the president of the municipality and director of the directorship acquired, and it's verifiable, two penthaus of 242 squares, number 32 and number 33, and that's the last floor of this business-building facility. So that's the construction that's legalized through a deep pocket and a fat wallet. An example of battle two. This law does not allow legalisation or registration of objects on public surfaces. What about the water catch? Is there anything on the waterway that can be built? An example of a two-year battle in 2007, a battery recycling plant on a regional water catchment area in Indjia. If private buildings can't be built on public property, here's who opens it – a water-recycling factory for lead batteries, on wells from which citizens drink water. So, the construction that was illegal. I must say, even the former government has annulled it. She said, "It cannot be built here." But the buildings were already built without a building permit, without anything, and I even have a solution from the Dulic ministry to prohibit design and construction. Then what's going on? The local government is changing the spatial plan. He invents a regional waterway, without the previous consent of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was necessary, and then the province government legalises everything, the province government legalises a factory for recycling lead batteries on Indji's waterway. Today we listen to the remarks of those same, or almost the same, that once ruled in the Republic, and in the province, and in that local self-government, and today, they no longer rule. And there's more than one kind of illegal construction, and I don't think this law will stop illegal construction. While poverty, and it is very large in Serbia, in this country people no longer go to supermarkets, most people go to public kitchen supplies to be told, and unfortunately, a large number goes to containers. In such conditions, I don't believe there are perfect solutions. As president of the People's Peasants, I will vote in favour of this law, aware that it will most likely improve by amendments, which, perhaps, by subsequent changes. Also, I don't think we're going to be able to successfully stop wild construction in this kind of poverty, in this country where there's no state, where we have an expensive administration, where we have so many counters, where we have so many poor people. I don't think we'll be able to do anything more serious to stop people from finding a roof over their heads. I hope that the percentage of illegal construction will fall, that we will leave behind a more serious state than we have found. We only found state symbols – coat of arms, flag and anthem. I hope we leave a better country than we found. We found it symbolic. Let's leave to those who have left us only symbols and a symbolic state, a state where there will be no million and 300 thousand illegal objects, in which there will be no million social cases, in which there will be no 350,000 old people of 65 years of age without any income, in which there will be an economy, to leave such a state, and in such a state there will certainly be less wild construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13179	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, unfortunately in this assembly as well as in all previous meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have the wrong approach. When some legal proposal comes into the process, all parliamentary groups, all political parties are trying to show the differences between us. Is that what we're proving to be true to whom I don't know? However, I am convinced that this does not satisfy the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is why we represent in this highest legislative body. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect us to have merger points, to look for these points of merger. Because only these points of merger give security to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The only thing we all agree on is that it is good, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will say – yes, that will be represented by everyone; yes, that is certainly good, and it will not be changed by changes in government or changes in elections. What I think is the point of the merger, which I could see in the debate on Friday and today, is two things. Maybe not enough, but for starters, and if we're in the future trying to look for these points of merger, I think this is going to be a good and quality assembly of the National Assembly. This isn't the law on legalization. It's not called that, nor is it a fundamental law on legalization. The law on legalisation is what Mr. Minister announced would enter the assembly procedure in June of this year. The second point that connects us, and that's good and it's a good message, that millions and 300 thousand illegally built buildings in Serbia will not be destroyed. For, indeed, on Friday and today, I have not heard any MPs, not a single MP group representing such views. We heard about this law that it is disastrous, that it will lead to tectonic disorders in Serbia, that Serbia will not be if this law is passed. What, though, and if I keep trying and propagating that we shouldn't look behind us so we don't get run over by a car on the street, I have to ask you - when are those facilities made? One facility doesn't matter in seven, eight months of this government. One object doesn't matter overnight. You need to dig up the foundation, pour the rate, peel the foundation, because so Mr. Minister, floor plate, walls, peel the board, then the second, then the roof, so where are the craftsmanship? Months last. Which one of us here didn't participate or build? They say that man doesn't exist if he didn't build vineyards and build a house, and I'm sure we're good citizens, all 250 MPs, and that if we didn't build a vineyard, at least we did something in our lives and we know that these millions and 300 thousand objects didn't come across. Next question - who was in power in those local self-governments that belonged to these illegal objects? Who had inspection services? Who had to close their eyes to one or two eyes when those objects were being made? I'm not getting into whether there were corrupt things or not, they're not my powers, they're not the powers of any MP. This should be done by the authorities of the Serbian state. However, there is one saying in Serbia – it was born, it should be rocked. Those objects are made. There's got to be something to do with them. Thank God, they're not going down. That's the attitude of the state. That's the government's position. It's the Parliament's position. We have to do something with them. This law is roofing, generally by idea good, excellent and I'll show you why I think so. There are certain shortcomings in the depths. The Serbian Progressive Party is not satisfied with some of the laws' solutions. It is good, Mr. Minister, that you have accepted the requirements and certain objections of the Permanent Conferences of Cities and municipalities and the Anti-Corruption Agency, that you have accepted some amendments to almost all parliamentary groups, including the SNS. Why do I think this law is generally good? Because by applying this law, everyone will benefit, both the state and the citizens and the economy. The state will finally have a list of all the facilities on its territory. How are we going to apply seriously for anything tomorrow, and we want to be a full member of the EU, for anything if we don't know what our country looks like, our country what does it look like to us? How are we going to plan any planning document, how are we going to plan any corridor, how are we going to do anything if we don't know where the million and 300 thousand objects are? The state will also win over other things that should not be ashamed of. I've heard some very dissonant and critical tones because the state is going to charge taxes on these facilities tomorrow. Of course. Please step outside Serbia's borders and say in any state with orderly democracy, with arranged systems that no property tax should be paid, on something that was built, on something that was built. He'll laugh at you. The state will charge taxes, but on something that the citizens will have, which will benefit. What good will the citizens benefit? They'll be able to use those facilities, they'll be able to trade them. It's a tough situation. Maybe they'll sell those facilities to get kids to go to school. They'll be able to raise their loans to finish those facilities. Most of these objects are incomplete and stand so because there is no imput, no means to complete these objects. In this way, they'll be able to go to the bank, apply for loans, get these loans and finish them off, maybe keep their son on the hearth to marry and form a family, maybe start some small craftsmanship. Third, no less important, the good effect of this law will also have on the economy, the construction industry that had growth until 2007, 2008. Minister, correct me if I'm wrong, it's in total depth for the past three or four years, deep down because of the global economic crisis that has spread to Serbia as well. It may not be enough imputence, but in order for those facilities to be completed someone has to work on them. Construction operations, construction industry, construction material production, something must be done in Serbia to complete these facilities. I'm not saying that's enough impute to the construction industry, but one small boost with all the work that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is already doing, which is done by the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, with this job in Angola, with many of the jobs we're dealing with, with an object that's done in England that's several tens of thousands of squares, approximately the size of VMA. This way we fight for our country, not for the benefit of the government, not for the benefit of individuals, but for the benefit of the entire system. I deeply believe it's one of these laws. In the depths, I'm going to say one more time, we're not satisfied with some solutions. It is not impossible that this law will once again come to some kind of doping here with us, but for the beginning of the roof and generally excellent idea of this law and the SNS will support this legislative proposal in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13181	Thank you. People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic called. On what grounds? (National Ambassador Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: The previous speaker mentioned me. There are no grounds, Mr. Milivoevich. Do you advertise the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13182	Replica. Mr. Rističević mentioned my whole exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13183	There are no grounds, Mr. Milivoevich. Next on the list is MP Radoslav Komlenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13184	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, will immediately begin to say that the JS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. The JS Parliamentary Group supports the bill's proposal because its solutions allow for easier legalisation of illegally built buildings intended for housing, residential business facilities, i.e. special parts of these facilities, weekend houses, holiday houses, facilities designed for carrying out crafts, auxiliary and economic facilities built without a building permit until the date of entry into force of the law on planning and construction. Legalisation shall not be allowed only in the places provided for in public areas and land provided for in the restitution. The right of ownership may also be entered on the premises for which a building permit or an earlier building permit has been issued, which are used without the use of the permit. This article provides that the right to property on illegally built buildings cannot be entered, or the provisions of this law apply to those objects which are not subsequently issued by a building permit under the law on planning and construction. Article 2 provides for types of documents, i.e. evidence that significantly facilitates the entry of property on illegally built buildings. Article 13, the last position, the law on planning and construction, is more likely that the owner of an illegally built facility can apply for registration of property rights and on a facility built without a building permit by 11 September 2009, but not legalise it after the prescribed time limit for submission of applications. The implementation of this law does not require financial resources in the RS budget. Analysis of the effects of the law on which and how the proposed solutions will affect – this law ensures, above all, the recording of state and property rights, transport and legal certainty in business with building land and buildings, as well as the simplification of the procedure for all participants in the area, which is governed by this law. Starting with the results of previous analysis of the ruling laws, as well as sublegal acts in the area of building facilities, the catastra of immovableity and legalisation of objects, it estimates that the adoption of this law should create a basis for achieving the following objectives. Under number one, simplifying administrative procedures carried out in the process of exercising the right to enroll property rights on illegally built buildings, reducing the number of evidence supplied to other special authorities and organisations, which also means reducing the time needed to achieve this right. Under number two, precision of the rights and obligations of all participants in the proceedings preceding the entry of property rights on the facility. This avoids the arbitration of the competent authorities. Under number three, a reduction in the scope and type of documentation, reducing the time needed to enroll property rights on illegally built buildings. The proposed law specifically achieves other objectives, which contributes directly to economic development. Also, conditions are being created for the registration of rights of ownership of illegally built buildings, and thus legal security in the transport of immovable property, security of relevant loans and others. What costs will the application of this law create for citizens and businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises? The application of this law will not create any new costs for citizens, i.e. the economy. We also point out that this law, in accordance with the prescribed jurisdiction, creates the possibility of hiring new operators on the market, thus allowing market competition. According to data available by the Republic Geodetic Institute, around 1,300,000 buildings on the territory of the Republic of Serbia have been registered for which no construction or use of the permit has been issued. According to data obtained from units of local self-government and other authorities responsible for issuing subsequent construction and use permits, around 700,000 legalisation requirements have been submitted in legalisation procedures. The current Law on Planning and Construction prescribed a deadline for the application for legalisation, which was passed by law and which expired on 11 March 2010. I'm going to do a digression and, as I come from Kruševec, when legalization started in 2003, then 2005, so up to today, about 14,500 demands were filed, and 1,470 objects were legalized. Although the local self-government in 2009 made a very quality proposal for legalisation, they were distributed. Legalization was on five zones, where that fifth rural zone of people wanted to legalize for free, so we even gave up to 60 months of war, so people could pay, and those who would pay right away, we gave a discount of 25% to 50%. However, what are the biggest problems where our people and our citizens came across? Under number one - cadastre, number two - legal property relations, number three - project of the implemented plan, number four - a geometry that drew the object in a copy of the plan and number five - a technical report on the state of the facilities made by the authorized bureau. It took people a lot more money to collect this data, then legalize it than it cost them legalization. I hope by this law we avoid a lot of these things. In view of the above, it is concluded that around 600,000 owners did not exercise their legal right and applied for legalisation, which was one of the reasons for the adoption of this law. The matter, which is regulated, is closer to this law, does not apply to the legalisation process, so that there was no possibility of accessing amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, but rather to the adoption of a new special law, which regulated the substance of the entry of property on these facilities under special conditions, as stated in the title of the law itself. It is estimated that, in view of the conditions, deadlines and the competence of the competent authorities, this job will be completed in the entry of property rights for a specific type of facility by the deadline set out in the law. The importance of enrolment of property rights is undeniable, both for the owners of illegally built buildings and for the Republic of Serbia, as the application of this law will enroll in the public books the largest number of immovableities built without construction and use of the permit. In particular, we stress that the application of this law does not provide for the adoption of sublegal acts. Are the positive consequences of lawmaking such that they justify the costs that he will generate? The positive consequences of the law, according to this authority, according to the costs this law will generate are such as to justify its adoption. On the one hand, the owners of illegally built objects will be registered under this law as owners, allowing them to exercise other rights as the owner of registered immovableities, such as obtaining credit, a higher price of immovableity in the case of immovable property traffic, but also the possibility of further investing in their facility, adaptation, reconstruction, recovery and others in accordance with the law. It is particularly noted that illegal facilities cannot be the subject of energy recovery. On the other hand, the Republic of Serbia, if this law is implemented in the manner and within the deadlines foreseen, will have almost fully completed its own records in one short time, and the issue of illegal construction is being tackled preventively. Finally, I would like to reiterate once again that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13185	This concludes the list of speakers. Do authorized representatives report for word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13186	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on Friday, in the closing statement of Mr. Minister, we heard a series of lies, and no answer to any questions asked. As DS representative, on Friday, I asked 15 questions about the law itself and I didn't get a single answer. So much for the EPP. You force in the media that this is a law on legalisation for 100 euros, and I repeat that this is not a law on legalisation, and that registration of objects will not be possible for 100 euros and in only two papers. On Friday, we heard your pangs that you were unable to function as building minister, that you could not comply with the roof law in that vault, which is the Law on Planning and Construction. Then, you said this law was written by a commission that wrote the Law on Planning and Construction, which was partly declared unconstitutional. When I told you Friday to change, I thought you were changing the commission, not the Planning and Construction Act, because it was proven that this commission was writing unconstitutional laws. Also, on Friday, you said the DS gave good amendments and a little bit of a fix on the law. If giving 24 amendments to only 14 members of the law is little, then I ask – what is much and what is significant? My colleague Antic is not present, but I must refer to his discussion because, not by name, he personally called me when he spoke about the session of the Committee on Spatial Planning. I was present until the end of the session, i.e. until the very vote when it was found to have no quorum. That's when I got out. Who then provided the quorum, and in what way was this bill voted or passed, in principle, I really don't know? I was from the beginning to the end. Mr Antic said four amendments were proposed to the board itself, which was accepted by the minister, and I, who was on that committee, did not see the minister attend the session of the committee. I just don't know how he took it when he wasn't there. I'd like to take a look at the minister's presentation on Friday when he was talking about objects that were built without a project documentation, without a building permit and used without the necessary permission. (President: Mr. Senic, time. They told me I had four and a half minutes. (President: You have three minutes. ) In 2008 three... (President: Mr. Senic, three minutes.) () Ask your colleague. Your assistant told me I have four and a half minutes, and now you've taken me half a minute. (President: All right. ) In 2008, three local roads worth 72 million dinars were built in Kragujevac Raca. A formal investor is a ministry whose minister was Mr. Ilic. In addition to being built without a project documentation, without a building permit, and being used now without the permission, these paths are not even paid. The contractor was a PZP Kragujevac, who is now in bankruptcy, and the purpose of building the transfer of the then-president of the SPO municipality to New Serbia. Conclusion - Milo Djuraskovic financed the transfer of the president of the municipality from the SPO to New Serbia. (President: Time, Mr. Senic. I'm just finishing one more sentence. Regardless of the adoption of certain amendments to the Democratic Party, the law remains poor and the Democratic Party will not vote for the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13187	Zoran Bojanic has been reported. On what grounds? (Zoran Bojanić, from Place: By Business, Article 107.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13188	The previous speaker told a lie. I'm a member of the Space Planning Committee, the quorum was all along. You're a colleague, and there's nine of us left. (Alexander Senic, from the place: eight! Nine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13189	People's MP Alexander Senic called. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13190	He's telling a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13191	Replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13192	Of course. The moment I came out, and you can confirm by electronic insight into the presence, because I saw with my eyes, there were eight board members of the 17 at the very meeting. Have some been invested, I don't know, but we can ask for a statement of service followed by quorum. So it was found in the sitting itself that there was no quorum, and I went out at that moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13193	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Bojanic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13194	My colleague, you're right, you're the one who showed up when there was no quorum, but the moment you went out, our board member was present as the ninth. You met at the door. So it was eight and you were nine. You left the session, and half an hour before that, you had a window. There was a ninth member inside, so the quorum was there the whole time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13195	Thank you. Mr. Milan Kovacevic, on what basis are you answering? (Milan Kovacevic, from the post: Article 104 and as a member of the board who entered and came to vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13196	Thank you. These are some low points. That day there was a lot of committees and colleagues and I met personally at the door. When I came in, he was going out, so you can see on the laptops the course of the vote all the time of the session. I don't see that there's any problem with the quorum and the billing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13197	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Radojko Obradovic, as an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13198	Here we are at the end of a two-day debate, we started Friday, and we will continue the discussion in detail in a few days. Unfortunately, this time only 14 members of this law have been read in two completely different ways. All those who watched saw that the opposition parties read in one way, the party authorities in another, and time will show, a year or two pass quickly, so we'll see if the problem of illegally built objects will be solved. What can I say at the very end of this debate and before the debate begins in particular? First, I think that during this debate we all agreed in this room that we are 1,300,000 objects built without a building permit to solve problems. The second, also important thing that we insisted on from the Democratic Party of Serbia, which is that legal certainty must be guaranteed for all citizens, and for those who have built with permission, who have respected all procedures, as well as for all those citizens who have facilities and who, for any reason at this point, do not have a building permit. Third, it is quite clear that the adoption of this law will not solve the problem of illegally built objects, because this will be a record, and we are awaiting the adoption of a new law. Only when the law is passed will we see how the problem will be solved, so I stay with what I said and on Friday -- should the roof law first be passed, because this speed of a few months does not solve anything, the problem remains to wait for June of the month and the adoption of a new law. What's particularly important to say at the very end is that, some colleagues said they didn't see the Constitutional Court's decision, and here it exists. Unfortunately, it is on 19 densely typed sides, so my 20 minutes, plus these two minutes, is very little time to read everything the Constitutional Court says and to explain that this law does not comply with the Constitution. What is important and what will be the basic problem when the new law is passed is that the Constitutional Court insists that all citizens in the process of obtaining a building permit must respect the same conditions, so that we will see how that will be resolved. Unfortunately, this law does not provide frameworks for solutions. We'll talk about it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13199	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Srdjan Spasojevic, as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, who must have been paying attention in these two days of debate to follow what is going on in parliament, surely that at the end of this discussion there should be some emphasis, just for clarity, which is why this law is very good, which is why it will certainly improve legal certainty first. It will lead to legalisation of the facilities, leading to something people have been waiting for for years throughout Serbia. I will remind you that here on several occasions it has been said that there is a certain inequality here when it comes to citizens' rights, that they are practically injured, which can be a constitutional problem. First of all, I don't like the discussion of someone saying that there's got to be something going on in the Constitutional Court or not. The Constitutional Court will assess whether this law is in accordance with the Constitution, and prejudge the fact that it will be safe is at least not correct, especially since, with the amendment to Article 4, we have completely excluded one such possibility. I will remind Serbian citizens of another situation that was in Serbia twenty years ago, when it was the purchase of social housing, that there was also a certain inequality among Serbian citizens, that those who first went to buy apartments paid seven or eight thousand marks or ten and more thousands, and that those who paid seven hundred and eight hundred euros at the end. So, some time period changes things. Sometimes it's better for someone, sometimes it's worse for someone. Here is the problem of the very citizens of Serbia who practically got nothing from the social community. They had to get home. They had to make for themselves and their family a hearth. When they failed, as a certain number of citizens, to be able to get something, this is their chance to practically get social status, to get their property completely legal. This is an opportunity for many generations, I'm sure more of these generations, even some people have died, probably with a great sadness that they haven't managed to leave their heirs with something that's theirs in the right way. This is precisely the correction of a major injustice that has been happening in Serbia for years, and I am sure that this government and the minister who submitted this request have put an extremely courageous and human law on the agenda. We are here together with the minister, who was extremely correct at the beginning of the discussion and said that everything that is not good, not even a dose of vanity has shown, it's one big problem, so he offered us all here to solve it in one right and right way. The discussion that it wasn't unanimous on the board, that's absolutely not true. Counting, I heard at the beginning of the discussion, so I wouldn't cause replicas, it was even if it was seven-five in favor. It was at the beginning of certain discussions and on the part of the ruling coalition, exactly what we have achieved, to coordinate together, so that there will not be an assessment of the constitutionality tomorrow, or that this law will by chance fall in the Constitutional Court. These things are amendment four, gentlemen, corrected. There are no dilemmas. When we talk about the law in particular, it's certain that we will literally state the essence of the problem, where the biggest objections were, it's all fixed. So, at the end of this discussion, I want to thank all the good discussions that were on the board. They were very good discussions. Here, regardless of some dissonant tones that may have deviated from this parliamentary atmosphere, it is ultimately life in parliament, but it is certain that Serbian citizens should be told that based on all the data they have taken from the ministry, that millions and 300,000 objects are waiting for legalisation, that some 700 legalisation requirements have been handed over practically, and it has made it easier that they will not have to go into the procedure again. So everything was done to make it easier for Serbian citizens to seduce the order. Therefore, given the alarming data, it is concluded that the retention of such a legally undefined situation in this area is simply inadmissible for an indefinite period of time. I therefore believe that, for the reasons of fundamental legal certainty in the transport of immovable property, the adoption of such a special law is necessary. There is no other way to overcome the situation on the ground and once and for all put order into this area. Given everything I've said, the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this law because we believe that, as I have said many times, it is a life law and it is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13201	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Senic answered the word. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13202	I want to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure because my interpretation has been misread. I didn't talk about it being 7:5, but on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislation was 7.5.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13203	Thank you. Is there another one of the authorized representatives coming forward? No, I don't. This concludes the list of authorised representatives. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13204	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, we have been talking for two days about a law that has come into the assembly procedure and that will solve many problems right now in Serbia. Not all problems can be solved, but one big part of the problem will be solved. We said there were 700,000 submitted requirements that are regular, yet nothing was done to solve the problem. Why? There's no people money, he can't pay. That's one of the basic reasons for these 700,000 cases. With this law, let's solve 700,000 of these cases, it's a huge shift. I repeat, many have criticized, spoken, talked, had the opportunity to solve these problems as they please. I remember, a similar law was passed by Professor Shumarac when he was minister, when it was said to be settled. Three times the gentlemen of the ruling one party, who spoke the most here today about this problem, passed the law and state of unlisted objects in the building of the immovableity has increased. After every law, there were more illegal objects. Why didn't you solve the problem? We're trying to solve this problem. It is true that many took part. He just said and that's the truth, that the amendments were accepted. But many political parties have repeated almost all the same amendment. We've influenced to accept it as much as possible. It is true that a new law on planning and construction is needed and it is not good that the law is being talked about and it is not good that it is against the constitution, and everyone knows it, it is not good that construction is now blocked in Serbia until the new law is passed. Everyone's waiting for him, Mr. Antic is absolutely right, when he explained that everyone is now waiting for that law and not asking for permission. We need to speed it up. Gentlemen Members of Parliament, I call on all MPs' groups to give their representatives, to work together on this law. It's law number one now in Serbia that needs to be passed. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Don't just criticize it. This government has good intentions, and you have good intentions. Let's meet somewhere and talk about it. Let's make one law that lasts 20, 30 years, like all over the world, and not change it, as whoever comes to power changes the key law. Secondly, I've been attacked by some here that I've brought out the truth that some of the objects have been done illegally. That's not true. It cannot be opened a bridge with confirmation that a test load of the bridge can be done and that it has been in operation for several years now. I can't do it without the permission to do the bridges on the Danube, the bridge on the Sava, the bridge on Tisa, I can't, you have to understand that. I didn't say it by heart. Those are the inspection records. I brought some objects to the truth. These are the inspection records that ordered the demolition. The solutions are executive. I want to ask that we find solutions, so that it doesn't come to that. Some MPs have criticized me, I won't count them now because they have many functions, so I don't blame them. When a MP sitting in parliament is the capital of the city's economy, so it is the capital for the city's investments and for the roads of that city and sits here every day in parliament, the city is growing economically, safely, infrastructureally and in the road infrastructure, there is no problem. It's true that I said there was a Montenegrin mob working facilities. I'd just like someone to give me as much information as Saric has there objects whose name he's named on. I didn't say it by heart, these are criminal charges, gentlemen, which are there, it says. These are the results of the inspection services and the others. Of course, be quiet. Let's not at least tell stories, the minister told a lie. That's not true. It is true that some have criticised the new law that the building permit will be free of charge. It has to, it's everywhere in the world. You want to pay the fees for some facilities, for example. tax is five million euros to build some infrastructure facility that will be done, I would like someone to explain to me -- how will the investor pay five million euros if he didn't get a building permit, go to the bank and get the papers from the bank that he entered the investment and that the bank supports him in the investment? Do you know who can bring it? A drug dealer, a smuggler, some tycoon, in a bag of five million and to pay for it. It's true that the building permit doesn't cost at the start, but during the construction, you have to pay off what we're talking about. It's true that citizens have to understand, it's not this property tax, but when everyone pays it, it's a huge amount of money. He replaces the infrastructure with certain municipalities and cities, and these are huge revenues for every municipality and city. It'll build infrastructure. I repeat, the SPS has given good amendments and we've fixed, the SNS, you've all given, I won't say, and the DS has given it. I repeat, you've all responded to the same thing: LDP, DSS, PUPS. The same attitudes were crucial to some issues, and we accepted it, believing that it was unique from this Parliament. It is true that through this we will do something good, we will make many citizens in Serbia happy, that they will enter their facilities, 80% of all objects of millions and 300,000 property are not controversial, but people have no money, that's what I said at the beginning. So 20% of what's controversial, and for example 10% have some bigger disputes and we can talk about it. It's true that someone's grandfather sold the paycheck, he's got a contract, and now the grandson says a thousand euros, so I'll come to court, if you don't give a thousand euros, I won't show up to sign it. Now that guy's asking, hundreds of people are coming to the Ministry, so what do I do if I give it to him? When a second, third cousin, even a fourth, comes forward, everyone's looking for something. The contract is official, certified in court, resolved property legal relations, but they now come to court, he asks America to come but to pay the ticket, to pay him the costs, to pay him this, so he'll come when he comes on vacation, and the court schedules a hearing, for example in winter, and he says I can come in August, so the court says he doesn't work in August. So that's your problem. That's why we were trying to get it all in order. So please support us and work together, as soon as possible, this other law, which will be key and we will slowly introduce the regular construction flows in Serbia. Let's not say now that anyone here wasn't, everyone was in power. The illegal objects have grown. People, they come, they tell me the one over there, no push, no build, no problem. The other one says, "No way, go now, let them write it down for you." But we want to write down for all those where possible and where property is nothing controversial, that 80%, they'll have all the rights. Understand something, it's not normal for us to make people build a project of an object built 30-40 years ago. It's not normal for us to make him do a static and take a few hundred euros from him, and we don't know, nobody knows what's in that facility. It's not normal for a man to just take the gauges and draw him something lame and he's going to ask for consent to that. It is true that in the new law, which is being prepared, a building permit will be obtained up to 30 days and it is true, yes, on one counter. That's what Europe is looking for, that's what everybody's looking for, and we can't do anything without it with the World Bank or the European investment or the rest of them. You don't need to ask the military for consent if you don't have a barracks in that city, you don't have any soldiers. Imagine you don't have any military facilities and you're going to ask the military for consent and they're laughing at you, but you're waiting 60 days, 70 days for someone to sit down and write something down. You're asking for consent from the water industry, and you don't have a river in that town. They say, "We don't have a river, it's a settlement." Then they say, well, you have to bring the same as if you're next to the Danube. Now, of course, it's excess papers. We need to get rid of it and work it out together. We have to do this because we're the first in Europe with the number of illegal objects. Don't complain. Come on, let's get it in order, draw a line and say, from now on, everything has to be regular. What's the problem with the inspection service? In the whole state, inspectors don't do their jobs, and we all have to change them and bring in others. The president of Serbia and I were in Golia to open a road that was built there to get out of Raska and Novi Pazar in Goli, and that's over. The inspectors are all here. Do you believe that, in six months, more than 300 buildings were built where parking was planned, hotel, ski resort, ski trails, hundreds of them went suddenly to build. Now you have no hotel, no cable, no nothing, and just no one now, and the inspectors have blessed it all. No one went out in the field, everyone said – okay. I don't know what the inspectors are for. What do we need in the county inspection service if it allows for construction? Some of the Messengers of the people are right here when they say: the house is not made in three days. How could someone come to power and build a house for three years? You look calmly, you didn't report him anywhere, no inspector came out, no one warned him about anything, and now you're looking for some property that your grandfather, your father sold to a man correctly and he did it. It's impossible for someone to come to our backyard to build a house on your property and not have you react for 20 years. So it's not something wrong, it's been paid, and now someone new wants to get something, get some money. Therefore, we need to be very careful to solve this problem, end it and have some order in Serbia, and we need to work on inspection services, because we better not have them, rather than have them, and do what they do. Thank you all for the discussions you've had. It is clear that it has been a good will for many to put this in order. I was glad that many people took this law very seriously and talked about it, here in Parliament where it is a place to talk about it. So I ask you to include your representatives a little bit, to help us, to make a good law on planning and construction, and to resolve that issue and then to have one good law and when we come to Parliament, to have fewer problems. If you have experts who understand it well, and I've seen it here, a lot of critics, say, nothing good, call for them to get involved in the work. This law, which was under discussion, approved and gave positive opinions to 26 state institutions that are competent to do so. No one gave a negative opinion. Some of them gave it, then we put it in order and they confirmed it was all right. If all our institutions give a positive opinion, and you're saying it's no good, then it's about what kind of state we live in. I think we're one serious state, that we're one serious parliament, that we have a serious government, we don't have a better government, maybe in some elections we get a better one, but this one's the best, because the people chose it. When some other choices come, maybe some better ones come, maybe this one gets re-elected in the same relationship. The citizens, but let's not say anything is wrong if all our ministries and all our institutions, the Serbian Government's legislation, all those who exist relevant to these laws, gave a positive opinion. If it hadn't been for a positive opinion, it wouldn't have been possible to go to the government. Now we say, nothing's wrong, nothing's wrong in Serbia, we have to make a country from scratch. This is a bad message to the world. You're asking me here about a catastro in Kosovo. Don't stand on that wound for every normal man in Serbia, open wound, and now we salt it, what are you asking me, because you know that no one can solve it and that many have tried to solve it, and they haven't, the catastra issue in Kosovo. I hope that in some future we will do everything we can and make it as favourable for Serbia as possible. At the very end, I want to thank you all. Don't be angry, I'm not mad at you either. We've worked well together, talked, and the opposition always criticises and that's normal. And I was the opposition, I criticized you, very well, and I'm pleased with how you discussed and no offense. I hope the criticisms are well-intentioned, to fix some things and make them even better. Thank you very much, and I hope that in the discussion of the details, we will have all this in order and then we will have some solutions in Serbia. Once again, thank you and I want to make a good law on planning and construction together. Everyone with ideas, come whenever you want, let's make a good law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13205	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'm setting the rules of procedure for a regular break, and we're working on it at 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13206	We're going back to work. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have called on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade, Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Economy, Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration, to be present at Ivica Kodić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Business, Stevan Nikcevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and Interior Trade and Telecommunications, Miroslav Jovanovic, Assistant Minister of Defence, Bojana Todorovic, Assistant Minister of Foreign and Interior Trade and Telecommunications, Brigadier General Ljubomir Nikolic, Head of the International Military Cooperation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Telecommunications, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia of Croatia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on proposals under items 4 to 9 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that according to Article 193 and Article 97 respectively. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which you have received details of in the material. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170a of Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on State Export Credit of the Government of the Republic of Serbia; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Guarantee Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Kuwaitan Fund for Arab Economic Development; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of an Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of Double Taxation in respect of Income Taxation and Proposal for a Law on Confirming an Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates on Mutual Encourage and Investment. Does Master Mladjan Dinkic want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13207	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have here a set of laws on the validation of interstate agreements as well as proposals for ratification of certain credit agreements for the development of railway infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. I would start with an interstate agreement with the United Arab Emirates, given that as many as four agreements ahead of you are on the agenda, which concerns our co-operation with this country. I must say that the United Arab Emirates is one of the richest countries in the world, that there is one special investment fund of 1.3 trillion US dollars that serves to invest in projects around the world and that we have managed to make them, on the one hand, friendly relations, and on the other hand we have launched talks on numerous economic projects. This interstate agreement reflects everything that we have agreed with them since the start of the formation of this government to date towards the area of co-operation. It's even 13 different areas of co-operation. You can see it's from economy to sport. I will introduce you to the most important details of this interstate agreement and suggest what will follow after, I hope unanimous ratifications in this parliament, because we believe this is a useful agreement for all of Serbia. First, as you know, we started talking to them in cooperation in the area of agriculture. After I hope that this Assembly ratifys an interstate agreement, conditions will be obtained for signing a concrete contract with their leading agricultural company Al Dahra, which we already signed, has pledged to invest $400m in Serbian agriculture. First, they would take over, together with the government of the Republic of Serbia, would have joint investments where they would run management in eight agricultural combinations, where privatisation was interrupted in the previous period and which are in debt of around 30m euros at the moment. We'd have a business-technical cooperation with a military facility called Karadjoyev. So, in this case, there would be neither a joint investment nor a country's rent, but it would be a business-technical cooperation contract. Except, let me say, from some details, these eight combinations plus the Karajorjevo military facility have been working about 30,000 acres of land so far. But 16 thousand hectares was a state-run country, for which they did not pay any rent to the state. The 16 thousand hectares did not enter into the pre-contract, nor will they enter into the final treaty with the Emirates, because the government of the Republic of Serbia has decided that this state country should lease the duchy paors, complete, all 16 thousand hectares, all that has been leased so far, will be auctioned to the patrons in Vojvodina. As for the property that is the subject of the future contract, based on an interstate agreement, one part of this land is owned by these combinations, it's about 7,000 hectares. The only country to be leased on this agreement is the country of the part of the PKB, 7. July, from Surcin. Some three thousand hectares will be the subject of leases and about three thousand hectares of land in Karadjordev will be the subject of business-technical cooperation. Approximately, the transaction that will go towards the state budget is worth about 100m euros, as it will be their stake in these companies, and another 200m euros, I speak now in euros, will be invested in training the irrigation system on these parcels, for the purchase of new equipment and for crafts. An additional 100 million will be invested in the construction of five livestock production factories that will be located at these locations. In addition, we have requested additional funding under favourable conditions from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, Abu Dhabi, under the long-term deadline for investments in the irrigation and disposal channels infrastructure throughout Serbia. That $100 million would have been used this year, and they suggested that they could give us $100 million each year for those purposes. The idea is to start mass public works, first to clean up the existing network of irrigation and deforestation channels, which has now been built in Vojvodina, to also design channels in central Serbia, because for now our water companies do not have projects for central Serbia, should do these projects in the bays above all Morava and Danube. Currently, projects exist only for the Sword and the Sword are already included in this current proposal. The idea is that over the next three years, we try to put the larger surface of the country under irrigation systems, so that we don't depend on climate change, so that what happened last year, where the drought destroyed the fruit of numerous grains, corn, first of all, because on the parcels that were irrigated, there were 12 tons per hectare, and where there was no irrigation or no yield, or there were no more than two tonnes per hectare. So six times the yields when it's irrigated. These funds from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund will also be used for the so-called "Food electrification", i.e. bringing a low-voltage network to the parcels, so that a cheaper and cleaner fuel source could be used, means, electricity to run these irrigation systems. But our idea was, and it was with the Emirates, that, apart from these public works, we would allow individual agricultural producers, farmers, farmers, to get long-term funds to buy their own irrigation equipment, but no other equipment in agriculture. So, of this total fund, one part will be intended exclusively for long-term loans to ten years for individual farmers, for the purchase of equipment. The idea is that this year we see how we're going to realise these funds, so if, I hope, it'll be a successful extension of that co-operation for the next period. As for the other projects that we have with the Emirates, you also have before you a bill on confirming the agreement in the area of defence. As you know, the first Deputy Prime Minister has already concluded certain pre-contracts in the area of the defence industry. It's about $220 million worth of contracts. Anyway, what the Emirates want from us is not to buy weapons that we're currently producing, they want to invest in research and development, to produce more sophisticated defense systems, such as Alla Signor rocket systems. So, indicate rockets that have a range of up to 50 kilometers. In this way, both VTI and our science will be employed so that we can produce something more valuable than, for example, the funds that the Emirates invest in. The ammunition we're now conventionally exporting. Of course, ammunition needs to continue to be exported, but I think it's very important to invest in science and development. That's exactly what the Emirates are interested in. When some have asked why the Emirates will have so many weapons, I can only give you one piece of information that Mr. Vukic and I have learned in conversation with Prince Sheikh Muhammad. Basically, they buy, say, $20 billion a year F16 from Americans. When we asked them why they wanted so many planes, they gave it to them all over the Arab world, from the Middle East to North Africa. So they're big donors, so most of this weapon will end up in some other countries. That's the point, but it's important for us to sell it. So, only agricultural co-operation is half a billion dollars. Co-operation in the military industry is now 220 million. What we intend to do is, if this Assembly confirms an interstate agreement, we will sign by the end of this month a binding contract with Al Dahra. I hope there will be soon this line of Abu Dhabi Development Fund. At the end of March, I will lead Serbia's delegation to the Emirates, where we have scheduled negotiations on our national air carrier JAT's strategic partnership and their aircraft company Etihad from Abu Dhabi. Etihad is a company that does not have as long a tradition as JAT, but belongs to rare profitable airlines in the world. Our idea is that they become minority partners in JAT because of our Open Sky Agreement over Europe. They have no right to be majority, but we would offer them management. They'd help us restore the fleet easier, because you know that JAT doesn't have a big purpose without a plane. Our Slots are the only great value. Since they're already the owners of Air Berlin and Air Seattle, then JAT would have infiltrated the entire fleet. I have to be honest with you that one of the big problems of JAT at this point is that we have a huge number of pilots relative to the number of aircraft. That's why a large number of pilots aren't busy enough. It's our idea to consider our pilots, until the moment the JAT is stronger, rerouting them to fly for all these companies, from Air Berlin and Air Seattle and Etyhad, to have more work to do. Anyway, I think it'd be very good if we made that arrangement all the way. Also, they are interested in investing today to make a joint investment to create a Kargo terminal at Belgrade airport. This interstate agreement would make it possible, because they believe what we know, but so far we have not used it, so that we can take much more fresh fruit and vegetables out of Serbia if we transport it to different destinations. In addition, they have an interest in taking over JAT Tech, since what we are most interested in is the knowledge of our people, this time engineers, and in this sense negotiates with the Mubadala Company, which is their big company. He has various segments in his portfolio, and one of them is the operation of the plane. In this way, they would complicate co-operation in the area of air traffic. As far as logistics is concerned, they're interested in developing Luka Panchevo. There's two options. One is to build a brand-new port on land belonging to the City of Panchev, it will surely be discussed, or eventually take over what is the existing port or combine each other. In any case, the City of Panchevo, we talked to them, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is ready to help put this ice that exists there into operation and have a strong river port, given that the increasing burden not only of agricultural products, but also of some others, will take a river route in the next period. It's something we've already talked about and what we've almost arranged for the malts. We're also talking about investing in real estate. We have a large number of military facilities that are completely out of service. This should, according to us, be put into operation by making someone invest in it or making hotels or other adequate facilities. One of the most important talks will be with the Mubadala Company, which has a subgroup called Atik. They own three chip factories, i.e. a semiconductor in Singapore, the United States and Germany. It is our idea to build on the land of the former combination of PIC "Zemun", which long ago is not a farming business, which is close to the Belgrade airport, one of the most modern semi-conductor factories, which in that case would mean the generational shift of Serbia, as this would have a huge indirect effect on the development of Serbia's education system and science, given that we do not currently have enough experts, and what we have, working on large companies in the world and should invite them to return to Serbia. The Emirates are friendly with us. They like our people, our hospitality. It seems to me that they would like to make Serbia some kind of port for their investment in Europe. I think we should take that opportunity. The fact that we'll have co-operation, which is not common, is the opening of their bank. They don't have their own bank in Europe anywhere, although the indirect owners of new banks in the world, from Barklis Bank to City Bank. So they're investing in buying shares, but they're not their own owners anywhere. Their bank, called First Gulf Bank, is in talks with the National Bank of Serbia to get a license. Through Belgrade, they would cover the entire region. It just means that we would then have increased investments in the next period. We believe that we have succeeded in making very good co-operation with them, which is not, I think, no country in the region and that this interstate agreement is a step towards the realisation of concrete contracts. The first concrete contracts will be completed this spring. We're already talking about things that are very close. I hope this assembly will ratify this agreement with the Emirates, including this co-operation agreement in the area of defence and a complete interstate agreement. We also sign two standard contracts with them. One is about avoiding double taxation and encouraging and protecting investment. If there are any questions in the debate, I will answer them. This is where we gave the conditions that we normally give to countries from which big investments are coming into Serbia. In that sense, I hope you'll confirm that, too. The remaining two documents that are here before you are the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the state export credit to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's a credit line that, I'll be completely open, negotiated by the previous government. We just confirmed that contract. It is an 800m-dollar loan for the "Serb Railways", primarily for the construction and modernisation of the railways, but also for the purchase of trains in a determined amount. The idea is that works on the construction of these roads are done by joint Serbian builders and civil society companies from Russia. After the ratification of this loan, I hope the railroad with its partners from the Russian Federation will finish whatever it takes to start building the first section. It is the second track of the Belgrade-Pancevo railway line of 16km, and these other shares are mainly shares on Corridor 10 and 11. As you know, the rest of the dispute, the previous government has agreed to build the Valjevo-Loznica railway. It's a big debate whether it's the first order of priorities or maybe you should replace it with another project. We leave it to people who deal with infrastructure to decide. The Russians are ready to replace this project for someone who would be on Corridor 10 or 11. In any case, it should be built in some future period and the Valjevo-Loznica railway. The only question is priority, first of all, later on. It is logical to have the first infrastructure on international corridors and then to go to important regional traffic, but we from the finance ministry will not interfere with the final decision. That should be decided by people dealing with the traffic strategy. So, as for the maturity of this loan, it will be paid at the conclusion of 2031, so long-term credit is at stake and there are four years of pay-offs for this loan. Finally, you have before you the law confirming the guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kuwaitian Fund for Arab Economic Development. It is a 25m-euro long-term loan also for Serbia's railways, for building a Belgrade railway station centre in Prokop, an area of about 37,000 square meters, and this project also includes engineering services for design, project management and construction supervision. This is where the contractors will be elected in an international tender. The terms of the loan payment are very favourable. Fixed interest is 3% a year. So it's lower than many countries and the repayment period is 18 years, including a four-year period. I must say that the Kuwaiti Development Fund as well as the Abu Dhabi Development Fund are very interested in supporting other infrastructure works in Serbia along with the Qatar Development Fund. So the idea is that in the next period after we start this collaboration with the Emirates, we try to make as much co-operation as possible with other countries of the Persian Gulf, because we think that in a situation where money doesn't have enough in Europe to be absolutely clear, money needs to be looked for where it is, and that's mostly the east. Currently, surplus capital countries are Russia, the Persian Gulf countries, China and Turkey. There aren't many of them. These are about the countries that I've listed and our policy is to be pragmatic and simply cooperate with everyone, with the idea of taking from everyone what we most have and what we need most. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13208	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from the People's Messenger Bojan Kostresh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13209	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Government representatives, today we have on the agenda a discussion on the confirmation of several agreements and this law on confirming an agreement in co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates has led us to think, whether he is just as good as the minister spoke of him and the minister has announced that he expects all MPs to vote for the same agreement. Mr. Minister, I must tell you that LSV MPs will not support this agreement, so you will not get the support of the entire parliament. We always get scared when big bells are announced by such fateful projects that will suddenly help us all live well, how it will bring a lot of money, how all of a sudden it will be quality, how they have found us right now to co-operate with all of Europe and how we will all live well and quality of it. Every time such projects are announced, somehow we from Vojvodina are terrified because we always realize after a while that we've drawn a thicker end. I would remind you that this high house has adopted the Law on Confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the field of oil and gas economy. Then we came to the situation that as one of the most important consequences of this agreement is the fact that "NIS" or as we in Vojvodina like to call this firm – the Vojvodina Oilagas, donated for 400m euros. In this way, Vojvodina lost a large amount of money because at that moment NIS was estimated at 2.2 billion. It is not all the same whether 55% of the funds needed to enter the Vojvodina budget and the budget of local self-government are counted on 2.2 billion dinars or are counted on 400 million. In this way, we have lost some 900m euros, so we fear that these large interstate agreements and these large investments will not go the same way or very much like we managed to do with NIS, which, by the way, only in 2012 achieved a profit that was enough to pay the price paid to the entire NIS. To get back to the deal that's on the agenda today. He has 13 areas that are very interesting, wide-ranging. There are a lot of interesting things. I see that this agreement is very ambitious from co-operation in the field of sport, justice, through military co-operation, security, economic co-operation. There's a very wide grip, and on the one hand, it can be good because it'll help us talk to them and make it possible for us to work together on a higher level. That might also mean that we don't know what we're going to do with them, so we've made a wide range of things, so if we finish some work, it's good, if we don't finish, at least 13 areas, we'll probably get some results. I'm most interested in economic co-operation. You talked about banking, business, industry, but also agriculture. Agriculture is what is most interesting to me and that many people in Vojvodina are troubled. At the very beginning, I would like to remind you that the Vojvodina administration is in no way involved in the talks and negotiations with Al Dahra, nor in achieving this interstate agreement. I don't understand how it's possible that in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, it seems to me that you said that there are some 7,000 acres, something's being leased, something's being sold, without the Duke's administration being asked, not hired, not involved. I don't understand that we have the Government of the Republic of Serbia which is made up of one political party, that we have the Government of Vojvodina made up of other political parties, but this very important project should not go through without the engagement of the Vojvodina administration. It's not good to bypass the administration of a province because I'm afraid we can get into a situation where, by bypassing and not talking to that administration, we begin to regret and negotiate with it. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina was a very clear proposal during the government that we supported at the time of writing the Law on Public Property, which is to create a fund for the agricultural land of the AP Vojvodina in which all state-owned countries would enter, a failed combination, from which only the country that was or will be subject to restitution would be excluded. In this way, we could put the Dukean administration in a position to ask and to talk to it on these issues. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. We didn't have any conversation in the previous government and now we have the fact that the province government is bypassing, which seems like a bad way to go. If I may appeal to you that this is no longer happening, and when these other contracts or acts are signed, the province administration will certainly be included in the whole story. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina is not against foreign investors. We think foreign investors are more than welcome in this situation where our society and our country are today. We think it's important that the more money is brought to Serbia, of course, if that money has a lineage of its origin, it's not from selling bananas, cocaine or anything like that. It's just that we have money that can be useful and make sense. That's why we can't agree to place farmers in Vojvodina as second-class citizens. Why could they not participate in an equal match for the sale or lease of this land in accordance with existing laws? I can ask the opposite question now that Al Dahra is the owner of the new company, it will have its head office in Serbia and will be a domestic company. Will the company be able to participate in land bids in the second round? As far as I know, legal persons based on local self-government territory with at least 10 hectares of ownership in the territory and in the Catastrian municipality can compete and bid. Then what? We're in a situation where our farmers couldn't bid whether this new company could bid. Are we going to get into a situation where then we've put the farmers in Vojvodina in an unsavory, unspeakable position, that they're in a subordinate position? It doesn't say anything. If he can't, why doesn't it say anything? If he can, why are we putting people in a position to be in a subordinate position? The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina also insists that Vojvodina and the local self-government on which these agricultural holdings to be sold must be compensated. According to the Privatisation Act, if they were sold, 50% of the money would belong to the AP Vojvodina and 5% to local self-government. If I've calculated correctly, it's 3,871 acres that will be sold. Somewhere in the media, I saw that the price is about 10,000 euros per hectare, my account says it is 38,710,000 euros, which means that Vojvodina would belong to 19,355,000 euros on this basis. Since it is not, since the Privatisation Act is practically out of force, Vojvodina will be left without this money. The municipality of Bac will be deprived of 395,500 euros and if we count that a new job will take 5,000, I will try to count, in order to show what it means for these people, we would get to the figure that it is 79 jobs in the municipality of Bac. The municipality of Secanj, Neuzina 279,500 euros and 60 jobs, the town of Pančevo, the towns of Omoljica and Starčevo 830,000 euros or 166 jobs, the municipality of Bačka Palanka, the town of Nova Gajdobra 259.000 euros or 52 jobs and the municipality of Apatin, the town of Sonta 153,000 euros or 31 jobs. I did a rough count. That would be about two million and this 19 million. On this basis, Vojvodina remains without 21m euros or about 388 or 380 jobs. An analysis of this pre-contract, which we found on the Ministry of Finance site, has also come up with data. Article 16 of the pre-contract reads that the new company will hold talks with people currently employed in society, and will only take over those who meet the criteria set on the basis of the results obtained. The new company will make a maximum effort and will to take over as many qualified workers as possible, who are more detailed in the final contracts provided for by this pre-contract in the companies referred to in point 1 and the way and conditions for taking over employees in the final sales contracts of assets and companies. It's not enough for us to protect the rights of these workers, because it can be interpreted in one way or another. It seems to me that I've found information that it's about 500 workers and we can, on that basis, preserve all these workers, and we can keep none, because we can interpret, at least I can interpret those rules in one way or another. It's not good enough and it's not acceptable enough for us. Also, I saw in the material that in the formation of this new firm, the United Arab Emirates have 80% ownership, and the Republic of Serbia and the City of Belgrade 20. I don't know why the Vojvodina isn't involved, and I don't know why the Duke keeps jumping and going around. Perhaps in this way the Vojvodina could be compensated if it had already come to the situation that the roof agreement bypassed the possibility of Vojvodina getting the money from privatisation. Perhaps by participating in the ownership of the AP Vojvodina, you could be compensated. It's the same question we ask for both NIS, and for EPS and other public enterprises, which, as we know, were owned by the AP Vojvodina until the crack of 1988, and then magically evaporated, and to this day we can't recover. Based on the announcement of our officials, and you mentioned it, we expect the opening of a bank from the United Arab Emirates and that is a good and useful thing, but I would very much like you as a finance minister to be the headquarters of that bank in Neuzina, Novi Gajdobra, Sonta or somewhere in Vojvodina. It doesn't have to be everything, Mr. Minister, in Belgrade. Maybe that way you could compensate for this story that happened. (Dear Shormaz, from the city: in Zemun. Someone said, "In Zemun." I wish Zemun was in Vojvodina, sir, but he wasn't. Zemun is geographically in Belgrade. But don't work on it, anything can happen. We were also talking about the production of sophisticated missiles. The first Deputy Prime Minister talked about it. The development of the military industry is always a profitable story. You just said that they buy large quantities of weapons and then give it away. I hope we have an idea where they're giving away that weapon so we don't come into trouble with half the world afterwards, so that he doesn't end that weapon in the hands of those against whom we should fight as part of a civilized world community. I sincerely hope you take care of that. In public, information appeared, and you did not say, however, that a four-billion-dollar microchip factory was planned, that the General Staff building, which was torn down during NATO intervention in 1999, would be reconstructed, etc. In all, it is good to know that this government is working to bring new investors. Of course, we don't want to be against any investors in Serbia, because we really need investors. But I failed, and we in LSV didn't get the impression that there was too much concern about the interests of the AP Vojvodina. Also, we didn't come to the fact that at least the government of the Vojvodina or the duke's administration assured us to say, "No, gentlemen of LSV, you're wrong, because these are good contracts and it was good for the Vojvodina Development Bank to break up, so that even those countries would get a little free." Since no one has assured us that this is good for Vojvodina, we doubt your statements. That's why we're not voting for these suggestions. The only thing that is acceptable to us is the proposal for a law on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation against income taxes, because we think it is too much, because it is undeniable that these laws will be adopted and that they will come into force very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13210	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13211	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think he's a injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because the previous speaker has demeaned the MPs of the Vojvodina, because on behalf of all these MPs of the Vojvodina, he says that the Vojvodina will be damaged by this treaty and agreement for what money. So, I would ask the President of the Assembly that, when something like this happens, he warns, because with 10% in Vojvodina, he can't speak for all the citizens of Vojvodina one MP. We have two-thirds of the other citizens who don't think the way the predecessor used to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13212	Mrs Popovic, are you in the Rules of Procedure or as an authorised proposer? It's like an authorized promoter. All right, but before that, Mr. Dinkic will speak. Before I say it, you're right, I assumed it was a Samantha. Certainly one MP cannot speak on behalf of all MPs, except those MPs who have authorized him to represent them, so we certainly agree. Mr. Kostresh certainly didn't think he was speaking for all the MPs. If that's what he thought, I don't think he's entitled to it, of course. The MP may speak on his own behalf and on behalf of the parliamentary group represented, or a group of Members represented. Mr. Dinkich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13213	To try to answer some of these remarks we just heard. First, there is no concern and any comparison with the price for NIS and this contract, for the simple reason that the price in the pre-contract for one hectare of property of these combinations is 10,000 euros per hectare, except for "July 7th", where 12,000 euros per hectare is. So from 10,000 to 12,000 euros. On the market, the average is 5,000 to 6,000. Therefore, a double price was agreed, rather than a market price. The other thing is, it's not true that I haven't had a conversation with the circuit administration about these projects. I talked to Bojan Pajtic in person about this a few weeks ago. He spoke with Goran Jesic, who is the province's secretary for agriculture and water industry. Therefore, clearly, when you negotiate, you cannot have five people in negotiations, but essentially, most of these investments will go and end up in Vojvodina. Naturally, because Vojvodina is the most suitable for agriculture in Serbia and because there are some projects that are ready. It is our idea, however, that we try to spread this across Serbia and prepare projects for central Serbia, because there are few projects at the moment. No one's ever done these projects from our institutes. They mainly worked for what used to be this channel Danube – Tisa – Danube and how to upgrade these channels. Generally, the most fertile country is in Vojvodina, and it is natural that the most beneficial of this agricultural arrangement will actually have Vojvodina in the first step, and later it is our idea to extend it to all regions in Serbia, therefore, and to central Serbia. Just thanks to the consultations, among other things, and with the circuit administration, but also with the farmers' associations, we changed some of our initial idea and decided to offer 16,000 hectares of state land used by these combineds, and they didn't pay anything, instead of offering the Emirates, to the Vojvodina farmers. So, Vojvodina farmers now have a larger area of land that can be leased at auctions. There's one thing I absolutely disagree with you. You say – Bach, Starcheva, Sonta, etc., will lose so much and so much. How can I lose when they don't get anything from those combinations now? We need to compare the situation in those combinations as it is today and what tomorrow will be like. Say, if we leave and ignore the Emirates, what happens to the combineds? They owe 30m euros. So they were working unprofitable. Their owners who bought it were bad privatisations, and that's why they're broken up. Now the state has put it in some agripool with the idea of finding an adequate solution. Our idea is that there, without new investment, without good governance, there's no way to raise it. Why did these owners do so is a question for them and for those who carried out the privatisation process. The fact is, these places don't have any use for these combinations right now, because they don't pay anything. They didn't pay the dinars or the Republic to rent land or local self-government. The worst situation is that nothing changes and everything stays the same as before. What some of them were afraid of, but I don't think they should be looked after, is that when they enter with new agrotechnical measures, when they make irrigation systems, they'll show that the yield can be six times larger than they're doing now. Because there are some farmers who are based, I'm not going to say, there aren't many, but there are, they count on state subsidies – give me subsidies, and I don't care if I invest anything in investment or if I just use it for my own consumption, I don't care. Here is the idea of showing, of course, with the Emirates all these good and positive examples of Vojvodina farmers who have invested in equipment and who are now already advanced, that our agriculture must be more intensive. If we want Vojvodina to be the grain of Europe, which has been said for decades, money must be invested in new equipment, in irrigation systems, because we currently export three times less per hectare than Croatia, eight times less per hectare than the Central European countries, and even 30 less per hectare than the Netherlands. The Netherlands has no better quality of the country than Vojvodina, the problem is that there was no investment in agrotechnical measures in Vojvodina, and without investment, there are no higher contributions. Clearly, subsidies themselves are not enough, for many develop so - called so - called subsidies. the rental relationship to get hectares and therefore get some subsidies, and they're not motivated to invest in new equipment. Of course, there is resistance among those who are aware that they will prove to be not real farmers, but are renters. The real farmers welcome the Emirates, because those who have already shown themselves in their own investments that they are capable will have no problem with them. On the contrary, through these investments, the cost of a whole country in Vojvodina will only rise. When irrigation systems are introduced, it is clear that it will raise the price of the entire land, not just the ones that have been taken over by the Emirates. What is also important, this company Al Dahra has $800m a year traffic and they are large buyers of surplus agricultural products. At 14,000 hectares, the question is what are the options and how much can be produced. They will definitely, except that they will produce on the estate they will run, they will buy extra agricultural products from all farmers in Serbia and we will have another important company that will be able to offer security in the ransom. They're free to produce farmers if they can't sell. They are able to pay and pay in time, because these goods are not only exported to the Emirates or to the lands of the Persian Gulf, they are also food merchants and they sell it all over the world. They wouldn't be interested in Luka Panchevo just to use these 14,000 acres in their possessions, they also want to help duke farmers to have bigger offerings, so they can buy it from them, to sell it worldwide. This applies not only to the duchess but also to farmers in central Serbia, so they are also interested in the Kargo Terminal. Therefore, Abu Dhabi's Development Fund will also grant funds for irrigation to raise yields and loans for farmers, so that individual agricultural producers can buy new equipment, make more profits, but that surplus is clear that we can produce much more than Serbia's needs can be exported to the world. I don't see any fear here. Not that it won't be at the loss of all these municipalities, it will win, because it will have - all the municipalities where the serious investors came have won, because people have been hired. About 500 workers currently working in combinations are offered nothing different than usual in privatisation processes so far. They'll all get an offer to talk. He'll talk to everyone. All those who want to work and who are able to work, objectively, because maybe some of them are old and retired, will get a job in this new joint venture. Those who choose to say that they do not want to work, or are unable, will receive an adequate social programme. No one will lose some kind of support – either they will get a job, or a social programme. What's for sure, this country has to be handled -- even those workers who can't work and get a social programme, some new people will be hired to work there, just like in any other process. That's why this is no different than anything. You asked another question, that Vojvodina would lose some income. I must tell you that Vojvodina has had the proper income from privatizing these companies, in accordance with the law, and also with local self-government on whose territory they are combined, but those privatisations have failed. It's not fair that you're looking for income without taking off on the debts of these combinations, because these combinations have debts. The Emirates won't buy the capital of the combinations, they'll buy the property. So, only property with workers, and debts must be paid out of this price they will pay. The 30m euros to the creditors must be calmed down. Fortunately, the total price will be higher, so they will have something to calm down from. But you can't ask for income rights here and run away from taking over your debts. As far as relations in this joint company are concerned, Belgrade will not be present inside. We made a deal with the City of Belgrade. It'll be 80% Al Dahra Emirates, 20% Republic. And there's one more thing I want to tell you, I'm going to give you a list of public works to be done according to what's been arranged for the construction and cleaning of the irrigation and draining channels. I have to say, we got a full list of projects from the circuit administration. We didn't say what the priorities were, but we asked the Provincial Government to give us a list of priorities and what they sent us as a request to the Abu Dhabi Development Fund. It is the Tisa-Palić subsystem, where 1,800 hectares should be placed under irrigation, "Kikinda, Kula, Mali Ijoš, Nova Crnja, Žitište, Jankov Most, Jergička, Međa, Pešir, Curusian frog ass, Itebej and Recaj. "These are projects and will be invested, in irrigation systems, this year 57 million dollars. In addition, 3,000 hectares -- the northern part of the Pančeva rit -- will be made, 10m euros of investment in Machvi will be 8,000 hectares, placed under irrigation in central Serbia. The value of these works in Machva is about 29 million dollars. We will try to build projects during this year with the Institute of Cerni and other organizations, which are involved in the project and continue work in Vojvodina, but also for central Serbia, which I was talking about. Right now, we couldn't compete, because we don't have a project. The Vojvodina of this, at least in the first step, is certainly the greatest benefit when we talk about agriculture and our idea is that right now with the Emirates, we see how to balance the benefits for the second part of central Serbia, where we would invest more in fruit growing and vegetables. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13214	The word is from the People's Messenger Bojan Kostresh. Right on the line. Two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13215	Thank you. You've said a lot of things, Mr. Minister, and I, in my two minutes, can't talk about all the issues, but since I respect you as one sincere regionalist and a man who deals with decentralisation of Serbia, then you should know as such that regionalisation and decentralisation implies transfer of responsibility, rights and decision-making to other instances. Just because you spoke to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Agriculture doesn't mean that the province's administration is institutionally involved in making decisions, and that the people of the Vojvodina government have sent you lists, which you generously accepted, still doesn't mean that the Vojvodina administration has been accepted as a talker. That's what you and I as honest regionalists, one and the other know well, then I won't waste any more time on it. One of your close associates said that under these conditions, or former associates, but that's not so important, he said that under these conditions under which the ad act comes and could come both "Nestle" and "Peppy" and some other large companies, that they would do the same thing that Al Dahra does and get everything that is given to them. I don't know if your associate or former associate was right, but simply, that's the information I got. The Agricultural Land Fund, that's what I was talking about, has overcome the problem, because it's not true that Vojvodina is running away from obligations and it's not true that the Vojvodina administration isn't ready to deal with problems, but the problem is that no one asks them. Then we get into a situation where we determine whether we're better off getting out of privatization or we don't need those funds, or we better take responsibility or we don't need that responsibility. Mr. Minister, as regionalist regionalists, I'm telling you that this attitude towards the government of Vojvodina is not good and destroys the political idea that you and I are in favour of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13216	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. After him, MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13217	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SPO and DHSS have prepared very carefully for this session, considering it very important because of the importance and value of the investments that will come into our country, but also because of the creation of new jobs and the fact that freedom of resources is now lacking in the world, that only a few countries offer them and that potential investors are hoping and significantly more developed countries than Serbia. The Serbian Renewal Movement will support most of these agreements. We remain contentious about the land in Vojvodina, regardless of what we absolutely know about the real situation, the annulled privatisation, the restructuring companies that have no power or capacity to come out of the restructuring process and there are not many interested potential investors, and as far as irrigation is concerned, if I am not mistaken, Serbia only 12% of its land is irrigated and these two last catastrophic droughts have shown that we have some unimaginable situations to sow past large rivers of droughts and that yields are falling significantly, etc. On the other hand, the major canals most represented for irrigation in Vojvodina, such as the Great Baška Channel, are today the largest septic caves in Europe. We don't have the capacity to clean them up, put them in order, put them in function. We had plenty of time to do it, but it cost a lot. That's what people should be told so simply. Investors, especially investors from Arab countries, have their long-term vision about what the future should invest in, and that is their angle of view of these investments. As regards the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of a state export credit, signed on 1 January 2013, with what is the position of the SPO that regardless of what we think Serbia's future is in the family of European peoples, we also feel that we should have extremely well balanced relations with the great Russian Federation and that, in addition to these friendly, cultural, historical and all other ties, we should develop economic co-operation more and more in all areas, which is also the interest of the Russian Federation. Our MPs have talked countless times in this assembly about the major problems of the Serbian Railways company, that our railways are in very poor condition, that very little goods are being transported to our railways, that very few passenger transports are being carried, that huge subsidies, that the infrastructure is being abandoned and that trains are moving at 35km per hour, the same way that it was the day the first railways were opened in Serbia at the time of the Serbian Principality. We have pointed out countless times, almost when there was a debate on one agreement that railway stations are our facilities that rose the picture of the state in relation to "Serb Railways" and show one total devastation of the entire system. It's completely different in the world. Railway stations such as a train station in Madrid are facilities of exceptional importance which have, among other things, in their composition and tropical gardens. In many countries when someone wants to particularly host you, honors you, he takes you to lunch or dinner at a train station, like a train station in Paris, Munich or New York. We are far from it and whatever the railway station in Belgrade at the time of its creation was a representative object it is now far from what should be and the situation in our railways. The minister said something I wanted to say about how to use this $800 million. The Valjevo-Loznica track was, that is, the completion of the construction of this railway was the topic of many governments, and it is a subject that lasts for a few decades, but it is definitely the point of our parliamentary group that these planned 270 million should be rerouted to modernising existing infrastructure, and I believe that professional studies will also show that the number of transport and transport of passengers would show economic inequitableness, at this point, and investment and should be left for a happier time. We have with the Russian Federation about 30 current agreements, declarations, etc. Of course, there have always been some debates that are, in the view of our parliamentary group, quite unserious. There people were dividing themselves into rusophiles and those who did not like the Russians, then some overly and inappropriately praised some of the agreements reached, such as the oil-gas deal, while others still did not adequately dispute its value and importance, and we were always, among them, always looking at what is primarily our country's interest. In terms of these agreements, we have made it clear that it seems to us that our negotiating team should be much more ready, that it should have done what the Russians did, that before reaching those agreements, the best experts in the world, because the price of their engagement is much less than what can later come as one part of the damage. Of course, such a kind of agreement is always greater in the future than possible and potential damage. As regards the Agreement with the Kuwaiti Fund for Arab and Economic Development, it should be said that it is a state fund that has huge financial resources and Kuwait on its part, what I just said, takes care of one long-term state strategy, because Kuwait is one of the few countries that almost completes food for the needs of its population imports and is certain that, taking into account both current oil and oil reserves, they are on their own quite rightly thinking about future investments and what is the economic future for their country. We think that this kind of deal with Kuwait is absolutely good, that it will mean a lot in the construction of a main railway station that, if I'm not mistaken, 37,000 square meters and what SCI and DHSS expect is that, after the construction of that railway station, we never talk about what we're talking about for years, both in public and in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we're in that part of the 19th century. What is very important to us is the Agreement on the Co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. The agreement in the area of security policy is absolutely good, and it should be unreservedly supported. In addition to recognising what we always talked about when we talked about our military industry experts and about the professional staff available to the Yugoslav Army, it is, to remind, a measure of respect in world terms. This is what the Emirates recognized even though we're going to employ existing capacities, the other effect I expect, which is that we're going to hire some new people, and I think the economic benefit is too much to talk about. All other forms of co-operation in the field of sport, in various economic areas, are acceptable to the position of our political parties. What appears as a dilemma, which is the long-term lease of agricultural land, because we are aware of it and we have consistently stressed that the state needs to invest more in agricultural production. The agricultural budget has been increased, we have passed a law on fostering agricultural production, but then we said all of this for the needs of Serbian agriculture is insufficient. Without this kind of investment, we are absolutely aware of this, given the economic situation in our country and since any areas of social life are being touched, we will see the terrible, devastating consequences of the communist rule, then Milosevic's governments and failed transitions in which the dominant leftist parties, who played a dominant role in the transition process, have largely devalued Serbia's European path. In this sense, according to our programming principles, we believe that the time for those political parties is right, democratic, folk orientations that created the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and broken by left-wings. These parties formed the idea of the EU, and the biggest crises in EU governments are created by left-wing governments, and the current world situation shows us that in China's largest communist paradise, under the allegations, there are now the most billionaires. They're second-rate billionaires all over the world. So much for communist justice and equality from the point of view of our political parties. As parties to right orientation, we believe that a serious and responsible state should co-operate with everyone, to look at its interest, but above all, that we have on all sides reasons for and against relevant indicators in the conclusion of such an important agreement. If you took the view of various experts, individuals, if you read, on the one hand, ten opinions that are against, an ordinary citizen would say that it was a disaster for the country, that it was a sell-out of the country, that it was an sale of non-renewable resources, that we would be economically lost, that our citizens, who would have rented this land, deprived of their rights to tender, to bid, etc., and on the other hand we had a process of tycunisation that lasted the last 23 years, and especially in the last 13 years, where tycoons from neighbouring countries, and domestic tycoons, bought huge land properties. We rarely have an example of tycoonisation giving effect in terms of benefit to our citizens. On the other hand, in the process of restitution, because the Government passed a Restitution Act for which Mr. Zika Gojkovic and I did not vote precisely because of the absence of the substitution and because the restitution did not separate land properties that were taken away on various grounds. So one of the dilemmas that we're setting, as far as the land in Vojvodina is concerned, is what about that land that could be the subject of restitution. Secondly, what do you do with current laws? So, the Agricultural Land Act, what to do with a law that stipulates that under equal conditions a land can be leased to potential tenants. I know a similar thing was done with an oil-gas deal? We had similar dilemmas, and then we brought them out. It's always, let's say, the supreme, state-of-the-art interest of something that can, at some point, derivate the existence of current laws, the interest of individuals, the interest of social groups. Since we are parties that advocate respect for legality, I must ask that question in front of our political parties. Will we close this agreement and execute some kind of direct agreement? That's the question we're looking for to answer, so we can break our dilemma whether we can vote for this or not. Then what do you do if some land is leased for 30 years with legal provisions that say that land can be rented for up to 20 years? What will be the overall social-economic consequences? We think, since we know that the state has no money, that all these investments have come well, that all these farms are combined literally in ruins, that the equipment is obsolete, that it is necessary not only to settle their debts, but also to get new equipment, to employ people, that there is plenty of money for investments, for irrigation etc. What's very good about all this is that our citizens with registered agricultural households will also be able to get their loans. If the state can't help them enough, then it's the government's obligation to provide investors who can do it. We've pointed out countless times here to some positive examples from our environment. You, Minister, as well as SCI and DHSS, are someone who advocates regionalization and decentralisation of the country. We have now had numerous meetings with the parties from Slovenia for the weekend. We have always pointed out these Slovenian good examples here, because they, here Ljubljana, who was in Ljubljana at the time of the formation of a multi-party system and now who went to Ljubljana, will see that Ljubljana remained, not with the same number of inhabitants, but that the number of inhabitants was reduced by thirty thousand, that Ljubljana did not, apart from the shopping centres and some industry and investments, expand excessively, in terms of a new residential space, because of the simple fact that they are the decentralisation model of politrical development, the creation of conditions for quality living in the country and in smaller places, to this extent well developed and arranged to, in addition to our own, where we have in Belgrade every year 40 or 50,000 new residents, Ljubljana lost 30,000 people, who went to live in the country or in smaller places for, first of all, two dominant reasons - because they have, first of all, the same conditions, the same conditions as for living in a smaller city or second place. Third, they want to live in healthy environments. That's what the SPO in the future, because of the catastrophic demographic situation, wants to see this government run. If this government brings and implements a serious strategy in that direction, we will support it. Until that happens, we will constantly point to this kind of problem, as we have repeatedly pointed to problems in the railways, whether we were part of the ruling majority or we are the opposition party as we are now. What's about investing in agriculture well, it's really going to be a huge amount of investment, that these agricultural combinations, which we definitely have to say, have no perspective and no chance, have the conditions to renovate their production first and hopefully in the future and employ some new people. I say, after these investments, after electrification of fields, after cleaning existing channels, developing new irrigation systems, not only in Vojvodina, but also in Machva and south of Belgrade, Serbia will begin to create some image that the SPO with DHSS wanted to see from the beginning. We must not forget that the Serbian peasant, a Serbian farmer, has always been through centuries and centuries a feeder and defender of this country, but that somehow always during the distribution of money, at the distribution of the state budget, he was on the sidelines. What you could have done, certainly, ministers, and what we hear daily in contact, not just this year or several years ago, but decades ago, is that Serbian peasants are disappointed in the state's relationship with them, saying that their country has left them at risk. (President: 20 minutes. I'm sorry, I'm done. We fully agree with that, and that is why we think that this investment is really welcome. I expect you to answer the questions I asked you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13218	Does the minister want a word? Yeah. ) Since the minister wants a word, the MPs who are registered in the electronic system will have to be deleted in order for the minister to get the word. When the minister finishes his presentation, the next order will be given to MPs: Arpad Fremond, Judita Popovic, Nenad Popovic, Zoran Angelkovic and Dragan Šormaz. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13219	Thank you. Here, let me answer some of these questions. So we checked, the land currently owned by these failed combinations isn't the subject of restitution, and that's why this question you asked doesn't cover it. The other thing is that the very nature of the interstate agreement is such that the interstate agreement is above other laws, if, of course, this assembly confirms it. Hence, the possibility that this part of the land "July 7th" from Surcin, these 2,982 hectares can be issued for a period of 30 years, which is longer than these 20 years. It is true that contracts to be concluded on the basis of an interstate agreement will not be subject to public procurement. Therefore, it is a direct agreement and it is clearly stated in the text of an interstate agreement. But they'll all be public and, as you've seen, these property-related prices are almost double the market value. The public will always have insight when the government closes a specific contract. In fact, the Emirates have such a natural nature that, on the one hand, they will never underestimate anyone, always pay even more, as they have now done here. It's simple, and they're too rich to go now to embarrass ourselves in front of our citizens to give bad prices. They won't pay too much compared to what the market price is, but they never go to auctions, they never go to tenders. Whoever wants to do business with them will either go straight to a direct contract or not to do business with them. However, our legislation also allows for our Constitution if the Assembly approves it. If the Assembly votes this interstate agreement, then it will be possible. Otherwise it wouldn't be possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13220	The word has a People's MP, Arpad Fremond, and according to the Rules of Procedure, after it will have the People's MP Dusan Petrovic and the People's MP Dubravka Filipovski, and then the MP Judita Popovic. The word has been made by the People's MP Arpad Fremod.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13221	The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, Mr. Minister, respected fellows, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda of several agreements between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, signed at the beginning of the current year. One refers to co-operation in the area of defence, one to avoid double taxation in relation to income taxes, one to mutual incentives and protection of investments, and there is also a bill to confirm the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which I will focus most on in my presentation. At first, I would like to stress that these agreements will surely support the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on co-operation in the area of defence and agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes. The SVM parliamentary group has always supported this kind of co-operation and we will do it this time. The agreement on co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates and the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates on mutual incentive and investment protection, we believe that they are not detailed enough and there are several open issues related to them. In recent months, one of the main topics of co-operation between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates has been among agricultural producers. Personally, I take part in various stands with agricultural producers and believe me, each of these stands is being asked questions about this co-operation. Agricultural producers are concerned, do not have enough information and do not know exactly how long this agricultural co-operation will go, not now, but in the future and what consequences it will have on them. Otherwise, our parliamentary group also held talks with Minister of Agriculture Goran Knezevic on this topic. He assured us that, as far as agricultural co-operation is concerned, Serbia will benefit only from this co-operation. However, we believe that this agreement is not detailed, that there are insufficient guarantees in it and we do not know what the consequences will have on our agriculture. We from the SVM view this agreement as an agreement voted in the National Assembly four and a half years ago and it is an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation in co-operation in the area of oil and gas economy. As you know, SVM was one of the three parties in the previous National Assembly meeting that did not vote to confirm the agreement. The situation is very similar. Four and a half years ago, we said we weren't against Russian capital, and I can do that again today in this case because of course we're not against capital from the East of the United Arab Emirates. We were against an agreement with Russia, and this occasion we will be against an agreement with the United Arab Emirates because we believe that the investor, or the other Contracting Party, is favoured and that the Republic of Serbia is placed in an unequal position. We've always been, and we'll always be against unwarranted favors. Why do I say that? Because of this agreement, the Republic of Serbia gives the foreign investor the opportunity to bypass the regular legal privatisation and its procedure and to bypass the procurement process. Unfortunately, neither was the opinion of the province government, or the Ministry of Agriculture of the Republic of Vojvodina, nor did we hear the opinion of the expert team formed by the government of the AP Vojvodina several months ago. What does it matter? Ladies and gentlemen, there are no details in this agreement, but there is a pre-negotiation through which it is seen that the United Arab Emirates will buy more state-owned companies in agricultural land and most of all in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We believe that in this way the Republic of Serbia will lose the right to own agricultural land, which is a natural wealth that will be a natural wealth in 100 and 500 years. Once again, I must point out that we have never been, nor will we ever be against any investor or any investment. We believe that investments are welcome, that they are necessary and that without an external capital infusion, without the development of economy, infrastructure and agriculture in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, we will tap into the city for decades. It doesn't even matter which country this investment comes from. But it would be good to say clearly and loudly how much Al Dahra, along with the Serbian side, invests annually in Serbia. We need to see how much it costs, how much profits it brings, how much the citizens of Serbia lose due to certain interstate agreements and rules adopted in the National Assembly. In my opinion, the agreement is in many elements indefinite. The parties will cooperate in several fields, such as and the area of agriculture, through investments in irrigation of land and drainage systems and modernisation and supply of the necessary agricultural equipment. We certainly support this, as well as the establishment of joint experimental and research centres in the areas of agriculture, forestry and the environment. The agreement also provides for investments in the development of agricultural production. But what else does it say in the agreement, which we find problematic? In order to invest in the development of agricultural production and modernisation of existing agricultural infrastructures, the Republic of Serbia is prepared to offer assets in state-owned agricultural companies, long-term lease of agricultural land and/or business co-operation, all by the rules and conditions agreed by the parties to this Agreement or by each party and private sector or agreed by the private sector of both sides, which will be regulated by special agreements, contracts. The question is, what kind of special agreements or contracts will all be regulated? Will they be in the congregation procedure? Will they all be ratified? We think the public should know about them. We object to the sale of agricultural land, i.e. state-owned companies in such a way as not to organise a public tender, in accordance with the provisions of the Privatisation Act and the Sales Method Regulation. The agreement we are discussing – given the importance of agricultural production, its share in the GDP of the Republic of Serbia, any improvement in the business environment related to agriculture and the availability of financial resources, will have huge social and economic significance in this area. Okay, but do you know exactly what the economic significance of this co-operation will be? Has the Government of the Republic of Serbia made any studies regarding the size of economic importance? If so, we'd like to read them. We know there's a pre-negotiation of co-operation in the area of agriculture. We've read it, but simply, some questions about this job remain open. The biggest problem is that public agricultural land is leased for 30 years without a tender to a company in which foreigners will have (not understood) ownership. We know that they will pay 250 euros per hectare, but we also know that our agricultural producers in some municipalities pay twice as much. According to the Law on Agricultural Land, the right to repurchase is reserved by agricultural producers living in the Catastrian municipality where the state agricultural land is located. The question is – what size of state agricultural land will the Republic of Serbia offer to a foreign investor, since there is no word in the agreement on this? There's a pre-contract, but the pre-contract doesn't oblige either side. The question is, where is the border, and in the future, where is the border of this co-operation? Agricultural land is a natural wealth. Agricultural land, as I said, will be a natural treasure in 500 years. Every country in the environment keeps its natural wealth, its agricultural land, knowing that food will be the highest value in decades to come. Mr. Minister, farmers are afraid because they do not know what awaits them and how this cooperation will affect them. Convince them they won't suffer any damage due to these agreements. Mr. Minister, is there any guarantee that a new joint company will take over the workers of these state combinations? I don't see that guarantee in this agreement or the pre-contract. I want to underline once again that we in SVM think investors are welcome, investments are necessary. We don't mind working with the United Arab Emirates. Therefore, we will support the proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on co-operation in the field of defence and the proposal for a law to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income taxes. But the agreements relating to agriculture, therefore, are not supported by the proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates because of the uncertainty of the text and because there is no guarantee in the agreement that domestic agricultural producers will not suffer any damage, and that workers in these combinations will be kept a job. Time will show whether the fears of agricultural producers were justified. We hope that our agricultural producers will still not suffer any major damage and that we will really benefit from this cooperation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13222	Ten minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13223	I can't help but mention this exposure of yours - incredible insanity. Do you know how many foreigners are working land in Vojvodina today? Double what's in the contract proposal with Al Dahr, about 25,000 ha. Don't you mind companies from Hungary that have companies in Vojvodina and process land, from Croatia, from Ireland, from some other countries? How come suddenly this problem in your party with the Emirates? Why are the Emirates different from your Hungarians or Croats? Croatians and Hungarians are our neighbours and may have some political claims in the future. If there are national interests to be feared, we should not fear for a country thousands of miles away from Serbia. Will the Emiracans take the Dukeland there to the Emirates? I can't, it's physically impossible. I don't know why such claustrophobia. Next, did you raise your voice when it came to an interstate agreement regarding a direct NIS contract? Can we compare NIS to JAT, with Luke Panchevo, which is not operational, with eight failed combinations, with a collapsed General Staff building? Ask yourself what the Emirates are getting here and what we're getting. What about eight failed combinations? What about the collapsed building? Is it better if we keep it down like that? Is it better to build a new hotel? JAT, the gem, what are we talking about? We made an agreement with them to solve all the problems we couldn't solve for years and decades. Did someone else give us money with 0.5% interest to make watering and draining channels? We need a red carpet to stretch them out. What they're doing with us, it hasn't done a single country realistically yet, and I don't see a question at all. You say - you don't mind it's not a tender. Do the tender guarantee success. Did the privatisations that were made in the tender, the auctions were all successful? How did these eight agricultural combinations fail? The tender is not a guarantee of success. That's what the time has shown. Well, these eight combinations have failed, there are 30 million euros in debts. What about PIC Vienna? How was he bought? Well, in a tender. How many other companies from the industry have failedly privatized in the tender. Let's not slave for form, it's important to me. If these people, you say, did we run an economic analysis, would this be positive for us or for them? That country only has reserves, outside of their social product, 1.3 trillion dollars, that's a thousand and 300 billion dollars. And our total annual GDP is about 40 billion, 32.5 times more in reserves than Serbia produces all year round. Indeed, instead of applauding the Government for what we've done, we're trying to put on our feet a company that piles up losses like JAT, to put into operation Luka Panchevo, to put into operation eight failed combinations, to put into function some unused buildings that go here and in downtown Belgrade, to make the canals of irrigation and draining cheap funds on the long term. I don't think you're fair. The way you talk, I don't know, the country is a natural treasure that shouldn't be spent, I totally agree. But let's watch for real. There are two million hectares of land in Vojvodina, and they will use 14,000 acres, calculate what 14 thousand is compared to two million. That's a negligible percentage. Plus, as I've already said, the companies from Hungary, Croatia, from some other countries already use the duchy country, so I haven't heard any fuss or fuss about it. It's simple, we have either good investors or bad investors no matter where they come from. They'll invest you asked, but you didn't hear that, I'll repeat, $400 million in all this. So 300 million euros or 400 million dollars, one part goes to the property, and the other part goes to the irrigation cans on those parcels, the third part to the cattle-food factories that will employ additional people. There are now 500 people waiting for the bankruptcy of these combinations. What's the future of these combinations if we don't do this? You're out of Did anyone ask what the rights of people in bankruptcy are? No, they don't even have the right to a social program. You're asking what's gonna happen to the workers? Everyone will be invited to talk, they'll get a job for those who can work, and those who won't or won't get a social program. If this were to go into bankruptcy, they would have gotten what the people would have said. So I don't see any reason for abstention. This interstate agreement gives us the opportunity to solve some of the problems we have to solve. The Emirates, believe me, I'd like you to go to Abu Dhabi, have no problems. There are a million and a half of them, in a country of eight million inhabitants, there are other foreigners. They don't have any problems, we have problems. They're coming to help us. We help them in a country that has a chip factory abroad, which has two of the most powerful companies, who own the Manchester City city of Emirat Arena in England, someone asked why in the field of sports? Because if they invest in Manchester City, what are we missing from investing in our clubs? So, if they built the Emirat Arena in London, what are we missing from building some stadium in Serbia? Oh, I should, I'm serious, the red carpet is a small thing. We need them more than we need them. So I'm just asking you, I'm simply asking you, that we're dealing with facts that they didn't come here to take advantage of us, but to help us. Now if someone's treating it differently, I can't help it anymore. I'm trying to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13224	The word has a People's MP, Arpad Fremond, entitled to a two-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13225	I must once again point out that we have never been, nor will we ever be against any investor or any investment. Investments are welcome and I think they are necessary for us. We oppose the sale of agricultural land, i.e. state-owned companies in such a way as not to organise a public tender. These foreign companies, you said that foreigners have property in agricultural land, they took some companies through the tender. Are they successful or not? I think some are successful, some are not. Some domestics also bought some cooperatives, or state companies. I'll give you an example of Pachir, I come from Pachir, a village located in the Municipality of Backo Topola. Matijević "Agrar" owns 1,200 hectares in Pacir. Ask me if there's even one worker from Pachir? No, because it's the center, the base is in Baimok. So what is extremely important to us, we need to do everything to preserve agricultural land, that is our natural wealth, and that is why we oppose this collaboration. I say one more time, farmers are afraid because they don't know what's waiting for them. I'm not afraid of co-operation because now we have a pre-negotiation and we'll have some cooperation, and we'll have some cooperation in a year and two. So, the question is, will more foreigners take agricultural land? Time will show whether or not the fears of agricultural producers were justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13226	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. After him, MP Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13227	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when it is the most interesting agreement on agricultural land and the entry of companies from the Emirates, it is certainly a political decision to discuss it and the most political body in the country. Political decisions are made when things do not go the regular way, to go the regular way then procedures would be provided for by the relevant laws and applied. The question arises whether this political decision is good or not. The ZZS parliamentary group will support these contracts even though there are several open issues. It is one decision that should open the door, according to my court and our joint assessment, one new business space for Serbia's entire economy, and above all for Serbia's food industry. For that reason, Mr. Minister, I think your work will only begin when this session is completed in Parliament if this law gets support, and I will say something about other laws. Because I don't think the point is just whether 14,000 acres of land under this agreement, or the law on its validation, is going to enter into such a property structure as is provided for by contract and law, but it's going to be one much broader and more significant thing. I believe this is an opportunity for the food industry in Serbia, and therefore also for agriculture, which is a raw materials base for the food industry, to open up a whole new space and I believe that this is an opportunity for oil, sugar, meat processing, but also for the conditioning industry to get a new market, that is Mr. Minister, a new task for you. The ZZS parliamentary group will appreciate the success of this political action that has an economic basis for it, it would be a shame if the opportunity were missed. We'll see when it's half a year, or a year where we've arrived. As for the farmers, I think we'll have the opportunity to improve the prospects of anyone who deals with agriculture. So, there's no confusion here. In my court, most of the people who do agriculture in Vojvodina are not happy that this is happening. We need to respect that fact and understand it. No matter what we are an opposition parliamentary group, we will support this proposal because we consider it a public interest. I think it's good for Serbia, I think it's good and it's good for farmers both in Srem and Banat and in Backo, but also with Central Serbia, or for the rest of Serbia, I don't know exactly what to call it, because I think we're going to establish new standards in production. I think it's good to see when all the technical rules and all the agrotechnical measures are applied, how powerful agriculture can be in this country. As for the political issues of other species, which are not on the agenda here, because our Constitution is who it is. I think that a well-organised state of Serbia, if it were well-organised, and unfortunately not, would have had to get the consent of either the government of the AP Vojvodina or parliament today, so that this high house could pass such a law. To be honest, it's not clear to me, either, what the province government, what position it represents, since it's gone from merciless to unloved, dealing with this issue. If she supported it, I think it's a good decision, if she didn't support it, we'd be good to see what the reasons and arguments are, but somehow it's left in the fog, like the government in Novi Sad made the decision. Otherwise, I firmly believe that as Vojvodina has its parliament, it has a government, it has a budget, as Belgrade has its parliament, it has the executive power, it has a mayor, but it is not too different, it has its own budget, I deeply believe that this remaining part of Serbia, from Presevo to Bubanj Potok, and from Zaječar, Kladova and Negotina to Užica, Prepolje and Priboa, should have its own parliament, it should have its own executive power, it should have its own budget. I believe that all these issues should be dealt with by the parliaments of the executive authority of these three continents, and then this assembly would not have had much of a essence to declare, but would have, of course, the need and necessity of these foreign and foreign trade aspects to make its decision. Not a contract like this, and when Serbia is redecorated, it won't be possible to pass without the state parliament in which we are sitting here today. As for the military contract, I think it's very important, and good to open up space for our military industry. As far as I can tell, Mr. Minister, the Arab Emirates military industry is very much relying on the NATO Pact's military industry, and I think it's good for Serbia to become in this military industrial part a few steps closer to what is one of the aspects of North-Atlantic integration. Also, I think the rules that will be set up here to avoid double taxation are good. It's a good thing it's in this package the Law on Confirmation of Agreements with Russia. It's the previous government where Mr. Minister, in fact, we weren't together, you went out when I entered, but regardless, your party did. These are technical details. It was your party, it was the party I was in back then, and we spent a long time with the Russians agreeing on all this, so, well, that government failed, this one did, so I don't see it would be fair, as you say we are now against something we did together in one way or another, and I think it's a good thing, and it's a public interest to use these 800 million dollars in modernising the railway in Serbia. It is good that our poor country opens its external economic co-operation in different directions, both with the Arab world and with Russia, so we will enter the EU sooner, and I think that is the fundamental, state, political objective. So once again, the Joint Parliamentary Group for Serbia will support these international agreements and their confirmation. Mr. Minister, let's see how you will take this great opportunity and a great task, which I believe, that this Parliament will give to you today, and to export more food and all the products of the processing industry to the entire Arab world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13228	Eight minutes spent since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13229	Thank you. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, we have three very important international agreements ahead, with the Russian Federation, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. The three agreements show the commitment of the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue economic recovery, economic consolidation, and the fact that infrastructure projects for Serbia are important, no matter what part of the world they come from. Finally, the conditions have been met for the so-called Russian loan to be realised, and for us to engage in the realisation of very important projects, which are designed mainly for rail traffic and train purchase. So the modernisation of the Belgrade-Bar track, building 111km on Corridor 10, then the purchase of diesels by train via the Russians, the construction of the electrification of the second track of the Belgrade-Pancevo railway line and Valjevo-Loznica, is indeed of great importance to the state of Serbia. I think that the particularly important conditions under which this loan was obtained, and relating to the period of availability of the credit, are within five years of the year of entry into force of this agreement, that the tariff may also be extended and that the interest is 4.1%) on an annual basis, and that it begins for four years, which means that the period of repayment of the first consolidated amount of credit will begin in 2017 and ends in 2031. As for the Treaty of the Republic of Serbia with Kuwait, I am glad that you started to present data and, when it comes to Kuwait and Emirates, in general, on the economic progress of these countries' capabilities. I would like to contribute to saying that the GDP of Kuwait is at an annual level of 167.9 billion dollars, and that it is a very important agreement that Serbia will sign, and that the National Assembly ratifys the construction of the railway station "Prokop", given that we have a 40-year delay in building this very important infrastructure project, according to him, Belgrade's railway station is one of the most important points on the pan-European traffic corridor, and a project of great importance for the development of railway infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. Also, I believe that finally with the beginning of the construction of Prokop, not only urban projects will be solved, but our construction operation will be employed, and the realisation of this project is in line with the strategy for the development of rail, road, water, air and intermodal transport in Serbia from 2008 to 2015, which aims to raise the quality of transport system services, increase the level of safety and safety of the transport system and reduce the negative impact of transport on the environment. As for the interstate agreement between the Arab Emirates and the Republic of Serbia, it does create a legal framework for co-operation in several areas – in the areas of agriculture, food industry, military-economic co-operation, in river shipping. It is very interesting that the United Arab Emirates, with 4.7 million inhabitants, are the richest country in the Arab world, to have an annual gross social product of $360 billion, to lie on oil and gas reserves, but I believe that, first of all, they owe their rise to the wise domestic and foreign policy of the Sheik Zajed, the father of the nation. I also welcome the decision by the government of the Republic of Serbia to open an embassy of Serbia in the United Emirates, with the aim of strengthening ties, particularly economic co-operation in the areas I have cited. If only two important projects are implemented with the United Arab Emirates, I think we will have a major economic recovery in the coming period. When I say so, I mean first of all the purchase of the Serbian missile system "Alas", where in the first four years, the United Arab Emirates are projected to invest $220m. If this country in Belgrade builds an IT technology factory, I think we will indeed be leading in Southeast Europe. I would just like to point out here that this country has built this high-tech factory so far in Singapore and Germany, that it is currently being built in the United States and that a great success for Serbia will be if the negotiations are successfully brought to an end and the construction of this factory begins in Belgrade as well. I believe that this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Emirates is in the area of defence of Article 3 of the precisely defined area of co-operation, and Article 4 defines forms of co-operation in this area. Also, the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation stimulates the investment of capital on both sides, and above all their country with us and the sixth agreement, between our two countries on mutual incentive and investment protection, in fact, shows the willingness of the parties to both Serbia and the Arab Emirates to be not only as Serbia and Russia so far, that they have the treatment of the most privileged nations and I consider this a very important investment agreement on both sides. For all those who have raised any kind of skepticism so far, when it comes to investing Emirat in Serbia, I want to say that this country is very cautious when investing in the world, that the countries in which they invest their US and EU capital. In my opinion, the Emirat's desire to invest in the state of Serbia actually shows that the Emirates recognized the current government's serious intentions, to make Serbia a safe place to invest in capital and that Serbia is thus getting a reliable and respectable partner. And finally, I want to tell you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support all these agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13230	Nine minutes have been used since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, followed by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13231	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are today discussing four agreements and two contracts. It's about negotiating and agreeing with three states, with Kuwait, Russia and the Arab Emirates. First of all, to point out that we LDP can only support any kind of international co-operation. We are for one maximum openness of this country, openness to other countries, openness to neighbours, neighbouring countries, openness to foreign investment. We have no problem with whether or not international contracts should be concluded, attracting as many foreign investors as possible, it is for us in fact a recipe on how this country can overcome the crisis it is in. That's not the problem with us. However, Mr. Minister, I was pleased to hear how optimistic you are. I don't know, and I don't believe that optimism has any basis in everything that's going on in Serbia today, as well as in these bill proposals. You, in fact, when you proposed these laws to be ratified by this Parliament, you, as a government, asked parliament to give support to us MPs. You asked us to trust you. Today someone said and mentioned a council, a public interest was mentioned, mentioning how much it takes for both the government and the opposition to do something in common in the public interest, including when it comes to this kind of law that is on the agenda. I'd like to say, and I think it's one of the most important agreements on the agenda today, on this co-operation agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. So we have nothing against co-operation and dealing with the Emirates. We're not against making deals, definitely, we're not against making framework agreements and that's also fine. But here, in the light of this law, we have encountered one illogicality. Namely, the government reached its conclusion on 9 January 2013 and adopted the text of the Agreement on this co-operation with the Emirates. However, there have been some changes to the text of the agreement as early as February 11th. The explanation does not show whether the government has met again, whether the government has discussed it again. There's been a change of text. It's said to be a technical mistake, and we can accept that. You say – the essential agreement, the text of the agreement has not been changed, and we can accept it, but only because you rely again on us to ask for trust, to ask us to support you. How are we supposed to trust this government? How can we give her the trust we need when the Prime Minister publicly declares that for decades Kosovo is ours, and officially no one has told the truth? So, if no one has officially spoken the truth and if the Prime Minister, the government in which you sit as a minister, claims that more than a decade has been lying about Kosovo, about the sacred Serbian country, what do we expect, how honest you will be about some of the more insignificant, minor things in relation to such a major national issue, such as the issue of Kosovo. So how can we trust you that this framework agreement will really be the most positive, the best and that it will bring the most benefits to Serbia, if you are already making this kind of mistake on the first step? Simply, the question of credibility where we can find a common point when you really have a problem convincing us that you're honest, that you won't lie, that you haven't lied and that you won't lie in the future. There's a saying in the people: "Who lies and steals." Then what are we going to do, Mr. Minister, if the Prime Minister says he lied? What are we going to say and what can we expect for the future of this same government and the same ministers sitting in that government, and according to the prime minister, no one has officially told the truth about this Kosovo? So that's really the problem. We're not gonna talk about whether it's good or bad legal work. You mentioned both claustrophobia and humanism and the atruism of this other side. The contractor, the investor, he's not even a humanist, he's not an autruist. He simply wants to find some interest in a legal job. It's his legitimate right. It is only a question of how much Serbia has worked to truly respect this very legitimate rights of citizens of Serbia, to respect their rights, their right to life and the right to progress in this country through these types of agreements and agreements. Let's continue this conversation about the railroad. We've got a contract here that's about to go to the railroad. Mr. Minister, what's going on with all those sublaws that were supposed to be passed about the Law on Public Enterprises to improve these public enterprises? Has all this been done to avoid all these potential sources of corruption that are currently active in public enterprises, and the Railway is also a serious public enterprise with serious debts, which only increases those debts year after year? Indeed, it is a question of what happens to the Law on Public Enterprises, whether it was seriously thought, when the law was passed, that it would be applied, and whether it was all done that this law was actually implemented through these sublegal acts so that the Railway would finally be introduced in some way into legal frameworks, introduced into some procedures that generally lack Serbia whenever it comes to economics, about finance. You're the finance minister. So, you're someone who should be as objective as possible, maximum pragmatic as possible, so you should make sure that it's about that law that you've promoted, that you've defended, that you've proposed, that you've so advocated, and so many of our amendments you've adopted since you've recognized someone in us who wants to fix those laws, that you actually make sure that this law finally lives. So that's terribly important. I'd go back to that fact that you're asking us for trust and asking us for some kind of consent. We are simply not ready to be complicit in everything that is being done today in Serbia. We are not ready, because when someone becomes an accomplice, it becomes the same to this extent responsible for all the things that are currently being done, which are not in Serbia's interest. I'd like to ask you one more time, Mr. Minister, what are you building on the credibility of this government to go out here to parliament and ask... I suppose the ruling coalition MPs will vote for these bill proposals, but how will you ask the opposition MPs to support you for these bill proposals? How will you convince us that these laws will ultimately not be the opposite of the optimism that you've been making today? It wouldn't be the first time, Mr. Minister, by this government, or you, who have been in various governments for many years. You might say changed circumstances, crises, one way or another, you might find the culprit on another, third, fifth side, and that's actually Serbia's biggest problem, which is always the culprits looking elsewhere. That is also the problem of the prime minister who today is saying how much the Constitution is a great burden to Serbia. That's the prime minister. That's the president of the SPS who voted so much for the Constitution. It was that man, a member of the SPS, who knew that it was being stolen in the Constitution, that the referendum was maximumly illegal, and yet he supported this constitution in this House. Today this constitution is a burden and today it is mentioned that in fact it was all a big lie. Then how can we believe that's not even in this case?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13232	11 minutes and 50 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13233	Ma'am, I listened very carefully to you for 11 minutes and 50 seconds, but believe me, I haven't heard why these agreements are bad for you. You didn't say a single word on that subject. What's wrong with being specific? Are you talking about Kosovo? What does Kosovo have to do with an agreement with the United Arab Emirates? You're asking why the government was changing the text of the agreement. Because the Emirates asked us to expand some areas of co-operation. Parliament has reached that version that was adopted by the government as the final version of the agreement that was signed. So two versions have not arrived in parliament. We in the government have a right and it is logical to use every opportunity to do so if something improves before we send it to Parliament. I'd really like you to tell me what's wrong with the deal with the Emirates that needs half a billion dollars to invest in Serbian agriculture, to get rid of eight failed combinations, to give us long-term credits for Serbian farmers, to invest in irrigation, to try to pull out a JAT together that's in a bad situation, to invest in logistics, in the cargo terminal, to Luka Panchevo, that possibly some real estate that nobody now has money to invest in, because the crisis is. There's a crisis in Western Europe. If they want to invest in real estate, why would they close that door for them? Do you doubt altruism? I think it's due to the fact that altruism doesn't exist in the western part of our world. I've already told you that 20 billion dollars a year spend on something they give to people who aren't in their country. They don't give to us, but they give to the Egyptians, to the Libyans, to the Moroccans, to the Tunisians. The Arab world, it's true, but it's altruism, I guess. It's not just weapons, it's food and stuff. We may not be used to meeting altruists, because there are very few, but I can tell you from this experience that they are not exclusively of business interest in the first place. Of course they have a healthy logic. Their nation was created under difficult circumstances. They're in the desert. From the Bedouins, they came to the point where they invested money in their people's education. They integrated four education systems into those who teach at their schools and universities. It's interesting that they use the model of Finland, Singapore, New Zealand for models that teach their staff. They usually finish colleges in America, but they're finally aware that we're one-sided country with talent and no money. The idea is simple. On the other hand, we have knowledge, we have personnel, we have no opportunities to develop, and they want to help on the basis of personal relationships. Here, I don't want to hide it. It is a personal relationship, but how many times have we had in history a situation where certain things are built on a personal relationship? I guess it's a good thing we have people in the government now who are able to establish that personal relationship. They cooperate with everyone, but based on personal relationships, they can give something more than usual. What's important is, tell me what's wrong with your agreement? What's wrong with the fact that we're investing $800 million from the Russian loan, which is long-term, in the Serbian railway? Mixing Kosovo with railways and investing in agriculture, I don't see what a similarity is, except for pure politics. Let me answer a question that has nothing to do with this, too. At the end, the creation of sublegislative acts is related to the application of the Law on Public Enterprises. We expect the competent committee of the Assembly to delegate to us within the next few weeks of its representative and we will choose that commission to conduct the tender. There's no assembly in lateness. The government will now send this material, but I believe that within the legal deadline that we have agreed, we will call all these public competitions, which is the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13234	National MP Judita Popovic. Right on the line for two minutes. Here you go. The MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure has an advantage over the replica and regular order, so MP Bojan Djuric, just sign in, wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13235	I'll be very brief. Chairman, Article 107. Rules of Procedure, dignity of the National Assembly. Mr Dinkic, deadlines for the adoption of sublegal acts, or the vast majority of sublegal acts, expired several weeks ago under the Law on Public Enterprises. So, your claim that within the deadline you will comply with these sublaws, or acts of the internal organisation of public enterprises, is simply not true. I think you're hurting Parliament's dignity when you say you're going to do it very soon in front of parliament, who passed those laws and left you precise deadlines. This has nothing to do with this provision of the Law on Public Enterprises, which speaks of the Commission, where Parliament's jurisdiction exists and the procedure is under way, but not all other regulations have been passed within the legal time limit. You recently adopted rules concerning one-time, or two-time corporate governance, also after the deadline. You have failed to comply with the internal acts and today you have a situation where the management of the public enterprise "The Paths of Serbia" tells you that it chooses the director, board of directors and supervisory board under the Law on Public Enterprises. You and I both know there are no boards in this law at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13236	People's MP, this is an abuse of the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and instead to be replicated to some of the parts of the speech or speech of anyone. There's no need and please don't do that. In principle, there's plenty of time for each of us to get a replica. So please don't do that. The word is made by MP Zoran Angelkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You want to replicate the MP Juditi Popovic on the basis of the party's mention? Then I ask you to complete the first round of replicas between Minister Mladjan Dinkic and Parliament. You'll be entitled to a replica. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13237	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, you've listened to me for 11 minutes, and I've listened to you for 11 years. All due respect to the Emirates, indeed maximum respect. We have no problem with the Emirates. The Emirates didn't lie to us about Kosovo. We were lied to by the Prime Minister and members of the government. The government lied to us. The United Arab Emirates have recognised Kosovo's independence. So much we can trust. I was talking about credibility, not that this agreement is bad or not. It is a framework agreement, Mr. Minister, and this framework agreement does not talk about a billion euros that you spoke of with a lot of enthusiasm and optimism.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13238	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13239	Mrs. Judith was here talking about a subject I don't know about that has anything to do with Emirita with Kosovo. That's also a big difference in geography. Something else I wanted to replicate is that it surprises me from this discussion that the lady was saying that I'm not going to do it now or how I wanted to do it. They have been talking about Kosovo for 10 years that it is not an integral part of Serbia. When the Prime Minister says the constitution doesn't work on KIM, then the problem is that the Prime Minister told the truth. What exactly is your problem? Today, in the afternoon debate, we had a similar topic about a law that we adopt because the previous majority of Serbian citizens did not accept. We know that the laws and the Constitution of a country are something that is normally right to pretend that most citizens accept. If most citizens do not accept something, or accept something in part of the territory, there must be some solution that will work. That's what the Prime Minister was talking about. What's bothering you now? You talk about it all the time. Since I've known about you, I've never agreed to that attitude, you've talked about it. I guess a man has the right to say something that's a fact. Secondly, here you said the Constitution was stolen, or more specifically it was falsely voted. Do you have any evidence for that? You present one fact that the people falsely voted for the Constitution and that boxes were filled or, as you have already said. Please file criminal charges against whoever stole it. The constitution was adopted by Serbian citizens and is respected in the state of Serbia. For the problems that exist in the Constitution, who is more responsible to raise the issue than the Prime Minister. Please return to this topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13240	National MP Judita Popovic seeks the right to reply. (Alexander Antic, from the place: How? ) By working with the application of Article 27, with the question of how – whether or not someone will receive a replica, the chairman decides. With the custody of the order in the session, you will be entitled to the replica and after that, if you challenge, the replica will have the one you challenge and the circle of the replica will be completed. We'll be back on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13241	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I was talking about a lie. The theme is a lie about Kosovo. Yes, the prime minister admitted he lied, but the prime minister did not apologize and the prime minister did not apologize for dozens of years lost for this country and for all Serbian citizens. Now that he's confessed, he can't have him amnesty for all the lies that take too long. That's the essence, the lie and the lack of will to ask for at least an apology for that lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13242	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Angelkovic, and that's the end of the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13243	I don't know where you came up with the conclusion that the prime minister lied? Where did you find the sentence that he spoke 10 years ago and today the other, about it? He was talking about the Constitution. If you're saying he's lying about what he said about the Constitution, it's the opposite of what you've been saying and what you've been saying for the past five, six years. That's the point. It's the same for voting around the Constitution. The SPS didn't write that constitution. We supported it because it always needs a new legal act and it needs to be arranged for this country. Your colleagues wrote it, and we support it. And in the next Constitution, if it is written, or changes to the Constitution, we will participate in accordance with the needs. Read what he said. On what basis do you draw conclusions when someone tells some truth that you normally agree with in your soul, as you know it, and now you say he's lying?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13244	The word is by MP Nenad Popovic, an authorised representative of the DSS parliamentary group. After him, MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13245	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, today's meeting is different from many of the others we've had in the last five years, and that's good. We're talking about a loan from the Russian Federation, a credit from Kuwait, and we're talking about an agreement with the United Arab Emirates. This confirms that the Democratic Party of Serbia's policy is not all money and all investment in the EU alone, but that we must turn to the whole world, both east and west, both north and south. The debate on confirming these laws is a step in the right direction. These agreements are good. We need loans for the infrastructure. No loan, we've been saying this for years, is expensive if we invest in infrastructure and domestic economy, and each is expensive if it's invested in consumption. On the other hand, these laws confirm the Democratic Party of Serbia's policy that it does not have to be an EU member so that we can co-operate with the whole world so that we can finance both the economy and the infrastructure. It is only necessary to make adequate effort and enormous energy and precisely these laws that we are talking about today confirm the possibility and confirm the position of the DSS. Again, the DSS is not against co-operation with the EU, but I want this co-operation to be on an equal footing, primarily in the field of economy, culture, etc. As for the law on confirming loans from the Russian Federation, which will be used most for our railway, it is a 800m-euro loan annually, with an interest of 4.1%. The projects are construction, I will list them here, and the electrification of the Belgrade-Pancevo railway line, the construction of a single-circuited railway line Valjevo-Loznica, the rehabilitation of six sections of the railway line along Corridor 10 along 111km and the modernisation of the Belgrade-Bar track. Of course the DSS welcomes the signing of these agreements, because they provide investment in the reconstruction of the railway network. Today, the average speed of railway trains in Serbia is 42km per hour, and the speed of more than 100km per hour is only allowed to 3% of the track. So only 3% of the train tracks have the ability to drive at a speed greater than 100 kilometers per hour. The average age of trains is over 30 years, and of course, I would like to say this information, over the last year 300 shares have been introduced in a total length of 400 kilometers, where the speed limit is 10 kilometers per hour. This all shows how much investment is needed in the next 10-15 years in railway infrastructure. Of course, we must also have trains that will allow transport from Subotica to Belgrade in less than two hours, but also, Mr. Minister, I want to point out the great importance of the Valjevo-Loznica railway. This 68 - mile [68 km] track will be designed, or designed for a speed of 120 kilometers [120 km] an hour. It is a huge step for western Serbia, both Valjevo and Loznica, but also for Banja Koviljaca, Mali Zvornik, for Ljubljana, and especially for Republika Srpska. I've learned from the media that you think this money should be transferred to the other side. There's no need, Mr. Minister. We must develop western Serbia. You are looking for an additional loan for the upgrade of the Novi Sad-Belgrade railway and Subotica-Novi Sad. That's where we'll back you up. Credits invested in infrastructure and economy are not expensive, especially in these very favourable and long-term ones. Make it possible for Western Serbia, I know that you supported, however, that this railway contributes to tomorrow and the development of economy and economic growth not only in western Serbia, but also in Republika Srpska. What I'd like to say is that the very important modernisation of the Belgrade-Bar railway is very important. If we watch what Albania is doing and what this false government is doing in Kosovo, they have invested huge funds with the help of their sponsors in building a highway from Pristina to Tirana. We have to do everything to modernise the Belgrade-Bar railway, with Montenegro. We must do everything possible to have the best communication with Republika Srpska and certainly that building the Belgrade-Bar highway must also be a priority for each government. It's not supposed to be party stuff. I think infrastructure investment with Montenegro, Republika Srpska should be of the highest priority. Railway traffic is the most funded throughout Europe. He's cheaper than road traffic. To build a railroad, it takes three times, even ten times less land than it does to build a railroad. It's greener and much cheaper. Even America today, which has the best road network in the world since this crisis started, has been focusing large investments on building railways, because it is considering the price of transport and what these investments bring. This enables the development of domestic economy. As for the 31m-dollar contract between Kuwait and the Republic of Serbia, this provides funds for the first phase of building the Belgrade railway node "Prokop". That's our international obligation, too, because this station is a very important checkpoint on Corridor 10. Of course, this project envisions, quote, building a new 37,000 square meters of railway station, eight main tracks, four side, five platform and building a tunnel for the future metro below the station. As in the case of loans from the Russian Federation, the DSS has a very principled position, I will repeat it once again, all investments in infrastructure that are in a catastrophic state in Serbia, especially in the railway sector, are of great importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also to the domestic economy. As for the laws with the Emirates, or the Government of the United Arab Emirates, the Emirates today have an unprecedented expansion on the world market. I'll give you some information on the trade trade that the United Arab Emirates have with some countries in the world. With the U.S., trade trade has increased in the last year twice and has reached $22 billion. Yes, in India in the last ten years, the Emirates have raised trade co-operation 23 times and amounts to $50 billion. With Turkish Emirates today, they are trading at 8.5 billion dollars, with France $7 billion, with Italy $5 billion, with Japan 50 billion. Unfortunately, with Serbia today, only $23m. That is why this agreement is a great opportunity and opens up a great deal of space for this co-operation to be improved. Of course, it is very important to understand why the Emirates are one of the biggest investors in the world today, what they are actually looking for in Serbia. They realized 20 years ago that oil finds are extremely important and that they also finance themselves, but they realized that renewable sources, especially food, are where they should invest, because they think in the long term, for the next 50 to 100 years. That's why they put agriculture as one of the key elements of this co-operation. About four years ago, Mr. Minister, in this room we also spoke, it was some laws with the EU, and then I said that we had to take care of co-operation with the Russian Federation, with the Arab world, because the trend of investment coming to Europe, America, India, Japan is the largest part of these economies. Of course, the DSS supports strengthening economic co-operation, especially in these crisis times with the UAE, because it is in the context of our policy, that we must co-operate with everyone and look for investments from around the world, not just, I will repeat, from the EU. I'd like to ask a few questions, since you can't see everything in this law and you can't see everything in the Al Dahra contract. First of all, there were some opportunities to sell land in this way to a foreign company, which will have 80% ownership. What I'm saying is that even though we've been pointing to it for the last five years, there's been no reaction. Many Croatian funds have been buying the country through some investment funds in the Republic of Serbia for 10 years. I wouldn't take that as a key thing in this element, but there is a need to think about how Serbia should relate to land sales. I'd also ask a question about the Al Dahra contract, where they're mentioned to be buying parts of the company. Personally, I don't think you should talk about parts of the company, because if they buy 70% of a company and take 70% of some personnel, will those 30% of the companies be able to work? I think you need to find a formula to sort of, the moment it's sold, to do the job, so it doesn't get into any problems afterwards, and where we can interfere with investors tomorrow in their development. As far as the PKK Institute is concerned, the question is what will happen to their PKB Agroeconomys Institute, because it is one of the extremely good elements of the PKK and it would be good if it were to be included, because it produces elite seeds of ware cultures and fruit seedlings. I'd also like to ask you a question about domestic science involvement. I think it's something that you could continue to negotiate with the Emirates to set as one of the elements that would have to develop. Domestic science, especially in agriculture, is crucial to us. I think the development of these research institutes should be to put on our side a condition, that domestic science must develop. That's the basis for our future. I'd do a little depression, Mr. Minister, where I would criticise your government so strongly. You see, we support a loan from Russia, we support a loan from Kuwait. We also support co-operation with the UAE because it's good, because we need investment. You can't find investors today. They're gone. It's really rare for a big investor like this to come and want to invest. You have to do everything you can to make it happen. I'll ask you one question, Mr. Minister, another time. We need markets, too. We can't give up any partners. Russia's, Kazakhstan and Belarus's market is one market, one customs union, and we are exporting to the customs union today without customs duties. Why did this government extend the sanctions to Belarus? Why? Mr. Minister, we've known each other for a long time, and I'm sure you're against it. Why should we close because the EU imposed sanctions on Belarus? That's their political story, that's their political reason. We have neither political nor economic reason to impose sanctions on Belarus, the most friendly country, a country that will never recognise Kosovo, a country that has opened its market for us. I call on you, Minister, that if you're chasing investors everywhere, we should be chasing markets. Don't let the government make mistakes like this. That's why we're criticizing you. This government should not blindly follow the EU in such cases as the imposition of sanctions on Belarus. Belarus is potentially for us, and for this company that will be here, Mr. Minister, for Al Dahra, an extremely good market. Another criticism, Mr. Minister, concerns the part of the SAA regarding agriculture. We'll have investors in the UAE countries who will invest here in agriculture, by their estimates, from $500 million to 700 million. Full liberalisation of EU agricultural imports begins on January 1st 2014. In the SAA there is a member, I think it is 23, which allows the Republic of Serbia to seek moratorium at the application of this liberalisation. In all European countries, i.e. in all EU countries, full liberalisation of imports of agricultural products began a year, two or three before EU entry. To achieve all these plans that we are against, and against Serbia's entry into the EU, but even though these plans are coming true, Serbia has no chance of entering the next 10-15 years. Do not allow the full liberalisation of the market because it will destroy domestic agriculture and cause damage. It is not correct that those who invest here 500, 600, 700m euros in the first stage, knowing the Arabs, and I know them for 20 years as they work in other countries, I have worked with them, they are very serious, especially those from the Emirates, and this can also result in several billion investments. Let us enable these people, both those companies and the people who will work here in Serbia in these companies, not to have unfair competition from the EU, even if we are in the same conditions as other countries that have liberalised the market, I will repeat, a year, two or three before joining the EU. It's a big deal coming from big investors. Big investors, we agree they should and we will always insist on small and medium-sized enterprises and every investment, and 100,000 euros is a great investment. Whoever comes with a million euros is welcome. In particular, we need to make sure that we have very important big investments, because they can make big investments in new technological development, new infrastructure development, and irrigation and disposal is one of the key topics not only for Vojvodina, but for all Serbia. The arrival of large systems brings us new technological developments, and all can benefit from that. I think there's a lot of work to be done to make it happen with foreign partners to arrange for the development of the processing industry. Try talking about processing in some subsequent period, not only primary production but also processing. Processing is what Serbia needs. Processing and processing facilities, especially food products. In the end, I'd just like to say that I'm looking forward to it, and this contract is good if all of this that you've planned for the military industry is realized, because we have exceptional military potential, and for the IT industry, because we have, I'll repeat and repeat it over and over again for five years to you, the exceptional experts and the UIT industry. Once again, to conclude, we have been pushing for political neutrality for years, we insist on it, and these contracts are evidence that Serbia can attract investment, that it can develop economically, technologically, even though it is not an EU member. I think there should be as many contracts as possible in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13246	Thank you. Time at the disposal of the president, or representative of the parliamentary group, used. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13247	At first, I would like to say immediately that the SPS will support all these agreements and arrangements provided for in this agenda when it comes to an agreement with the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait and the Russian Federation. I must immediately say that when it comes to this first agreement, the minister said it was personal relations. I think personal relationships are important and we often have a negative relationship with personal relationships especially when they're in the public interest. What's different than personal relationships that give once a big impulse to speed up this project. Why am I saying this? Because we also have a Russian loan that has been in the government for three years, between the Russian Federation and Serbia, and is finally in front of parliament today. If I'm not mistaken, when it comes to talking to the United Arab Emirates, it's less than three months. Since the prince's arrival, it's been less than three months. I want to immediately commend this expeditionivity from the beginning of the talks to the implementation of all those procedures that were necessary in the government and parliament to move quickly towards the implementation of these agreements with the United Arab Emirates. There's been a lot of words here about agriculture, what it brings, what it takes, who it's going to bring to whom, and even that remark that it's better that it went to the tender. They'd support it. Unfortunately, we did most of the privatisations through the tender and most of them failed. It's much more important when you know who you're talking to and when you reach the state's interest in this project than when you don't know who's going to show up at some job and at the start price achieve some effect, and in the end nothing. When it comes to realisation, in some of these combinations I've been and I know what they're in, I know what they're in today's financial situation, even with that famous sentence that they're in restructuring, so they don't owe anyone anything, or rather they don't carry out their previous obligations. We know how many workers were before they entered the restructuring, and how much today, and how much production was before and how much today. All these companies are objectively in a difficult position. If the status of restructuring was lifted, they should repay some previous debts and all go bankrupt without a dilemma. But I see here another chance not only by putting these 14,000 acres into operation. These 14,000 hectares, I am deeply convinced and I share the optimism of Minister Dinkic, who is not an optimist, should not even work, because he should not suggest it if he does not believe that he will be extremely successful, will be deeply believed not only when it comes to the price of rent, but also about investing in agricultural production itself, that it should be seen fields, to show in fact what land is in Serbia, what agriculture in Serbia when it comes to certain crops, which are produced here, can bring. I think they should be an incentive for other combineds and households to achieve the effect that will be achieved in these fields. I deeply believe with these figures that are intended to be invested in these parcels that this will be achieved in one or three years and that we will talk here. Besides, to be honest, we're all talking about whether to give enough in agriculture or not, but in order for one hectare to be brought into service, irrigating and draining, creating a good so far in that space, at least 50,000 acres should be brought in for purpose, so when we calculate this amount then we'll figure out how much it takes to invest. The dead agricultural cooperatives used to be centres for the purchase of agricultural products. In Serbia, we get one place or a serious company that will buy other agricultural products in Serbia, thus exporting from our country to the Emirates. I would say that the same or perhaps even more important when it comes to defending this agreement or when it comes to investing in the development of weapons in Serbia. Serbia is still exporting a lot of weapons today. We were one of the countries that exported high-tech weapons to that space in that part of the world, if I may say so, that I don't list all the countries. I think that should actually boost the scientific potential in this area and preserve at least the number of engineers who have worked on these projects, and we should open up a space for training new engineers. Therefore, the SPS deeply believes that these few agreements with the Emirates can open one serious chance for Serbia's development. When it comes to Russian credit and Kuwaiti, a 25m-euro Kuwaiti loan, or 10m dinars, depends on how big it will be, it solves a few things. Just to remind you that Prokop began to be built in 1977. For more than 35 years, we've been in fact in the construction phase of Prokop. He's partly used. When I say that it is partly used, its function is the most related to the "BG Train" and "Beovoz" and it is not a small function. Currently a day passes through Prokop, i.e. in the last year, about 15 million passengers passed through the left and right sides of the Pančeva Bridge to Batajnica and back on that part of the railway. That's what the potential of all these tunnels that were built in Belgrade is. It is more than 10km of underground railway in Belgrade or 20km of railway. If a 20km subway opened tomorrow, we'd all look forward to it. This is some kind of subway. With this 25 million next to these four tracks that exist right now, there will be four more of the 10 planned. The first and the second don't end with this loan. This loan provides all the materials necessary for the operation, track and thresholds, all that is necessary for the first and second track. In conversations with the Kuwait Development Fund, it is clear that they are ready for a second phase that is approximately somewhere in this amount. It is necessary to complete the entire plate up to the 105 quota that opens the space for building the first and second tracks. This would literally complete the dig under the 105 quota. Now let me say when it comes to that famous 105 quota in the materials, it says 37,000 railway stations or better to say space. It's a 1977 project. Nobody mentions that anymore. In the end, the project was put in an ad act. How many squares will be on that board depends on the investor, the kind of investor we talked about just before when it comes to the Emirates, when it comes to the General Staff and stuff like that. Whether it's 120 or 150 or 180 thousand square meters, as far as possible on a five-hectare board above the 105-square quota above the Prokop railway station, it's an investor thing, the city thing. The city of Belgrade should benefit the most, and thus the Republic of Serbia. Whether it's a shopping center, a tunnel or something, it's already a matter of the Republic and the city getting to a serious investor. This would complete the section of the railway station along the access routes necessary for this. Let me just say that to finish the Prokop needs an extra investment, not a very big one, and that's what it is. the technical and passenger station Zemun, i.e. The completion of the Zemun technical and passenger station, of 29m euros, opens a space for a Europolist, Belgrade's descent to the Sava, calls whatever you want, some call it the Sava amphitheater, is of the least importance. An area of 87 hectares apart from the Sava itself in downtown Belgrade for the construction of a serious part of the city is opening. Why is that necessary? In order for the technical preparation of the train to be carried out in order to take care of the trains for departure. Those who go from Prokop in the morning, when this part of the job is done, they come from Zemun Technical and Passenger Station. Now there is a part that is a section for the BG train in Zemun relating to the technical preparation of trains and clearly says that through the "Prokop", if these projects were to be completed, I am deeply convinced, and this is also about the Russian loan, when it comes to Pancev, the construction of the second Panceva bridge – Pancevo from the Russian loan, so that in a few years we can say that more than 30-40 million passengers have passed, which would solve Belgrade's ecology, solve Belgrade's pollution, disbursed Belgrade's large number of buses. If we, just to make a comparison, before a contract was signed with Belgrade on the introduction of BG trains, 105 departures a day, if in 2009 we had in Belgrade with Beovoz a total of three million transported passengers, now almost 15 million. It says that perseverance and frequency, a good railroad, a good train will bring people back and bring them back as best, as the most comfortable and cheapest means of transport. Of course, in order for this BG train to go to Pancheva, it is necessary for Panchevo to accept what Belgrade is, and what will come from the new railway law, mandatory public transport when it comes to... (don't get it). That is why it is clear, and not only when it comes to the arrangement, the railway needs for the completion of this project, but it is about the price of the loan, the terms of the loan, and the Kuwaiti, and this credit from the Emirates are extremely important. As far as the Russian loan is concerned, we have been talking for three years, Serbian citizens are asking – there is an agreement signed, the agreement has been agreed on the realisation of the Russian loan of this $800m, not the euro. A hundred million of those 800 million are scheduled for the purchase of diesel motor trains. Given that a previous tender has provided 12 diesels of motor trains from the Russian company on the euro film loan, it is clear that it is now welcome, as the same trains will now be intended for those relations on the lines of Serbia that are not electrified, unfortunately a significant number of railways in Serbia is not electrified. The other 700 million is intended, i.e. 52 million dollars is intended for the second track and reconstruction of the descending Pančeva Bridge – Pančevo. For these six shares, 111km Belgrade – Nis. Now let me say one piece of information that I heard here on another question, which is that last year it was introduced to 400 kilometers of light driving. That's technically true, but at the same time in the second sentence, it says 395 km of light driving has been lifted. When you introduce a 10km light ride, it's a preventive thing, because at any time the technical service determines that it can't go any faster, but also on the second section of the rail section, it has to be taken care of. It's not like every year we add up how many miles it's going to be, and we don't add up what's been lifted. Then it turns out that no trains on any railroad can, there is no more railroad. Of course, Belgrade-Bar, a projected Belgrade-Bar track at the projected speed of the train should go from Belgrade to Bar six hours and 42 minutes. He's currently at the current speed of the train, not the speed of the train, traveling over 13.5 hours. So 13.5 hours is his current driving order because of the essence of the railroad. That is why both railways, Corridor 10, Corridor 11, Belgrade-Bar, are extremely important in order to make this loan a reconstruction. Both lines have been electrified, given that last week a contract was signed on the EBRD loan for the purchase of 21 electric trains, which should in fact be moving on these tracks. This provides conditions that railways can take one step more seriously in the next three, four, five years. When it comes to this dilemma, which often appears here, Valjevo-Passica or Paz-Novi Sad. Both tracks are necessary. Valjevo-Lornica is built before every war. She's of course needed. It is necessary for Serbia to finish Corridor 10 as soon as possible, but to be completely honest today if we had the funds at our disposal Serbia could not or would not be able to work on the Paz-Novi Sad railway, as the general project was not completed. It is not finished even in some technical elements, when it comes to whether a municipality can ultimately stop such capital facilities, whether it will go over the Sremski Karlovci or go tunnel and so on. I think it should be a state project, not a matter of a local self-government that delays the completion of this project of building the Paz-Novi Sad railroad. We will be given the latest EU-based bridge, and we will not be in a position to complete the Paz-Novi Sad project because of these details. The new track is well moved from the existing track and goes straight through Fruska Gora to Novi Sad. With that railway, Belgrade and Novi Sad will be 35 minutes away or more precisely as it is now traveling from Batajnica to the Pančeva Bridge, which is 35 minutes on the stake. I am absolutely certain, even if this loan is going or if this loan remains, as they would say in the government, it defines Valjevo-Loznica, that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is interested in this railway, Pazova-Novi Sad. It is important that Serbia secure funds and address issues when it comes to the Paz-Novi Sad project, and I deeply believe that it will quickly be in parliament to finish the job. Serbia is very important to complete the project and to complete the railway, reconstruction and construction of the new Subotica-Belgrade-Nish railway because it is parallel to Corridor 4 via Romania and Bulgaria, so that Serbia does not make cargo traffic, and passenger traffic is bypassed when it comes to the most important route, which is Turkey, Europe. The largest quantity of goods from Europe is heading towards Turkey, towards ports in Turkey and Turkey towards Europe. That's why Corridor 10 is important, and it's always mentioned as if the railways don't drive the goods. Compared to last year, 20% in January is more transportation of cargo transport than last year, and that is what Mr. Minister Optimist supports, because that is how only the minister can and can function and that he says there will be an increase in gross national income. It immediately reflects the transport on the railways. If Sartide stops, it's 18% less rail transport. If Sartide or Jellyzar are working in Smederev, it's 18% higher income. When the flag started, it was over 20% higher rail revenue. Therefore, railways always drive 50% of what is produced in Serbia. She'll always do it. The reduction in transport means there was a decrease in production. That is why the SPS is behind these laws and agreements in this package, because we deeply believe that this is a serious developmental opportunity for Serbia, and especially that attitude that we are not ideologically blinded to seek funding in one place, even if they are not there, but where there are: Turkey, Russia, China. I know, I listened to what was said in this House about our co-operation, before 2000, with China, but after... It's actually a lie, not what we've heard before, and then we see that whoever has the means places and asks for his interest. I hope that those who place funds here will have their own interest, but above all, Serbia will have an interest. That's why we support these agreements and laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13248	The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, followed by MP Dragan Šormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13249	Dear People's MPs, Minister Dinkic, we have a few agreements ahead that, in their essence and details, if you will, many of them have DS support. I think, in that sense, indeed, there should be no party distinction in this assembly, if through the agreements that you have brought to the Assembly, which you defend, it brings real benefits to our citizens and our economy, which is in a very difficult state. However, what is the fact that there is a certain shadow that exists on some of these agreements, which we, as DS and as citizens in this country, are obliged to point out, alongside the fence, that, therefore, DS is not against foreign investment and is not against investment from the United Arab Emirates, specifically from Al Dahra. However, the facts are as follows. This government, as you well know, has, over a longer period, announced a large number of investments, as you well know, that number of investments remained very low. In fact, citizens should know that foreign investment in the state of Serbia is almost flat zero and that for this reason we have this situation, that one foreign investor, regardless of the reputation that you have elaborated here, regardless of the available capital, is, by the maximum media campaign, an absolute solver of all our problems. And you and we know very well that's not true. Therefore, the fact, respected citizens and respected MPs, is that investment from the United Arab Emirates, unfortunately, is currently the only major foreign investment in the announcement. What's problematic in the agreement itself, I can only say that it's very strange to make an agreement and put aside the situation in which the tender is avoided because sometimes things need to be done at the state level, you know that the previous governments have done so. Sometimes it's important to enter into this kind of arrangement that has the highest state framework, but it's mostly done when it comes to really strategic projects, when it's really important for our economy and for our citizens. We have here, within the framework of this agreement, called the Bill on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between our Government and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. It is essential in Article 3, that co-operation in the area of agriculture, there are taxing lists of fields of action, fields of co-operation, which are, of course, very common. In point 2 of Article 3, it is said – that in order to invest in the development of agricultural production and modernisation of existing agricultural infrastructure, which we all agree is in a very bad state, the Republic of Serbia is ready to offer assets to the leading agricultural company from the United Arab Emirates, proposed by the United Arab Emirates government, in agricultural companies. I know, Mr. Dinkic, that you have experience, if you will, and in considering and dissipating the different agreements this country has concluded in the past, but I'm sure you'll agree that this is quite rare, let me say, an unusual case. Namely, there is no cantar, nor an instrument that allows you to measure which one is the leading company without mentioning which one is specifically involved. What are certainly our other two objections to the text itself, it is that in this text things, as you have now heard, are placed extremely wide. So there are no restrictions, there are no time limits, there are no restrictions in the field of both the value of the business and what is really being negotiated with the Emirates. So, citizens need to know that through this agreement, apriori pro futuro, so for the future, it gives the opportunity to end up in the field of agriculture, what an investor from the United Arab Emirates wants. You'll agree, as an economist and as a man who's been doing this for a long time, that it's a very, very strange thing, to say the least, and that it would be a turn to have at least some fence that could say specifically about which combination, specifically for which land, etc. The second objection, in order not to go too far into detail, is that there is no business plan here that has been given to the Serbian Parliament and the Serbian citizens, so to speak. That's why we don't know, Mr. Dinkic, what happens to the employees at the places Al Dahra is supposed to come and invest her resources, except for the interviews she's doing. We don't know how many acres, we hear 14,000 here, but if I understand my colleagues correctly, you haven't confirmed it. We don't know what their wages will be, how many workers will be protected. I agree that even now the situation is not great in these combinations, but I think it would be right for Serbian citizens to know what the investor will do in the field of social protection and protection of employees. Of course, it's problematic that it was a pre-contract first and after an agreement that confirms it. Of course these provisions are controversial, which I quote. Of course, we expect to hear your answer to the question you gave, not you personally, but given by the SNS, that we, as a state of Serbia, will have a far greater amount of direct foreign investment in Serbia. I remind you that Serbian citizens have heard that 100 billion euros will be invested, ten billion a year. Today's foreign investment, as far as I know, has just announced Al Dahra's 300m or 400m euros. What's all the noise about? What are those media announcements for? Which is why, when it is certain, according to the promises of the ruling coalition, and most of all the SNS, we do not die ten billion a year? My question is -- where's the quick answer office, which I can ask a question, if you can't answer, Minister Dinkic, in ten billion this year? Where is the Er Basha investment announced in the previous campaign? I think it is illogical, Minister, that you are here to be the man who is now defending these agreements, which, in essence, cannot be harmful to the citizens of Serbia, especially if there are certain things that we have pointed out. There are a number of things that were well noticed in the province of Vojvodina, which concern the endangerment of the constitutional rights of citizens. There is also a threat to the right of citizens to property and the right to work and the right to province autonomy and to injured a special regime of goods and special status of goods of public interest, etc., but I will not go into details. It's a constitutional court matter. I just want to know if there was a possibility, given that you are familiar with the negotiations with Al Dahr, that these provisions are a little specific, and not that in the agreement itself, there are no restrictions, in the field of agriculture everything, both left and right and right and right and back, whatever you want? That's the first question. The second question is, where is this business plan? How will the citizens of Serbia and the MPs of the Assembly know what Al Dahra is coming with, what will happen to the employees in particular, what will be their receipts, what social protection, health care and everything else? The only thing we know is that no one can blame us for asking, that there will be an interview with current employees, after which they will decide which of the employees will remain in the workplace. Correct me if I'm wrong. You will agree that Serbian citizens, especially employees, should know what fate awaits them. Of course, if this isn't a land sale, if it's not a lease, then explain to us what this is. So, what category does this legal job signify by agreement? I think, Minister Dinkic, we've heard a lot about a magic wand coming to Serbia to solve all our economic problems. I think that citizens have heard too much about something that has been introduced exclusively through the interpretation of parties in power. We are now asking concrete questions, which I am sure you will answer. What I am also sure is that the great shame of the ruling coalition that has letters is one significant foreign investment, at the moment the Republic of Serbia. That poor government where you were all a member, Mr Dinkic, had over two billion direct foreign investments last year. You know that's true. We are now looking forward, with all due respect to Al Dahra and with all due respect to these agreements, which are essentially acceptable to the DS. I ask you, how is it possible for you Serbian citizens to keep selling the candle deadline and talking from 200 million to 400 million as the business of the century? And the numbers are small, solving problems isn't enough. We don't know that business plan, we don't know what's going to be produced, where they're going to be placed, we're listening to all kinds of charming stories, Mr Dinkic, you know about Lucerca, about exports to Bulgaria and Romania, and I have no idea where I am, about embalming. So, I think it's time for Serbian citizens to know a little bit more details about all this. As far as the defence agreement is concerned, we only have one question, although I think it is, of course, a good agreement for our country, my question is, if we're going to make that "alas missile" do our experts even exist in Serbia that can implement it? Is our defense industry capable of doing such an important job, what would we like to do? So understand this really well-intentioned, because we'd like it to be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13250	Eleven minutes and 15 used since the time of the parliamentary group president. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13251	You say there is no investment in Serbia. If you look at the new government working from August last year, so, five months last year, and that data you're using applies primarily to the mandate of the government that you ran. Let's be realistic here. You know for a fact that your government decided to buy out a piece of OTE in Telecom and that we had a neutralization of what entered the country based on the capital outflow. So, telecommunications companies generally took 500-600m euros out of the country last year. One was based on the purchase of OTE's share, so what went into the statistics is more or less repetitive. But the real effect of this government's work can only be measured this year. Since we've been working since August. If you doubt what I'm saying, look at the Fiata factory in Kragujevac, I was talking about it four years ago, about a billion and 200 million euros was that total investment. What's gonna make people who live in Kragujevac happy, maybe some of whom politics is the main thing, and not the point, but that's not my problem. "Fiat" has hired 2006 workers so far, and this year will employ at least 600 to 1,400 workers. They're opening the third shift, because it's going well to sell this new car abroad, and in that sense, these investments are being realised. The new investments agreed for the government's mandates are the "Geoks" investment in Vranj, which will employ 1,250 people. So, "Geoks" or "Jeoks" as he says it is one of the world's most famous shoe manufacturing companies. Then, "Bos" comes to Belgrade with a proposal to build a new factory in the Caves. The first factory ends now in June, the idea is that, besides her, the second division raises another factory. "Simens" expands its retrogenerator factory in Subotica, it's one of these famous. Tomorrow we open a new factory that will employ 500 people in Jagodina, the factory is finished, it started with a trial production called "Confentional Address", and another Italian company "Vibak" 60m euros is starting to invest, starting in mid-April we also sign the contract in Jagodina. For the first time, one foreign investment will be realised in Cačak. The contract is also due to be signed in April and 25 March in Nis, and we are talking with a large company similar to Bosch, the same from the car industry that is scheduled to employ 2,000 engineers. So, a huge investment related to Nis. So, investments, of course, can't come overnight, can't come true in a short time, and rightly you are that this is the biggest. What we've agreed with the Emirates, because so far, what we've negotiated is getting closer to a billion dollars. Now let me point out some inconsistency in your criticism. You ask why there is no business plan in the interstate agreement, so you personally negotiated an interstate agreement with the Russians about NIS. Is there a business plan in the interstate agreement with the Russian Federation, does any purchase price stand? It's nothing. Because it's not the subject of interstate agreements. The interstate agreement is a roof based on which the government closes concrete contracts and you know it well. But, of course, you want to make a mess. So it's not a business plan in this document, nor was it in any state agreement. A pre-contract signed, as you know, every proposal for a memorandum of understanding is a non-binding legal form. The obligation only becomes when the contract is concluded. It's for the purpose of getting a cooperative orientation. All these things you asked will be specified by contract. The contract is expected to be completed by the end of March of this year, if, of course, the Assembly gives the first legal basis, which is the interstate agreement that is now before you. But of course these key elements of the pre-contract will be incorporated into the final contract and further strengthened. Never do interstate agreements contain such details as the social programme, the business plan issue and everything you've said. What is certain is that in the pre-contract we have already predicted what is common for such transactions that those who want to continue working in these combinations will be interviewed and all those who are capable will be safely detained, because there should be some people working there. But, we have a fact, the case is, several foreign investors, Jura in Raca, Beneton in Nis or "Mura" in Pirot, that people themselves asked to go and not work. They're looking for a social program right now. Instead, young people came instead, because unfortunately because of these 20 years from 1990 to 2010, many workers who worked in these firms in restructuring lost their working habits and are already in retirement and do not want to go to work with these modern technologies. When you get into the Fiat factory, it's all some young guys, engineers who are some new generation. I'm also sorry why this generation, this middle one, can't catch that step with industrial new politics right now, but these are facts. There are people among them who are older, and these are all things from case to case. There's no generalization. Let me explain what this means - the leading company. We're not hiding anything here, we said it was about Al Dahr. Why is she leading? Because her traffic is $800 million, and they're the biggest in the Emirates. So they're literally the biggest company, we published a name, and you can see on all the websites to check her traffic, do business on all continents. So not only in the Middle East, but in complete Asia, Latin America, Spain, so in EU countries. This will be another EU country, or Europe where they will invest. It seems clear to me here, you may have failed to read, this interstate agreement is valid for 10 years with the possibility, if there is mutual interest and will to extend for another ten years. Only state agricultural holdings can be the subject of takeover. They have no limit, so the limit is in number. In addition to the eight that are the subject of co-operation with Al Dahra, there are six more, but we have already agreed with farmers' associations to offer them above all to take over, if they have any interest, some of these remaining combinations, not expecting to pay even the same price as the Emirates could pay, because it is clear that it is disproportionate in purchasing power. They will pay much lower than the Emirates have paid, but we are interested in putting the combined into operation as soon as possible. I speak for those who are not in bankruptcy proceedings and where the courts lead that policy. So there's no possibility that I don't know any non-limited functions here. The state has only six combinations left, and when it comes to land, it's the same treatment as other privatisations. So the property of the combinations, i.e. the ownership of the combinations, is the subject of the transaction. What is a state-owned country, it is not the subject of a transaction, what is a state-owned country will be leased to our duke farmers, because everyone but this in Obrenovac combines, Dragan Markovic, and in part "7. July" which is Surcin, is located in Vojvodina. As far as the lease is concerned, I've been clear here, you may not have heard that, 2,982 acres that owns July 7th from Surcin as part of the PKK will be the subject of the lease and only that, nothing more. Otherwise, the country is state-owned, therefore, not owned by the PKK and no dinar has been paid on behalf of the law or the City of Belgrade or the Republic of Serbia. So these combineds used that land without paying the rent. What was the question of whether Serbia had enough experts. I think the situation is much worse than in the former Yugoslavia, because unfortunately in the last 20 years our education system has not followed the needs of the economy, but we still have good engineers and technicians. It is precisely these investments from the Emirates that need to pull back and change the education system. This means that if, knowing that the former Tito of Yugoslavia was one of the world's 10 largest arms and military equipment manufacturers, we produced and sold so much, they know that we have other experts who can make complex systems. They're interested, first of all, in our brains to give us money to use our brains and make something that's modern and modern. Clearly, we need to increase the number of experts. Investment, potential Attica from Mubadala, related to the semi-conductor factory, needs to be found by thousands of highly sophisticated engineers who are able to make a chip that is a complex product. Do we have enough people here? I don't know, time will show, because they've asked us a bunch of questions, and we've given them back a 200-page study on the state of our university. What's good, the idea of the previous government to create technological parks in Serbia, the stimulation of nano technology was visionary and good and we want to continue what was good. If someone suggested building technology parks in Belgrade, it was made by the Starstar, but there's no content, we have to give content and we plan to do it since June. There's Novi Sad, and these are the two largest centers. Nis and Kragujevac, like big cities, tomorrow and some other cities, that should certainly be supported and that qualified us to get this chip factory. So, for the chip factory, it won't matter the land. We're going to give them free land, because the factory they own in Germany produces four billion dollars a year's worth of chips, not one of our factories before the Fiats produced nearly. The firm will now produce, or export a billion and a half to two billion euros in the current state, depending on the movement of the market. Exports of four billion dollars from one factory raises us one time, not only because of the value of exports, but because in this way the education system has to change, and then the education minister will have to tell parents, enroll people who have talent in technical schools, in technical schools, because they will have a chance to get a job, and teachers will have to adapt the teaching programs needed practice not to teach something they have learned, and now they hate to teach something new, but to adapt to what the needs of businesses are. Investments like this make it possible. So Fiat's investment was the first major investment in the beginning of last decade, and only now has it been effective. It took four years to get what we got. What we're doing now is also not going to be able to see everything overnight, because these investments, especially if they're in a chip-conductor factory, are long-term investments, but it's important that we start. I'll thank all those who support it. It's pointless to ask why there's no business plan in the interstate agreement, because you know it's not an integral part of any state agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13252	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, two minutes of replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13253	Mr. Dinkic, Minister Dinkic, I asked you why there is no business plan, and you said a few things where you missed so much, not just what I said, but the essence of this problem. Please don't speak, your government, because that's Mr Dinkic and your government, since you've been in it and in every government, as far as I've known since 2000. What you also said, and I don't know why you went on the subject of "Fiita," you went on the subject of "Geox", "Simens", "Bosa", praise is worthy of your intention to list all the investments and investors that were invited and whose realization began during the previous government. Thank you for reminding the citizens of Serbia again that these are investments that the previous government in the vast majority, except for those at the end of the list, has agreed. So that's true. Does the NIS agreement have a business plan? No, but there's an agreement that we've been working on in the very purchase of all the elements with annexes regarding both the social programme and all the other things that concern dynamics and the scale of investment. I'm not saying there should be a business plan in the interstate agreement, but I asked you where the business plan is? So if you know ministers, every detail, that's possible, but you don't know either the public or the MPs, and I especially think I'm asking that on their behalf, the people who work there. You can't give an answer by saying, there'll be an interview, so they'll judge who's worth it and who's not worth it. It's a little socially irresponsible. If we all made mistakes in the social field together, related to privatisation in the past, now it would be our turn to try to avoid these mistakes, not wanting to avoid investment, to jeopardize, but good. We think it is normal for you to explain, first of all, to the citizens of Serbia, if you know some details that citizens do not know, which they have not been able to hear in the media by you or Mr. Vukic. There's a lot more to it, but I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13254	People's MP, time's up for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13255	In the end, let me tell you that the pre-contract also said that it was 30 years old, and now you're talking, another restriction. So I'm asking you exactly what's in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13256	The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13257	I've been very clear, the interstate agreement has been valid for 10 years with the possibility of extending to 10 years, for all of these areas, from industry, agriculture, to sports. The issue of land on July 7th from Surcin is 30 years old and is a subsystem within a large one. The pre-contract with Al Dahra is on our website since the signing, and the final contract will also be made available to the entire public at the time when the government confirms it and we sign it, and I hope by the end of this month in the Emirates, and so it will be with each of the following contracts, as the NIS contract had all these elements, the social programme, the business plan in the very contract that the government has set out, so will be with the contracts, with Al Dahra and all other companies that will result from interstate agreements, and there is no difference there, so our legislation requires.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13258	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13259	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers, today Serbia's parliament is dealing with something that we can call life issues and what's important for all citizens of Serbia, and if we say that these are the laws that need to be verified by some international agreements, often neither the public nor the media in Serbia pay that much attention, some others are more interested in politics, although this is something that is very important and important to the citizens of Serbia. It is, as we have heard all afternoon, about two agreements, one with the Russian Federation, and one with Kuwait, which is essentially a ratification of credits that we raise to develop our infrastructure, especially in the area of railway traffic, and four draft laws is something that is a legal framework that we need to do as a state, in order to start much bigger and more significant and in economic terms, which is important for our country and all of our citizens, one much wider and better co-operation with one of the richest states in the world, and these are the United Arab Emirates. I, as an authorised representative of the SNS, will talk briefly about all these proposals, but I will refer most to what we do with the United Arab Emirates. Before that, I will say that we already know a lot about this bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. It's been going on for years. To come to the realization of this $800m loan, a favourable loan, where I remind you, annual interest is 4.1%) for the state of Serbia and we see that it still decides what it will be invested in, whether what was once said or more in Corridor 10, Corridor 11, which are very important to Serbia. I would just like to remind you that in developed countries of Europe, we are seeking to enter the EU, rail traffic and river transport and transport and passengers, but in particular goods are far, far more represented than we are. It's much more used because it's, of course, more profitable and cheaper. We see on the roads and on highways a large number of trucks, and unfortunately because of the economic situation and poor work of the previous government and an increasing number of pickups, which drive little goods to shops, because our citizens, unfortunately, have a little money to buy, and all of these agreements need to be changed. What's interesting, when we talk about friends and who's a bigger friend in the world or a smaller friend in the world, and money doesn't normally have a color and doesn't know a lot of friends, but only interest, and so should we, too, act like a state, especially in the interest of our citizens, will remind you that in the next proposal of the law confirming the Treaty of Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the Kuwaitan Fund for Arab and Economic Development, we have heard that this is a famous railway station Prokop, and that this is our international obligation, means Belgrade 1, that we end it, because it's on the international corridor and that station, the fixed interest rate we get from this Kuwaitian Fund is 3%. So even lower on an annual level than we got from a Russian friend in that previous loan. The maturity period is 18 years. Four years we have a grace period, while the repayment period is 14 years in the 28-year war. What's also very favourable in this loan, namely, the right to borrow is that, i.e. us, to settle early commitments with the consent of the Kuwaiti Fund, without paying a special fee by the borrower. So what we say in terms of citizens taking loans, means, if we get this loan back before time, we don't pay for special foams, interest rates, etc. to that, means one very favourable loan. So far as the state, we have not received such an offer to build a Belgrade 1 train station, so I don't see why anyone who did this would be the opposite of what it means to press a green button, i.e.. "for" and voting for this bill, because it is only good and no one has negotiated something like this for the Serbian Railway and the Serbian state. Now we come to these four draft laws concerning the United Arab Emirates. Before I say anything about these bill proposals, I'm going to say something about the United Arab Emirates. Namely, it's a state consisting of seven emirates. We are best known to Abu Dhabi and Dubai. The good economic situation in that country has attracted, believe it or not, over a million and a half people from India and Pakistan. Today's United Arab Emirates accounts for only 11% of the local Arab population. Fifty-seven percent of the population are residents from southern Asia or the areas of India and Pakistan, as we have said, but also other parts of Asia. There are many Europeans, etc. Imagine what growth is and how it has attracted these countries to people, practically from that continent, but from some other continents, I say, there are Europeans who live and work there, and that is a state that fully works as a state with more faith, with more nations present and that has economic growth that we can all envy, and also some much more famous economic forces that we dream of or say we should co-operate with them. So, one country where peace, stability, political stability is, and of course, then attracts investment and has the opportunity to invest around the world. The economy, of course, is the largest economic potential of oil and natural gas. They're usually the third country to produce oil and natural gas in the Middle East. Only Saudi Arabia and Iran produce more. They also have huge growth in the trade sector, finance, then industry itself, as we have seen before. They also invest a lot in this precise industry, today modern IT technology and tourism. Their economic growth has been over 3% for several years in a row. Some estimate, but it is primarily because of the situation in Syria or Iran, that this year it will have 4– 4.5% growth. In any case, they have a constant growth in industrial production and economic growth. Now, one piece of information we all need to hear, GDP per capita in the United Arab Emirates is 48,158 dollars. That's why they're the seventh in the world. No record of anyone living below the poverty line in recent years. So, what I'm saying is there's only one thing, that this is a very serious state, of course, in that country there are very serious companies and very serious investors. With them, Serbia can only benefit from making this kind of agreement, ratifying these laws and starting to work. I'm convinced we can't have any damage to that. What does one part of the reason for the law, which the government handed over to us, agreement on co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, which is the first law to go, and on the basis of it all these others? In particular, the Parties will encourage safe, economic and trade co-operation and partnership based on equality and mutual benefit, through the conclusion of specific arrangements between competent authorities or legal entities, as well as through the implementation of projects and programmes in the state and private sector. Also, in order to invest in the development of agriculture, production and modernisation of existing agriculture, infrastructure, the Republic of Serbia will offer the leading agricultural company from the United Arab Emirates, which is proposed on the other hand, assets to state-owned agricultural companies, long-term lease of agricultural land or business co-operation under the agreement. Cooperation in agriculture will include financing of irigating infrastructure projects, i.e. investing in the development of the irrigation system, as well as modernising the purchase of the necessary agricultural equipment. I don't see what's here in this agreement and in what's written can be controversial for any of the People's MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'd also like to remind you of one more thing. There were stories about working together in the dedicated industry. I'll remind you, for the last six months of this government's work, the Minister of Defence and the First Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, and when it's mentioned here, and nobody mentions his name, and some personal relations that have contributed to the signing of such agreements, I don't see what would be controversial in that, you see that such a thing can only help. It would be good for us to spread such friendships around the world, and so do we, as MPs, when we travel to various delegations across Europe and the world, to make such friendships and to set a good example for us and in such a way as to help the state of Serbia and to help these people, and to have very influential people around the world and Europe in parliaments, we may also be able to provide, in some way, not such an important agreement, but any job or work for our citizens, bringing and smaller, smaller investors, but in any case, for all of us very important. He visited the Russian, German, English and US defence ministers for the first six months of his work as a new defence minister. Which minister of defense, even in Tito's day, did he do it? Has anyone been allowed these visits? Were there calls? Why is that? Because obviously, we as a state now have something to offer to others in cooperation with such a minister and vice-president of the government. Surely you would not visit such four important countries on such short notice that it is not a matter of great interest to all and the desire for Serbia to integrate and integrate into the whole world, as well as the EU. Of course, the people in the Emirates and the business people recognized something like that. Such a thing can only cause stability in us, and politics can cause political instability and then investors in such a country do not come. Then we ask why there are fewer. Because there's less money around the world, and then investors, of course, are looking where it's more stable to invest that money. The long-term lease of agricultural land here was talked about, I heard and sold land, as some big problem, suspicions, as the damage that is done to the duchy paors, etc., was not offered to them, and we heard it was eight failed combinations. It's not even all the land that's being leased here, it's got one smaller part that's being leased. For most of it, under the Privatisation Act, it is about buying the company's assets. I'll tell you one example, especially the way we think a lot. I think it's about politics. The United Arab Emirates, as we've heard, most export oil, natural gas. Have you wondered what the companies are that exploit their oil? Mostly American. I had a chance to be in Azerbaijan twice. I was even a guest of a large British Petroleum refinery that cost a billion and a half euros to be made. Azerbaijan is a country that will also invest with us and we hope to soon have these agreements here. British Petroleum was given 70% of their exploitation findings, 10% of Lukoil's Russian. Their company exploited 20%. One hundred percent of the gas-exploitation "Gaspromneft". That's what I talked to the President of the Azerbaijani Parliament about. It's their biggest natural resource, such as our agricultural land, our greatest natural resource. We don't have any bigger than that farm land. So it was not disputed to sell to Hungarian companies, Croatian companies the country. Now all of a sudden, the problem is if she's gonna come to Emir's and she's wondering if she's got a business plan. Of course there will be. Did anyone ask the business plan question Darko Saric when he was buying these combinations that were stabbed afterwards? Did anyone ask him if he was going to plant mac or cannabis in those fields and why did your combinations fall apart? Much better this way of negotiating than what was once done. It will be an effect for the state of Serbia. No one has expressed any doubt as to why this is the case for the justification of co-operation in the area of IT technology or co-operation with JAT or the construction of the port or in the area of tourism, but only for agricultural land. I think it's about someone wanting to protect those who have done it so far, because I think they're afraid of competition, and it's not market business and it's not something we stand for. I guess we're in favour of competition and agricultural production. I think that someone who now works in Vojvodina and, as we heard, has a three-time lower yield per hectare than Croatia or 30 times smaller than the Netherlands, is just afraid that on that small area of 14,000 hectares, if I understand the minister, someone will do a lot more than they do, so that it will prove that this was both justifiable and that in such a way everyone in Serbia should work. I think it's fear, not fear for the duchess. I think it's fear and that someone is afraid that they will be threatened on this market in a way of operating and exporting later on from Serbia, and we want to be part of the EU. They don't mind such investments. In the EU, we would be delighted to see Al Dahra come to any country, welcome them with open arms, and we are asking the question and as we are protecting our pairs. Our couples need to know that such a company should come. With it will come canals and irrigation and technology and all of them will be better. No one's gonna take their land, no one's gonna pack up those new JAT planes and take them to the Emirates. She'll be here. She's our country. This is where she'll be processed. They'll process it, our patrons. They will co-operate with the company and they will make a lot more money than they earn today when they work with those who, somebody used the term tycoons etc., bought a lot of countries in Vojvodina and have the lowest yield per hectare in Europe. We are obliged to do everything possible to make our citizens much better, and the duchess of the duchy among our citizens. I say this is the reason, and let them think whether I'm right or wrong. Let them choose who they trust. I see that Alexander Vukic's trust is 80%, and I am convinced that he will be more trusted when this cooperation is made than those who criticise such agreements. Serbian citizens should be calm. This will be one of the best jobs in Serbia. I'd like something like that to be experienced by the Smederev Ironworks. So far, this is not happening, but I would like something like this to happen and to find such serious investors and many other factories, projects, and other parts of Serbia, because we are not talking about fruit being exported from the forest region, from the Danube region, from eastern Serbia. It's something to pay attention to and work on. These areas are empty with the population and therefore the SNS will support all these six draft laws, vote for them and all other projects that help Serbia develop and thus make the EU part of it more competitive with a stronger economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13260	Since there are no more registered presidents, or representatives of MPs' groups, we are moving to the section of the session where the words have been given by MPs, and according to the application for a word in writing, pursuant to Article 96(4). Reports were filed by members of the parliamentary group: Unity Serbia, the Liberal Democratic Party, the United Regions of Serbia, the Democratic Party of Serbia, the Serbian Progressive Party and the Democratic Party. First reported is MP Djordje Kosanic, followed by MP Zoran Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13261	Dear Ministers, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a debate on six draft laws. I will immediately say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support all these bill proposals. My predecessors, honourable MPs, mostly talked about the bill's proposals, i.e. Agreements with the United Arab Emirates, also on a loan with the Russian Federation, so that my presentation today will focus on the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the Kuwaitian Fund for Arab Development. In particular, the project of the railway station Prokop. At the very beginning, it should be said why a project of building a Belgrade railway node is important. On the one hand, that's certainly important because of the acceleration of the trains on Corridor 10. Probably this $800 million loan will mean a railroad reconstruction, and I'll also remind you that the average speed on our tracks at this point is only 42 kilometers. On the other hand, this project is certainly of priority for the development of railway infrastructure in the Republic of Serbia. By signing these contracts, we'll get on one side a loan of 10 million Kuwaiti dinars. Someone just said if it was 25 million euros, or 27, but surely a significant investment, and we just talked about whether this is a favourable loan? Is it, or isn't it? Gentlemen, when you get a loan that has a fixed interest rate of 3%, when it's 18 years and a grace period of four years, we can definitely say it's a very, very favourable loan. What's only possible at this point a little falls into the eyes is the fact that the contract, signed, is written in Arabic. It is common from an international and legal point of view that contracts of this kind are written either in English or written in the languages of the Contracting Party. But there's an excuse. I have to say, we're not the only ones who signed a contract like this. Even 82 non-speaking countries signed these contracts, and we only had one privilege here, that the work version was written in English. I must say in 2012 Serbia is next to Ukraine the only country that has received a credit arrangement regarding the European Community, i.e. European countries. Of course, I haven't heard much about the Kuwait Investment Fund today, so I really need to say a few things about what kind of institution this is. To say that so far in as many as 102 countries have given hundreds of favourable loans and the number that is present there is as much as $15 billion. Of course, this fund is the seventh-largest global fund I'll just tell you that the estimate in 2011 was that this fund, in fact its property is 210 billion dollars. One more thing that goes in favor of all of this is the fact that this fund is run by the Kuwaitian General Reserve Fund and the Kuwaitian Fund of Future Generations. The Kuwaiti Fund of Future Generations is one of the main funds in which oil revenues and gas revenues merge, and certainly all accounts are paid from that fund. It's just, what kind of fund it's all about, and it's just about that loan. Coming back to the Prokop train station, to say that the construction of this project began in 1977. Even some data say in 1976. But, well, let's get official information that it's 1977. The project was implemented very briefly in the beginning. Construction continued in the 1990s and then stopped in 2000. At this point, I'm also going to provide some information that may be interesting, and I haven't heard it in previous exhibitions. In 2012, between 12 million and 15 million passengers passed through the Prokop station, which now operates with only four August. On a daily basis we have 105 departures of the Belgrade train at the Pančeva Bridge – Batajnica and Batajnica – Pančeva Bridge and 30 walkways Beovoz on the Pančevo-Pazova-Pazova-Pančevo route. With these 25 million loans, which we will undoubtedly get, we are solving four more August and what's important, I think that at that moment the Prokop station will not only be a passing station, but it will also be a station where trains can go. It's one of the important data. We'll have, no more four Augusts, we'll have eight and in the next period we'll have to do another August 1st and 2, and of course infrastructure. What is also very important to me here, the original project, which was made in 1977, was projected to have 37,000 square meters. Of course, the data from those years that all the space was actually supposed to be the station, cell space. That's probably unimaginable for today. That project was put in an ad act and we don't have a new project yet, but I'll tell you one interesting thing. At an angle of 105, located above the station, which is 5 hectares of even, the general urban plan envisions that 130,000 square meters can be built. In a conversation with some of the more dedicated people who deal with this problem, I was informed that as much as 180,000 square meters can be built in the area. Imagine what kind of space can be created in that part of town and what an investment it is for a future investor to invest there. Whether it's gonna be a mall, or maybe some hotel, or whatever, but in that part of town, it's definitely an interesting investment. Of course, another perspective opens that at the site of the current railway station, once it is removed, a space of 86 hectares will be created. Eighty-six hectares of space is that, at this point in time for Belgrade, I am not a Belgrademan, I come from Kragujevac, but probably for the first time Belgrade is going to Sava. One, as some said, I'll quote, city in town. The only question is what will be built there and how it could be an investment for a future investor. We're coming up with something that's very important for Unique Serbia. The signing of such agreements as an agreement with Kuwait, or excellent agreements with the United Arab Emirates, creates conditions that not only in one branch, but in many branches, we sign good contracts that will be good for the citizens of Serbia. Of course, without a doubt, the Unique Serbia supports it. As far as Kuwait is concerned, I'll just tell you one thing. And for Serbian frameworks at the moment, the contract is, i.e. The foreign trade exchange is very, very modest. I'll tell you, it's only a few million dollars. I'll just remind you, starting with the fact, we haven't heard that before, so it might be interesting to say that Kuwait is a highly developed country, the fifth richest country in the world, with a gross social product of 177 billion dollars, with 10% of the world's oil reserves, and on the other hand, what might be most interesting to us, they don't have agricultural production. Only rely on fishing and retail imports, even 85% of water or distill, or imports from abroad. This is certainly one good piece of information that as far as they're concerned, we can make a contract like this with the United Arab Emirates. Every other contract with other countries is welcome. At the very end, let me say that in the day of the vote, the United Serbia parliamentary group will support how this bill I talked to Kuwait and the other draft laws in this united debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13262	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13263	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, except for those who want isolated Serbia and others who want a better life for our children know that there are no jobs here without foreign investment. Money doesn't smell, some money has political requirements and conditions, but it certainly isn't money from the United Arab Emirates. What harms happiness when it comes to an interstate agreement with the Emirates? Two things. The first is trust. Mr Dinkic knows that for the 10 or 12 years he has been in power, only Rasim Ljajic has spoken more than he has, several times or more times, things that have not been realized. I choose my words very carefully. I'm not going to repeat everything that's suffering from this qualification, and that's the first thing that's our problem. Trust. We hear stories about trucks, airplanes, hundreds of millions of dollars, God forbid they're true, but that trust is one dumpling in a man's throat that can't be fooled another time. The other thing that has to do with trust when it connects is a serious problem with this contract, and that's the way. Mr. Minister told his counterpart Stefanovic about NIS and how it happened with NIS. That's right. I remember that Mr Dinkic, also Minister of Government at the time, was against the beginning of the agreement, with the right, as we were against. Why? Well, because we said that that's not how the NIS market price can be determined, that it's a direct contract, that it's illegal and that we don't know whether it's adequate, let's say, 800 million, because ultimately 51% was won by 400 million. Is it worth 700 pumps, two refineries, a gas warehouse, all the wells and all the oil in the country? That's about what was won by that energy deal with Gazprom, that is, Russia. Those arguments that we shared with Dinkic at the time, we constantly, he at one point, apply now. This is the same way NIS was privatized, so we're selling, if I understand correctly, there's something going on here about these thousands of acres. Mr. Angelkovic mentioned 14,000 acres. If I add rightly here, nearly 10,000 hectares are sold and about 6,600 hectares are leased, with absolutely no idea what's going on with Samorovic and what business-technical co-operation is for 30 years, what's that price? So it's okay that the interstate agreement can't get into details. We'll see the details. But these two things, I say, are bad luck. On the other hand, the fact that this is the second time that something that, I say, is certainly rightly infuriating the Duchess. And that first deal applied in some way, first of all, to what is in Vojvodina and this second interstate agreement, which will give the party 10,000 hectares in ownership and this rest in lease, also in Vojvodina. You will admit that what is not good for Vojvodina cannot be good for Serbia, because Vojvodina is Serbia. It's just that we have to understand that people in Vojvodina are looking at it differently and I understand them. We need to understand that the population is increasing. Now let me talk about why food is a strategic product, I don't have that kind of time, I only have 13 minutes, and I'm not the only one talking, but the fact that agricultural land is a limited resource. It's much more important than, say, frequencies, and remember how we argued over those frequencies. Now there's gonna be digitization, so there's as many as you want, but with the ground, it's not like that. Slovenia has agreed to allow foreigners to buy land only before entering the EU, so has Croatia. We do it not in an unlawful way, but essentially, now the law does not allow it, and that is why this interstate agreement is, because it is above the Constitution, so the Constitutional Court told us, when we tried to challenge that interstate agreement at the Constitutional Court. We think it's a little early. I'm not saying you don't need to pull foreign capital. I'm not saying it won't be any of this. I'm just being skeptical, I can't trust something like this because of my previous experience, and also because of the fact that a limited resource, such as the country, agricultural land, is still incinerated. I think it's irresponsible to future generations that, after all, many of this country's debts will have to be paid back. That's why I'm only going to do a few sentences about the loan and the Russian and Kuwaiti. You know that the Fiscal Council today said that the deficit this year will certainly exceed the budget projection. You know that there is no reduction in the country's debt without reducing deficits, and the deficit will be greater than 4.5%. God forbid it's 5% to 5.5%, and possibly bigger, that's what trends show from two years ago. Trains new, on tracks where trains reach such ridiculous speeds of 35, 40 kilometers, we know it's not because they're bad trains, but because they're bad tracks. That part of the Russian loan that's going to go into railroad reconstruction, that's not controversial. This for a 100m-euro train, for those twenty trains, will remind you that the current director of the Railways signed a contract with the Swiss. It's also another loan for 20 trains. It's simple, I think that a kickout, with an increased deficit and a public debt like this, can objectively turn out to be irresponsible because we have to start saving. Anyway, those are some kind of objections I can make in these seven and a half minutes. I wish I had more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13264	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13265	As for confidence, many did not have confidence that Fiat would ever make the failure of the flag the most profitable factory and the largest exporter in Serbia, so it happened. There was no trust in that. As for trust, for ten years, Mobtel was 51% privately owned, and 49% in state, and eventually the state received, one billion and a half euros, a total transaction. No one believed something like that would happen. Not to mention, a lot of people were saying that we were going to have a Sunday 2004 through 2006. In public finances we had the only time in history to budget surplus. The fiscal council has been a little hasty today with the grades, as they only looked at the state of the republican budget. So far, the IMF and the Fiscal Council have seen not only Republic but also so-called. a consolidated budget account, including a pension fund and a health fund and local self-government and a province. Unfortunately, these figures are late, and have shown in January that the deficit of the republican budget was seven billion, but that's why the surplus in the other accounts was as much as 11 billion, so the total consolidated account in plus 3.8. The deficit of the Republic budget in February is always the biggest, because February is the shortest month and the smallest income, plus, this February we did something that wasn't planned – we started to return VAT to businesses for 30 days to pump up liquidity and we released the new VAT law, i.e. changes to the Small Business Act that they don't have to pay VAT every month, but to pay for three months. That just happened in February. That February was slightly worse for republican incomes. We held to strict cost projections, but the Fiscal Council did not consider the increase in the payment of contributions to pension system health and property tax, which will end up repairing that February result. There's no way the deficit will go over this 5% or whatever. Next, we projected it at 3.6, I'm talking about the Consolidated. There may be an absurdity that the consolidated deficit this year is lower than the republican deficit, which has never been the case before, but it's always seen only the budget in general, or deficit in general. It's not the state of Serbia just the Republic. It's the cities, it's the funds. We have to look at her whole. It's too early to give that grade. It's safe to say that caution is out of the question. I've been paying attention to some of the proposals they make for structural reforms. We certainly have to do more to bring down the public debt. Today, I suggested to the government that we pay off $430 million prematurely, a debt of around 7% almost interest, because we were able to reach an interest rate of 4.7 on Eurobonds in February. That money we took is now going to be used to get back more expensive loans, and by doing that, we're going to take down the interest costs. To get back to these contracts. I'm sure borrowing under favourable conditions on a long-term basis, if it's invested in infrastructure, is good. The problem with Serbia is that it has not shown its ability to use these infrastructure projects properly until the end, because we have always been bad at organising the implementation of these contracts. There weren't enough projects, there wasn't a good job organization, and the Railway would have to do everything in this new structure right now to get all those credits that were agreed to benefit. That's our problem. We have a lot of untapped loans to different creditors. We need to turn that up. You say it bothers you the way you do. I wasn't protesting the NIS, I was protesting the price. The price was then five or six times lower than the market price, and here the price is almost double the market price. So if the price was right for NIS, I wouldn't be protesting for form. I'm falling into those people who are more important than form. The problem was that the agreed price was bad at the time, it was not agreed by a state agreement but by a contract. Here we have already said in advance what the price will be and whoever wants to say the price is bad, let these six combinations offer 12,000 euros or 10,000 euros per hectare, I would be very surprised. Whoever. Is that, as some of the other parties have said, I don't know, Nestle or one of the domestic farmers -- to see who can and who can pay as much price as the Emirates will pay. Besides, we'll have this spring and summer tenders for the other six combinations, so I'll let you know what prices have been made. I wish we could get a price like this. As far as limited land resources are concerned, that's true. The fact is that they will process our land and that our people will work there, that Serbia will have export revenues, that it is only 14,000 hectares compared to the two million hectares there are in Vojvodina, really speaks of no one wearing it. That's impossible. It's impossible to get the land out of the country. It's possible to bring things out, but if something's impossible, it's land. The property that's usually in that combination, it's all old. It's 20-30 years old. No new silos. There's a little bit of start-up irrigation investment, but that's all very little compared to this. They'll all have to invest again. The ones in the desert are making tomatoes. They're watering tomatoes in the desert. I saw that with my own eyes. Along the highway from Dubai to Abu Dhabi you have those tubes like on flower terraces, they water it in miles. So they use water from the sea. Real desalinisation and seawater make water for irrigation. To them, a liter of water is more expensive than a liter of oil. Of course, the strategy, as some MPs have observed, is to try to give them what nature has given them, and it has given them oil, to use and to provide food security for the future, and on the other hand, to invest in high technologies. So they're doing something that I think is smart and that we should do, too. On the one hand, food natural resources, on the other hand, high-tech knowledge. It's a win-win combination. I wasn't too optimistic, because Mr. Vukic has so far contracted military contracts worth 220 million dollars. It's signed. A total of 25 projects from defence industry are under consideration. What's signed is only part of what's being considered. The important thing is that there will be work for our engineers. Also, what we've been saying so far is a start. Time will show, as it has shown for "Fiat," whether it will come true or not. Of course, everyone has the right to trust and mistrust. I'm going to try, along with my government colleagues, because this is a team project and it's not an individual, to prove that this is something that's one of the better moves. I must admit there was an idea before to make better co-operation with the Emirates, with Kuwait, with Saudi Arabia, with Qatar. Qatar is also a very interesting country and we will try to cooperate with them, but so far no one has done it. You'll give us a chance. You don't have to wait long to see the first effects of these contracts.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13266	Thank you. Neven Florist, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13267	I appreciate the words. Article 107. Rules of Procedure. It is an offensive expression by Mr. Ostojić. I really don't think it's delicious to measure how much... (President: Don't speak directly to Mr. Ostojić. You're advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure to me. I really don't think it's delicious, no matter what MP of the National Assembly of Serbia is concerned, that this is where you measure as much as anyone in power. I think the only thing we need to measure is the result of those in power. I really think that Rasim Ljajic is one of the few leaders in Serbia who has, indeed, been in power for a long time, that I do not deny it, and for whom, throughout his participation in power, no affair, any dishonest procedure is involved. I don't think it's a delicious approach where we're going to respect each other for what someone's taking part in, and on the other hand, someone's playing the eternal opposition, sitting down, criticizing. I think that today in Serbia, in fact, the main problem is that some people do not want to take responsibility and that we have many unstructured criticisms. To get back on the subject and the reason I answered. I believe that in any discussion, MPs should speak their political position on the problem and participate in the discussion of the law. In all this, not falling into any cheap demagogy, type demagogue -- all the same in power, because the minister has such and such. The fact is, there are MPs like this and like that. Personally for me, as a member of the SDPS, it is not pleasant to use a very mild expression when it is respected that someone is eternally in power, as it can be very easy to defend. So someone is an eternal opposition, criticizing, and refusing to take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13268	Time, Mr. Florist. I don't think it's an injured member of 107. The Rules of Procedure, because Mr Ostojic expressed his political position in his discussion. He, as a representative of the opposition, can, in my opinion, really criticise the government. In particular, he did not take offense to Minister Ljajic, whom you mentioned. If you want, can we make a statement in the voting day? No, I don't. Thank you. Mr. Ostojic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13269	In politics, success has been measured for years in the survival of power. When I told Mr Dinkic that he had been in power for a long time, and Rasim Ljajic only longer than he did, it has no court value, it is a fact. For someone, it may be an unacceptable fact. In some other professions, for example, in politics -- how much government you were, what kind of country, how people live, that's the success of politicians. There are other criteria – how many Governments have you been in? There are other professions, for example, how many clients you have, thus measuring success. But I wouldn't go back to that. Mr. Dinkic, the way the price depends. The price for NIS has been achieved as it is, due to the way of the direct contract. If there was a tender, like for Telenor, then you'd see what the price is. That's all I said here. For "Telenor" you got, because it wasn't a direct contract, it was because it was a tender. I just said here, just like for NIS, you don't know what the market price is and you can't know. Play the local latifundists, if anyone offers more – well, it was not expected for NIS to buy some homemade tycoon. It's simple, of course. When I say tender, I don't mean UAE gentlemen, along with those who have land. No, I meant more serious companies. You'll admit that in agriculture in Europe, there are serious firms that might have come forward. It was just my remark in a way, because the way it sets the price. We have that price in Serbia and no one can overcome it, it's not controversial, but objectively, maybe someone can. As far as the Fiat is concerned, there's a strange trait. You're saying this Russian contract is a deal from the previous government, and this one's only realising it. It would be more accurate -- this Russian contract is the previous government where I was, and this one where I also realized it. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Stay. That's why I'm saying "Fiat" was the same thing, I guess, collectively. Not just yours, but the former president who went there. Play "Fiat," I thought... (Chairman: Time, Mr. Stay. I'm done. Last sentence. I was thinking about those things that I didn't want to repeat right now, which have violated the trust between you and some of the citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13270	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13271	Just for a little while. You say the same price. It doesn't have to mean anything. In particular, in these eight companies, do you know what the price was in the tenders when they were sold? You say -- it was like this or a company like that. For all eight, there were 15m euros in the tender. They were all bought together in the tender, as they would say, transparently for 15m euros. Now, by direct contract, we sell them for 100. What do I mean? The fact is that the tender in one good part of the case gives you what you're saying is probably a better price. Sometimes, especially when it comes to things, it doesn't necessarily mean. It's not exactly the case here. Ask anyone, even stronger from the world, would you give 10,000 euros or 12,000 euros per hectare? It's rarely like this size of a hectare. We're not talking about buying five acres, we're talking about selling 7,000 acres, and there's these other figures left. We have a very interesting situation and I often wonder because I was an advocate of that school that we would get the efficiency of the system that way, and now I'm watching – until we had tenders we all built alive in this country. When tenders were put in place, which I stood up for myself, nothing life was built for any reason or very little. All hydrothermia, all thermal power plants were built at a time when there were no tenders. I have a dilemma at least.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13272	The word is from the People's Messenger Jelena Travar-Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13273	Dear President, honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, today I will allow myself to speak only of one agreement as a national MP coming from Vojvodina. Today we have heard that this agreement is causing dilemmas in Vojvodina. It is an agreement on co-operation between the government of the RS and the Government of the United Arab Emirates. Both sides will especially encourage security, economic and trade co-operation. When I speak as a Duchess, I would like to remind you that Vojvodina covers 35% of Serbia's agricultural surface. It participates in arable surfaces with 39% and in orans with as much as 47%. What is certainly regrettable is that in Vojvodina it is irrigated between 1.2% and 4.4% of processed surfaces, which is inadmissible in the light of the potentials that Vojvodina has. When we talk about channel systems that were built in the previous period, they're largely abandoned and out of use. It's a small number of systems that are functional. What we certainly need is to strengthen competitiveness and one of the most significant conditions for the development of agrobusiness is certainly to stimulate the construction of the use of the irrigation system, as well as direct sides and state investments. Unfortunately, climate change, and we are all witnessing the same, and changing the flood with dry years, and there was even a year when in the spring we had floods in Vojvodina, and flying droughts, which significantly made it difficult for farmers to work, is something that has to be solved anyway. Building a sustainable and efficient agricultural sector, which can compete in the world market, is Vojvodina and that is the Serbia I want to see in the future. What does cooperation in the area of agriculture mean? Investments in the development of agricultural production, investments in land irrigation and drainage systems, the establishment of joint experimental and research centres in the areas of agriculture, forestry and the environment. Irrigation and these areas I mentioned should lead to increased competitiveness. I am aware of the fact that confirming this agreement is only one step ahead of what needs to happen and that benefit that farmers should have in Vojvodina. I think there are farmers who need to understand very well what I'm talking about today. The whole point is that on a smaller surface, i.e. on an area already being treated with this type of support, they get the best possible contribution, that through cooperation with Al Dahra as a company that follows the opening of a market that is not currently available to individual producers. On a smaller surface, they have a higher contribution and get as much as possible for a larger quantity of products. That's where we get the competitiveness. On the other hand, when we mentioned irrigation and my trust in the achievement of these agreements, it is based on what exactly the channel network should be working on the territory of the municipality from which I come. One section refers to Žitište – Ninja, and the other part to Medje... So I really believe that I have a lot of right to talk about competitiveness, about the position of farmers and how much they can understand why they need modernization in every sense, not only when we talk about irrigation but also about modernising equipment with which they work, and that's also one of the parts that will be realized when we open up space and the possibility of having long-term credits for a period of 10 years with a certain grace period, because every farmer knows that every chance that's available to him if he is truly engaged in that profession, and I am absolutely sure that they and these agreements and this government will have my full support as long as we all try to make sure that the citizens of my municipality, Vojvodina and Serbia themselves live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13274	Thank you. MP Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13275	Dear President, respected government representatives, respected colleagues and colleagues, Serbia is certainly in need of co-operation with all countries that have fresh capital and want to invest in Serbia, and so is this country of the United Arab Emirates. We heard something about the country itself, that it has one of the biggest GDP in the world of several hundred billion, close to $50,000 per capita. It is a country where there is a high standard of living and where employment opportunities are, which is extremely important to us. They're looking for a lot of machine engineers, architects, flight attendants, flight attendants, etc. They do oil production and other areas. They take great care of their culture, tradition and cherish the symbols of their faith in Islam, so that from this area of culture we can learn something from them about cultivateing culture and tradition. As far as the agreement is concerned, the most important agreement with the United Arab Emirates is the general co-operation between the RS government and the United Arab Emirates in 13 areas and, above all, the economic and political partnership is very important for Serbia because of the fresh capital that the United Arab Emirates can bring to Serbia. What we've heard today and what's been said in the media lately is that the most interest has been triggered by this section of agriculture. What we've heard, not to repeat, is that it's a sale of the share of the assets of these agricultural combinations that have since failed privatisation been state-owned, but it's also a part of the lease, ad mockery through business-technical co-operation. We at the DSS believe that the most important thing is that the resources are not sold but that the more the land is leased, the more the land is leased. The very example of this business-technical co-operation that will be implemented is probably a good example of where 20% of the contributions will go to the Karadjordevo Military Institute. It's a good example of a kind of partnership. What was interesting to me is that 30m euros have these combinations, as the minister said earlier, but also combines you when entering the new firm with the obligation to repay all debts and to take off mortgages. If they're going to have to do it on their own or if that new company is going to do it, I don't get it. Anyway, those combineds are bought without debts, if I understand best. I would like to highlight the very important co-operation of investments in the area of air traffic. I think it is important because of the diversity of the tourism offer in Serbia, because I think that in addition to the participation of the United Arab Emirates, or possible participation in JAT, it is also very important that we may offer investments in certain airports not only here in Belgrade but throughout Serbia, because in this way we might be able to attract tourists from the United Arab Emirates to come to all parts of Serbia, not only in Belgrade, and possibly some possibility of co-operation on the topic of airport capacities. The part about real estate isn't very clear to me. Does this mean that citizens of the United Arab Emirates will own property in Serbia? What was interesting to me, which is co-operation in the area of the environment, that is, co-operation in the area of building green cities. I have already seen that in the United Arab Emirates some cities called green, i.e. cities without pollution and the use of completely alternative energy sources have been built, which is very significant. I think that in Serbia, we need to be a little more committed to protecting the environment, renewable energy sources, and certainly maybe we can transfer some of the experiences from the United Arab Emirates, which they have, which we have heard and we could read on the Internet that they are turning seawater into drinking water, that people who have transformed the desert into an oasis can help us and that they can pass on some of their experiences, at least to the area of renewable energy sources and link it to the economy. In any case, one of the issues that is raised is whether, for example, in that basic company, an 80-20% ratio, a sale of capital, a share of capital or a complete one, for example, before the end of those ten years and the like, how are they going to be executed, can they sell these companies to anyone and in any way? Maybe that'd be interesting to hear, since I didn't see it anywhere in the agreement. The situation in agriculture in our country is as it is and the poor privatisation of agricultural combinations has led to this situation in agriculture and to agricultural combinations that have failed in the privatisation process, completely devastated equipment with fired workers, which are then state-owned, but certainly it could not have returned to some normal level. I believe, as my predecessors have said, or my counterpart Popovic, that the Stabilisation and Association Agreement which can only further bury the Serbian economy because more than 95% of agricultural products, since 1 January 2014, will have liberalised imports, without customs here in Serbia. I believe that this will be devastating for the Serbian economy, and in this sense we must deal with raising the productivity of our agricultural products, because our agriculture, including industry, will be found in one wind, in competition with markets that are much more stable, stronger and more serious EU markets, than is ours. I think we should send some initiative to co-operate with local food producers by the United Arab Emirates and their companies who should go in that direction after signing this agreement. In any case, the ideas that the DSS is propagating and which are in Serbia's 2012-2017 development programme in large part correspond to these parts of the agreement relating to agriculture, i.e. the pre-contracts that we have already heard in the media, which is that it must certainly invest in equipment and machinery, that it must invest in irrigation systems. We believe that the conditions for greenfield investments in agriculture must be improved and that exports of finished products should not be exported to such raw products, because unbranded products and those who do not have high quality cannot lead to high profits. It would be minimal to invest in this technology, as well as new equipment and machinery. What we need to do in the future in the area of agriculture is build a complete catastrophe of agricultural land and deal with the accumulation of properties. It is important to take advantage of the situation where organic production in Serbia is possible and the demand for organic products in Europe is high. In any case, to conclude, to attract investors, to attract investment, fresh capital in Serbia, we need to make positive legal solutions, to have an effective administration and to ensure legal certainty and thus will not run out of investment, but above all, foreign investments that will lead to the improvement of our domestic economy, because our domestic economy and domestic production must be above any foreign investor. It is important to highlight the diversification of the market. It means that the EU is not the only market Serbia can co-operate with. We've seen that, we're glad to see it, through cooperation with Russia, but also with the United Arab Emirates. Once again, we don't need to sell resources. It is one of the last things to deal with, but perhaps more to be leased, to work on raising technical and technological equipment, to make as much progress as possible through this kind of diplomacy, because we see that the EU has an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13276	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13277	Thank you. Dear Parliament Speaker, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, respected fellow MPs, it is my pleasure to attend today such an important debate on agreements that have a note of economic co-operation with individual countries in the world. This is the first session that, with this kind of theme, has caused really great attention to all MPs. All of us who have been in this assembly for seven months are witnessing that usually such agreements, the MPs easily go over the content, and this time it has caused great attention because of the states with which we have concluded these legal agreements. Here they brought attention to agreements with the Russian Federation and, of course, agreements with the United Arab Emirates. Those who have talked about it in a peri-curious sense should explain why they do not invest this much in these countries, and that from some others in a much smaller scale. What was really interesting to me is that those who are against these agreements or who spoke negatively were mostly elected by MPs who are from the territory of the AP Vojvodina and I am pleased to say that I represent the MPs of the SNS Group, that I am from Novi Sad and that I am from Vojvodina, and that those who live in Novi Sad and Vojvodina really mean a lot to us these investments, and this is a significant agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates. Of course, there's been a lot of criticism. I don't know why some MPs made a parallel with the agreement between Serbia and the Russian Federation. It is also a major investment, and concerns the privatisation of NIS, which Novosadjani, the Vojvodjans, welcome well. If you weren't in parliament, if you hadn't heard from some MPs of certain political parties, who are currently not in power and are not participating in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you wouldn't have met an ordinary citizen on the streets of Novi Sad who would have told you something speculative about investments in NIS, or privatisation, and even less about investments with the United Arab Emirates that we are talking about today. To bring the citizens closer, not to us who are here and who are politically colored, what does that investment mean? Those that could be investments from the Emirates from the data I found, just to say in figures, that's 220 million dollars that will be invested in the missile system, then 100m euros in eight agricultural combinations, mostly in Vojvodina, 100m euros from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund, four billion euros planned to invest in the chip factory. I don't know how long it takes to build a modern building of a hotel in Belgrade, but we can only see what the buildings of General Staff look like now. Of course, partnership with JAT and JAT "Technics". How much attention has this theme of investment by the United Arab Emirates in Vojvodina, in the Vojvodina countries? I'm just asking a question - what's the problem? It's state property, there's a completely failed combination, there's people who don't get paid now an extremely long period of time, it's a third-class country. I don't understand what opposition MPs are actually defending? They're defending indefensible. We heard criticism here at the expense of these agreements, why, for example, some other companies from the EU didn't have a chance to report as well? I don't understand it. We all know the situation in the combinations in Vojvodina, no one has prevented them from taking the same interest as the United Arab Emirates and offers to the Republic of Serbia the same size of investments as the Emirates. I think the answer to that is exactly what fellow MP Shormaz, as an authorised representative of the SNS, or the MP club, said, is that in fact fear is great in those who had a monopoly, that fear of being no longer able to do great tycoons, let's call them coloquial, that they have a monopoly and that they will be able to compare the investments of an investor such as the United Arab Emirates with what was done with agricultural land in Vojvodina by Mr.Sharic's dirty money or some of those big companies that had a monopoly to buy out the country. I am also concerned about the tone of individual parliamentary groups in the opposition, which no objections or such discussions have been held by parliament, as if for years it had been bought or bought and leased by Croatian investors in Vojvodina. I don't mean anything persuasive, I'm just trying to contort you who have something against the United Arab Emirates, so some security assessments, let's not put it out publicly, talk about alarming data from the farmland purchased by certain countries, no one here has mentioned it or said something bad about it. So, we have investors from Croatia, we have very many investors from Hungary, we have investors in Sombor from Ireland, but that doesn't bother, and when an investor like the United Arab Emirates appears, well, then that's a problem for individual political parties and opposition MPs. One of the MPs said -- what is not good for Vojvodina is not good for Serbia. I'll tell him right now, to make it easier for him to sleep quietly tonight, that it's great for Vojvodina, that it's great for us Duchesses and peasants, or couples, in Vojvodina, who will finally be able to work in these combinations. What is good for Vojvodina is also good for Serbia, so the MP who spoke before me can be completely calm. So, if our public followed closely this course since January of the month, which our state-run summit carried out until there was a signature, which put Prime Minister Mr. Alexander Vukic and the head of the United Arab Emirates himself and raised it to one level of a certain guarantee and showed how much they cared about the development of relations between our two countries. With the same attention they followed people in the Emirates, i.e. sheik, the head of state and told our delegation, what I recently read, that they had the same problem when the Kuwaiti invested in their country and said themselves, and what they really should have bothered us more when we voted, they can't put the country in their pockets and they're related to Kuwait, so the United Arab Emirates can't take the Serbian country or the duke country somewhere, but they'll invest in irrigation. I ask all those concerned about the fate of the Vojvodina to go through our fields a little bit, to look at what it looks like, and to what it looks like right now, to imagine why, let's say, the provincial government has not provided something in these 12 years and has improved the position of agriculture in the AP Vojvodina. She had a chance, she still has it, because she's been in power for 12 years, so they could find some investors in the Vojvodina farm, and maybe they can do something about it themselves. A very important investment we haven't talked about is an investment in the military sector. The co-operation and agreement that was made in the military sector should be welcomed, of course, with Southport-SDPR, which will be the bearer of these transactions. Southport-SDPR is a traditional partner with all Arab countries and this is extremely important for our economy. A Vojvodina firm, or firm in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, will be employed, which is Utva, so there is no concern about what will happen to Vojvodina from these major investments. The company's investment, if I'm not mistaken, called Mubadala, just to explain to the citizens of Serbia, is planned to have a value of four billion euros. The comparisons for the whole level of foreign direct investment in 2012 were 1.2 billion in Serbia. So I don't know who can have something against such a huge investment, the possibility of hiring a thousand people, and that highly educated people. Are we going to have so many experts or not? It is important that universities have said they have educated people, that they will continue in this direction to develop this education sector and that the most important part is whether we will have enough personnel to design chips, for research, for work on innovation, but we should also turn to diaspora. Many people have left this country, worked in prestigious companies, and we don't need to worry immediately in advance whether we're going to have enough people. So these investments are welcome. Certainly, the SNS parliamentary group will support these investments, will support all citizens of Serbia, will support people in Vojvodina because they are not as politically colored as all of us who are sitting in this parliament simply looking for a job and are looking for some kind of better life that any well-intentioned investor can bring to them, as are certainly these investments provided for by agreements which, I have no doubt, will ratify or vote on the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13278	Thank you. The People's MP Radmil Gerov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13279	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering four agreements that discuss the co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates and two agreements under which our country needs to be re-indebted. In just seven months, the government has tasked all citizens of the country with three billion euros. Today you are proposing an agreement with the Russian Federation, which Serbia should be in charge of an additional $800m and a second agreement with Kuwait, where we should be in charge of 27m euros. Both agreements talk about investment in railways. The fact is, our stripes are really bad. To me, as an MP coming from Negotina, from eastern Serbia, it is very regrettable that on the list where the railways will be repaired there is no part of the railway that passes through eastern Serbia, from Književec, Zaječar, to Negotina, where trains travel 20km per hour and faster you can reach one city to another on foot. But you'll agree, Minister, that in a country where we have so many unemployed, where the salaries are low, where pensioners barely live, it's very difficult, when we add up all these duties, to explain how the citizens will repay the debt that this government has caused them, which is about 500 euros per capita. We know this country has small exports, we don't have production, we don't have new jobs. With this loan with the Russian Federation, except you're in charge of repairing railroads, you're also in charge of buying trains, but not just any train manufactured in Russia. So we from the Russian state get a loan that needs to be paid back with an 800 million dollar interest, with the obligation that we can only buy trains from them. Is that favourable for Serbia, our country? The previous government, it before it, and this one today, whenever it signs an international treaty with the Russian Federation, it is somehow at the expense of the citizens of this country. Such is the contract with the NIS, such is the contract to build the "South Stream", where Serbia is the only country where the Russians have majority ownership. So today with this contract that will surely be voted in this House, our country is obliged to buy exclusively Russian trains. So we didn't get anything for free from Russia, and I don't see any reason if we get a loan from them, which is why we have to buy from them and trains. Mr. Dinkic, you know very well because you've been negotiating with the Russians about Zelizara Smederevo. They won't invest where they're worth it. Then why do we need every request and every desire to respect them? The Serbian Progressive Party boasted of the new Public Procurement Act, which would allow additional savings. The law will only enter into force on 1 April. By voting such a contract, there is no more application of the Public Procurement Act. Does this mean that JP Railways of Serbia, Sima, doesn't know how to enforce the law, so he needs an international contract to tell him who he has to buy trains from? Or we have the right to drive like a country on some other trains, not Russian. And it wasn't your promise, but it was some of your colleagues, ministers in the government, even a few years ago, that we'd have high-speed railways. We don't have them until today. As for these international agreements with the United Arab Emirates, all citizens are well aware that LDP has always advocated co-operation with all countries, especially countries in the region. We're absolutely not against privatisation or foreign investment, but we are against one thing. If anything applies to the citizens of this country, it should at least apply to those who want to invest in this country. You told the ministers that Al Dahra would invest $400 million in eight combinations, and one part of that funding will be used for the irrigation system. He is very much needed by the citizens of this country, and is needed for the development of agriculture. You also mentioned that there is the possibility of obtaining an additional 100m-euro loan, which would also be defined as a irrigation system, but you said there are no such projects in Vojvodina and Central Serbia, and you mentioned Vojvodina and Central Serbia several times. I have to ask you -- do you know that in South Serbia there are agricultural producers, there are also in Eastern Serbia. If you don't know, in the municipality of Negotin, from which I come, there is a project to irrigate 2500 hectares, of which 300 has been realised so far. If you're taking already some credit, and you're investing a new one, keep in mind that you've already completed a project in that municipality for a irrigation system, which I say we need. As for agricultural production in southern Serbia, I can only mention Leskovac. The previous government has promised farmers and citizens of Leskovec, who are involved in the production of plastics and greenhouses, that Leskovac will flourish with geothermal energy, which will even be used to build a spa. You know very well, although I'm not saying that you're responsible, I'm talking about the previous government, that 110 million were allocated from the republican budget for these geothermal waters. Turns out, it's a waste of money. If there was an amendment to the Law on Agricultural Land, I believe our agricultural producers would be happy to invest in a irrigation system, even if this drop by drop. But when you, by our law, can only rent land for three years for war and vegetable production. It's not worth it to anyone, while for multi-year plantings, you can do it for 20 years. What is needed for the development of agriculture is, above all, an amendment to the Agricultural Land Act. This is what you tell Mr. Knezevic to your colleague, to prepare for the immediate amendment of the Agricultural Land Act, to allow all agricultural producers and all future investors to invest in a irrigation system for a period of more than three years. I am sure that we will have more investors and we will develop more agriculture, although I do not expect it from Mr. Knezevic, because I have seen how he responded to the big milk affair crisis, and in that sense I do not think he is competent or able to propose amendments to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13280	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13281	When we talk about central Serbia, I mean both Shumadi and eastern Serbia, both in southern and western Serbia. It's central Serbia, at least as far as I know the terminology. Vojvodina, Belgrade, central Serbia, and central Serbia has the regions you spoke of. I'm a finance minister and of course I don't know why there are prepared projects. I asked the institutions involved, which are "Serbians", "Vojvodvod", "Jaroslav Černi" Institute, to give us what we have almost from the projects, because the Emirates told us – give us projects, we will grant you a month, two days' credit. So, Serbia's pipelines didn't give us, nor did Cherni, non-Certain projects, which doesn't mean that if there are, we won't include them, because we don't think we'll end it all this year. Our goal is to put as much agricultural land as possible under irrigation in both eastern Serbia and southern Serbia, which you mentioned in Pomoravlje. Now we've only got projects from the Sword and the Vojvodina. If there are others, I really don't know, because it's not my profession, but to us, it's my goal to provide funds, and to people who do irrigation to provide projects. I don't think the projects have been seriously done so far because everyone thought there wouldn't be any money for it. Now that we're on our way to getting those funds, we need institutions that are competent to create projects to animate these projects. I have to say that a number of loans have not been realised so far because projects have not been done in the end. The European Investment Bank gave us a loan for the railway from Nova Paz to Belgrade, never did the Serbian Railway project. I'm talking about years ago. There is one more thing, it is often said in these discussions – we have projects, and when we say – come on, then it turns out it's not really a project, it's an idea draft, etc. We certainly want to secure this irrigation in all the regions of Serbia. Our biggest challenge right now is to do it in central Serbia, because we know we can do a lot more in the vegetables. One line we've just asked for loans to farmers themselves so that they can make these glass gardens or plastics themselves, take the plastic heating equipment and drop-by- drop systems you mentioned, and for these public infrastructure works we'll be ready to do in all of Serbia. If you have these projects, you need to deliver them to those we need to deliver. It's a "Serbian" or some institutions that make those studies.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13282	Replica, head of the SNS parliamentary group, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13283	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will give my previous speaker, who is a MP, so that someone doesn't think it's a minister, reminding people that they have a name and a last name, and that we as well-mannered people don't call anyone Sima and Dima, but the director of the Railways of Serbia has a name and a name. His name is Dragoljub Simonovic. So much for the fine education and so much for the quality of the discussion from that party that is presented here as the most intense in this House. Obviously, whenever you talk about loans and co-operation with any country that is outside the EU, the party is disgusted with their money and their investment. We with SNS are disgusted only by the money acquired by crime. I just want to remind you when you're talking about big partners. The Sartid when your president was vice-president of the Republic of Serbia, was sold for 25m euros, was then cleared of all debts because it was bought out of bankruptcy. The state even had to repay some loans that were international, and was returned to Serbia for one dollar or a euro and a debt of 300m euros. I would also like to remind myself that the NIS that has been constantly attacking itself since it was sold to a foreign partner is no longer a loss, and Serbia as co-owner enjoys the dividend rights unlike "Sartida" we got a clean loss. So, when you start criticizing something for criticism, and not for a reason at least think about what you were doing while you were in power, not like this party, you always honor us for something else, but still some of your own were in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13284	Radmila Gerov, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13285	I have two replicas. I'll talk to the minister first, then Mr. Arsic. Mr. Minister, there are projects, I was the president of the municipality, there are in Serbia, they were done by Jaroslav Černi, and it's a project to irrigate and drain the non-China nizi at two and a half thousand hectares. So far, 300 hectares of water have been realised and Serbia is leading from Negotina not to say it has a project, and the project exists in our local assembly, it has entered capital investments, worth billions and 800,000 dinars. As far as your exposure is concerned, I'm extremely cultural and raised, I hope. Although I told everyone, and I didn't mention the name and last name, it's because Mr. Simonovic is on the website of the Public Enterprise "Serb of Serbia", where he was appointed director of his name and last name and cartoon Sima. I didn't see it anywhere that some director introduced himself like that, even though that's how he introduced himself, I believe I have the right to call it by nickname. As far as I'm concerned, the Sartid has been sold, by paying back the debts, so as far as I can tell, you're paying back your debts here to these combineds. The Arab Emirates do not buy eight combinations of debts, which are about 30m euros, according to Mr Dinkic, but will repay those debts to the state. As far as NIS is concerned, it is a successful Russian company. Right? A successful Russian, not a Serbian company and sold at a lower price than it was supposed to be sold and you know it very well. You can take your head now. You've been shaking your head and your previous years when we talked about good neighbourly co-operation in the region, so now you're working together.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13286	Don't talk to the People's Messenger like that. MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13287	If someone is going to invest 200m euros in infrastructure they can't carry, if they're going to hire people, maybe we should pay that 30m euros. But just to remind you, the Sartida debt that the state paid, which from domestic banks, is a billion euros from foreign banks. Immeasurable, incomparable, and why didn't you ask the question, then Sartid, a year ago, U.S. Steel, whose company is it? American. From what? That's what I'm talking about, you don't have the same principle, you have double standards. So what comes from the U.S. has to be unconditionally good, I have nothing, whatever comes from there, if it's in some of our interests, but also on any other side, if someone is investing, if they're new jobs, then it's got to be good. If you say you were the president of the municipality, here I guarantee you that any investor in Pogorevec shows up, we're ready and we're willing to give up the fees for city building land but to hire us 500, 600, 700 people, to hire people, not to trade with people, but to hire them. Probably if it comes from another side that's not Russian, it'll be acceptable to you, if it comes from the Russian side then that's the problem, if it comes from the United Arab Emirates, it's your problem again. These are your double standards that you always have whenever there are debates here in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13288	Replica, Mrs. Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13289	Mr. Arsic, we really don't have double standards and as far as Al Dahra's investments are concerned, what did I say? In my presentation, I said that the Law on Agricultural Land should be amended and that in the same way it would allow other agricultural producers to rent land, not for three years, but for a longer period of time. I said it, sir. As far as the Russian Federation is concerned, of course I'm against it. Which is why this country takes credit from Russia and has an obligation to buy a Russian train. You can agree with that. I don't want to agree with that. So I want to, if I took a loan from the Russian Federation, I have the right to buy any train produced in the world. Why do I have to Russian? Why do I have to take their interest credit with an obligation to buy their train? I'm sorry, I don't think that's right. You can consider that right. Those are all the agreements this country has with Russia. Tell me if I'm right that only Russia in Serbia has majority ownership of South Stream. Name a country where they have 51%? There is no one, only Serbia. I'm sorry it's not good for Serbia, and you can love Russia as much as you want, but it's not good for our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13290	Replica, Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13291	I won't answer any more lines, because it's hard for some people to explain something they don't want to understand. The South Stream shouldn't have gone through Serbia, and you know it just as well as I do. And that one of the conditions to attract that investment to Serbia was to give 51%. No one will give you anything beautiful, not even the Russian Federation. But if we look at the situation before that, who wanted to build us a pipeline? To buy through Hungary, which is much more expensive? We've been in a situation one hand empty, there's nothing in the other. Now we have something, and it's a good investment, and whether we own 49% or 51%, we're expected to profit at an annual level, from using that pipeline around 500m euros. Is that small? Make it five, it's not small. No one wanted to make. Same with those loans. No one in the world will give you a more favourable loan. But if he gives you a favourable loan that you can't get on the market, you have to do something in return. If he even gives you that train cheaper than you can buy on the market, without that loan, then there's an economic account. Or is always the problem it comes from the other side. I guess that's just the problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13292	National MP Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13293	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues, is ahead of us with a bill on confirming a co-operation agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, the agreement contains a series of mutual forms of co-operation between the two countries. Cooperation in the areas of economy, agriculture, tourism, health, culture, as well as many other areas. What is certain is that our country can learn much from a country like the United Arab Emirates. First of all, every serious and responsible state must learn to think and plan ahead. Thus, the United Arab Emirates realized in time that oil supplies would not last forever, so in time they started investing in other areas, such as agriculture and tourism. That there is no possible United Arab Emirates have just proved in the case of agriculture. What is very important, in the case of agriculture, perhaps even the most important form of co-operation, which is in this agreement, is that all planned investments that should come from the United Arab Emirates, which means investments in the irrigation of land, the development of agricultural production, as well as the modernisation of agricultural equipment, can begin as early as possible in 2013, which is crucial for our country, because we will recognise that we need investments in this area as soon as possible. What is crucial is also the establishment of joint experimental and research centres in the areas of agriculture, forestry and the environment. Agriculture, that's what we need to understand, like all other areas today, is not static, there is no area anymore that is static, but extremely dynamic, for example. as health care. We need to understand that and keep up with the world all the time if we want to present the best possible product on the market, means that we are always one step ahead with the world, and one day, why not, one step ahead. In this way, with all these common measures, we can bring the united to the conclusion that our agriculture is finally experiencing a long-awaited rebirth, because you will admit, without a strong and rebirth of agriculture, there is no significant progress in our economic and social development. Another very important form of co-operation, envisioned by this agreement, is investment in the area of tourism. As far as tourism is concerned, Serbia has outstanding potential, which unfortunately has not been used very well. We know that tourism is an area in which it really has to be invested, but that same money invested is fast and coming back and starting to earn the fastest. What I would particularly draw attention to is Serbia's exceptional wealth when it comes to relatively well-preserved medieval cities, which, unfortunately, is not sufficiently invested and not used in the best possible way. Near these medieval cities are mostly numerous churches, monasteries that represent true attraction. Perhaps the best example of such a place, is the medieval town of Maglic, which is located not far from the city of Kralje, and for which there is now, up to the detailed plan, the project to make such a one place a real tourist attraction for both domestic and foreign tourists. In order for tourism to develop uninterruptedly, what we have to offer is a high-quality transport service, which is also foreseen by this agreement, with the Republic of Serbia providing for the use or purchase of port and airport facilities in existing companies in our country, to enable modernisation of land, river and air traffic, means what we need across. This will also lead to the development, the expansion of these capacities and, of course, to the creation of new jobs for our citizens. No less important co-operation, also foreseen by this agreement, is in the field of energy and environmental protection. It will be seen, above all, in planning, how, let's say, in the best possible way to use atomic energy for peaceful purposes. Then renewable energy sources, alternative energy sources, both in the best possible way to protect the environment, the green city project, and of course how to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. One of the most important co-operations provided for in this agreement is military security co-operation, which will be seen primarily in the exchange of information and experience in the fight against crime, organised crime, terrorism and corruption. These measures will certainly contribute to Serbia becoming a state in which every citizen feels extremely secure and protected, which is what we all aim at. What I have listed are just some of the types of co-operation that will take place between these two countries and what I would point out in the end, is that Serbia as a state represents one huge potential, which has unfortunately not been used enough so far, but that this government also has the strategy, patience and necessary energy to develop this potential to its maximum, and this agreement is just one of a series of concrete actions that this government is carrying out in order to achieve Serbia as an advanced and economically stable state. So the SNS will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13294	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister Dinkic, above all, to clarify about this well and you are aware that it was an adventure of the previous mayor Leskovec, who cost the citizens of Leskovec a million and three hundred thousand euros. At 1,500 meters, thermal water was found at 53 degrees, so it couldn't be exploited at all. So it was an adventure that cost us all in Leskovac and Serbian citizens dearly. When it comes to this agenda point, where we're talking about various agreements, contracts, credit arrangements, I'm going to concentrate on two credit arrangements, it's with the Russian Federation, Russian credit, where Serbia will get about $800 million and a Kuwait loan, i.e. From the Arab Economic Development Fund, where we'll get about $25 million from Kuwait. Therefore, both of these loans will be used to revitalise railways, to build some new facilities or to buy diesel motor trains. We all know that Serbia is the country in charge, that the absolute public debt is around 18.7 and that since 2008, it has grown 113%. However, we at the DSS have a clear position when funds are invested both in infrastructure and in production, the opening of new jobs will always support you. However, we will always criticise you when you take credit for the budget deficit and for public spending. These two loans, we said, are being taken to revitalise the Serbian railway. I want first of all to say that the situation in Serbian railways is catastrophic, as is the state. It's not your fault for the state of the railways, because you found the situation. I want to explain this time what is disastrous in Serbian railways. You all know we have over 800 kilometers of rail. Then, these railways are between 40 and 60 years old and are very difficult to drive around. They reach a speed of about 40 kilometers per hour. In some places, especially in the region of southern and southeastern Serbia, it is already running at a speed of between 10km and 30km. I hope after taking these funds that this condition will greatly improve. Then we must say that in the Warm End, the people's joy simply comes when the train arrives. It's a Cossack wheel, Minister, because trains don't traffic regularly. Petitions have also been written, however, the answer is that there are not enough locomotives. I hope after this loan there'll be enough locomotives and trains to traffic. In that part of Serbia, not only do trains jump out of the timetable, but they jump out of the track, which is very dangerous both for passengers and for rail transport at all. A railway from Belgrade to Thessaloniki was built in 1886. That's when the direction from Belgrade to Leskovec, so I'm coming, went about four and a half hours. He's traveling around six o'clock now. You can figure out what kind of railroad we're in. But I'm afraid of something else, Mr. Minister, that Corridor 10 remains a dead letter on paper, unless the state reacts and the state reconstructs this Corridor 10. The threats are that European trains will bypass us, that they will go through Bulgaria, Romania, that they will go through Corridor 4. That's why the state, gentlemen of Europe, must react urgently, promptly, if you want to go to the EU with fast tracks and fast trains ETZ, which go 300km per hour to go, or you will go to Cir. I'm afraid that's how you'll get to the EU only in 2050, perhaps in 2060, if the EU wants us in its embrace. Now let's look at these loans that we're talking about today with the Russian Federation, which is the export credit that the Republic of Serbia took, about $800 million and will be used to build several shares, so, as we all know, we've already heard that. According to Pančev, the second track to be electrified, according to the Valjevo-Loznica railway, is likely to work, to be combined with the Republika Srpska Central and Western Serbia, on the Belgrade-Bar railway, on Corridor 10, 6, the location of a total length of 110km and to buy diesel motor trains to be used in the transport of passengers. However, this trail of events, i.e. the signing of this contract, has some chronology. The country's presidents first met, and a strategic partnership was signed between Russia's state railways and Serbian railways, and finally the final contract came. And look at the wonders, you're the signator of this final contract, Mr Dinkic, and I'm very pleased, since you've had reserves against Russian capital, that you're the signator of this contract. I hope you've evolved as a politician and you support one of these things, I'm extremely pleased. When it comes to the second loan, it's a loan with the Kuwaitian Fund for Arab Economic Development. It's about ten million dinars, but not Serbian, but Kuwaiti. When we convert, it's about $25 million. It should be spent on building the Belgrade railway station "Centar", the first phase. It takes 37,000 square meters to build eight tracks, four extra and five platforms, as well as a tunnel structure to build this building to build a hole. It began to be built in 1977. So far, $35 million has been spent. In order to do that, about 150 million more must be spent. How the state will find the money, we'll just talk about it. Otherwise, for the total Belgrade node, which should be operational, another 350 million should be spent. Up to now, around 600m euros have been spent. I hope the state will also provide funds. Mr. Dinkic, I don't know if you've thought about a public private partnership at all about financing Serbian railways? And there's this possibility, this model of funding, so there's a chance that you might start thinking about finding strategic partners who want to see their own interests. Mr Dinkic, I want to send a message from this session, and that is a message from all of us here, that this government has made one of Serbia's detachment finances, which is the EU. So, as DSS, we said that we should expand co-operation on economic principles with all, both EU and BRIKS countries, third-world countries, Arab countries. Today we are talking about all these countries investing in Serbia. They are interested in investing in Serbia, we just need to give them certain projects to finance. We're building a bridge over the Battle today. Here, the Russians finance the construction of certain railway tracks. And then today we're talking about investing the Arab Emirates. Mr. Vukic is going to negotiate in Angola for some investments. It's all good. So it is good that Serbia attracts as many foreign investors as possible to invest in Serbia. It is not good that Serbia has damage because it will be "a member of the European Union". The Stabilisation Agreement cost Serbia over the past four years 600m euros. That's how much less we have in the budget. We all know that well. So, the DSS, as you said, will always support these laws and these kinds of responsibilities aimed at investing in infrastructure, in production and in opening new jobs. So you'll have a strategic partner in us, but if the loans are taken, as I said, to fill the deficits in the budget, you'll also have a big critic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13296	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13297	I'm just going to state the government's position. We have not made any deviation from the EU. We expect the EU, through the European Investment Bank, 500m euros this year for small and medium-sized enterprises. We just want to co-operate with everyone, both the EU and Russia, and China, with the United Arab Emirates, with all the countries. Any country of them can give us a certain contribution. I do not agree with your assessment of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, because, don't forget, thanks to the agreement Serbia has duty-free exports to the EU, and 58% of our exports go to the EU countries' market. It's our biggest export market. So we can't be exclusive. I just want to say, as you should not, perhaps, as you have criticised, that we should be related only to the EU, but we should also work with Russia, China, the Emirates. That's right. But now we don't have to throw away the market that's our biggest and where we're natural. So all we have to do is expand and expert our co-operation to others. That's what we do. That's what I want to underline. So the government will continue to co-operate with European institutions. The Association and Stabilisation Agreement, when you look at the costs and benefits, are far greater benefits, because we got right away, back in 2001 - 2002, when we first made the agreement, that we could export the goods to them without customs duty, and we were only gradually abolished within 15 years of customs duty. Some agricultural findings are not correct. We have no obligation since 2014 to lower customs duties on agricultural products. On the contrary, this is a delayed fact. That's what your colleague said. It should be simply balanced and measured. We will co-operate with all of whom Serbia's citizens and all of our regions can benefit.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13298	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13299	When I spoke to the island to the EU, I mean political deviation. Otherwise, we as a party and how we want to co-operate, normally and when we take that responsibility to lead the country, with all countries and on European economic principles, with all the BRIKS countries, Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa, which are now investing, but many of the countries and the EU condition us with state integrity to co-operate with us and to join the EU. We're big critics here, Mr. Dinkic. We don't want to be blackmailed. This political neutrality will send a clear message that we are interested in all countries that want to invest in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13300	The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13301	Thank you. President-in-Office and fellow MPs, I have indeed come up with a different concept of the beginning of my discussion, but it is very interesting that this false distinction that comes all day long from the position of the opposition, if I may say so, about desirable and unwanted markets, about the EU's alternatives or some opposition relationship with someone who is not from the EU to invest in Serbia at all. It's simply an incredible substitute for thesis and I find it very harmful for Serbia. I don't know that there are unwanted and desirable markets, especially at a time of such difficult economic conditions and a devastated economy, if I may say, pumped and blown up Serbian economies, in order to be here right now, I even have to criticise the minister a little bit in terms of his apologetic performance in which he tries to do well, I suppose, to explain and justify the investments that come from these markets, and I don't think there's any need for any justification. Who doesn't understand the need for investment to come to Serbia, he really doesn't know what he's doing in politics or in parliament, but well, these are all legitimate spiritual moments of opposition, when there are no other good reasons. But on this subject, I really can't believe anyone has anything against investment. I will focus on agreements with the United Arab Emirates. I really think it is important to take an affirmative approach, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia and explain why these agreements are important. Agreements with the Russian Federation and Kuwait are also very important, but it seems to me that agreements with the Emirates are one strategic turning point in the Serbian economy. I really must commend, this is where the previous fellow MP spoke of the BRIKS countries. I remember very well in 2007. The then-resoring minister spoke as an extorted twist on BRIKS markets, and we do not have a forced turn today, but we have an active performance and an active movement of this government to find space for Serbian companies and to advance, if nothing else, to these companies, but to advance what we have comparative advantages, which is agriculture. These comparative advantages, according to Vojvodina MPs, to be a driver of Serbia's development, are unfortunately such that in Vojvodina, where the country is such that when you throw the button, it should not grow, and those who can help us improve agritechnical measures are from a country where when you throw a button, it sinks into the sand and yet how well... If you can, Mr. President, ask the People's MPs, I don't like to outvote or even from my parliamentary group. Thank you. So we should be focused. These are important things. They directly refer to the future of Serbian citizens, and here's a way. So, this kind of economic co-operation and this shift in markets that are in expansion, among other things, the United Arab Emirates, which have, I would like to inform the citizens of that, on the scale that has indeed been established by the Washington Institute of International Finance, have been ranked for ten years as another Arab economy, the economy of the Arab world, and which has been a tendency to advance and double by 2014 many parameters that make up the overall GDP of the United Arab Emirates, a country that has managed for the last 30 years, since oil has been found as a major source of economic progress, since one small desert Emirates became an extremely modern and expansion country, primarily in terms of economy, tourism, economy, economy, etc., etc. Agriculture is very small. Agriculture only participates with 0.8% in the overall social gross social product, which is also very important for us, because if for one Serbia it is not important to be on the map of the country's investment that tends to seriously increase GDP in the coming years, then I don't know what's important. So, I just wanted to say these few things about the United Arab Emirates that people would really know about what a significant world economy is doing, and certainly don't ignore any other aspect that is very little to talk about, which is the fact that economic relations and the presence of capital are far the best to absorb all potential and security challenges and risks that we're not immune to, given our geopolitical and geostrategic position. That's why I think the presence of capital from the Arab Emirates, which is also a large partner and the United States, and how it can contribute to one, let's say, stabilising and some other and security and political, and, if you will, economic and cultural moments. Why don't you point that out? As for the agreements themselves that are related to agriculture and to the dedicated industry, I'll just say a few things, which I don't think are mentioned, some are. As for the dedicated industry, the current relations between our two countries are indeed a good basis for developing and intensifying and overall bilateral co-operation, and where bilateral co-operation is good, it directly leads to a better position in multilateral co-operation and this military economic co-operation with the United Arab Emirates, as far as I got the information, was established in 1983, but in the present period it was extremely modest and mainly consisted of military-economic co-operation in the organisation of the company "Jugoimport SDPR" and, of course, of course, some participatory involvement of our military doctors at symposiums and therefore there was co-operation. At this point, co-operation in the area of defence can be developed primarily in the area of military-economic co-operation, but also through military and other forms of co-operation, given that it is still ready to respond to all requirements of education and training in the military education institutions of the Republic of Serbia, for which there is an interest of the United Arab Emirates. I received information that following the signing of the Agreement on Interstate Co-operation and the Agreement on Mutual Encouragement and Investment Protection, the Agreement between the Government of the RS and the Government of the United Arab Emirates on Co-operation in the Area of Defence, and then the Joint Declaration on Strategic Partnership and the Agreement on Joint Development and Equipment of the Alas rocket system between the company "South-Arab SDPR" and "Emirat Sedvent Research and Technology Holding LLS" are opening up opportunities for co-operation in all areas of common interest when it comes to the dedicated industry and the security sector, and above all to the defence. What needs to be highlighted in this segment, and it also refers to agriculture and everything else that is listed in the agreements, are the exceptional financial opportunities of customers of the United Arab Emirates, and this market will be the subject of both the special interest and the appearance of the companies of our renowned companies in this area, primarily "Jugoimport SDPR" and the company "Staff Arms". Another thing that is related to agriculture, and it seems to me that it has been here several times targeted by representatives of some opposition parties, is the following – these disputed misunderstandings over the lease. I understood what key objections were. What I realized and what I would like to share with the citizens, so if it is not true, let them say that the only agricultural land that is the subject of the lease is 2,982 hectares used by the Surcin Land of 7 July, which is part of the PKK, and for which no single dinar has been paid by the state so far. The pre-contract provides for a lease of 2,982 mentioned hectares of the country at 250 euros per hectare per year, which represents, as I understand, an extremely high price, given that it is, I am not an expert but I understand, on the categorisation of land. There are first and second ones, and these are the third and fourth categories of land, while the average price of leases in Serbia last year was 180 euros per hectare. It's official data and there's no doubt about it. Therefore, all those who say the average price of rent is 500 to 600 euros per hectare were killed. All other state-owned countries that have so far been used in the lease, including 16.5 thousand hectares, used by the combination covered by the pre-contract, will be issued, if I'm wrong, to deny me, exclusively the duchy of the duchy, not the companies of the United Arab Emirates. These are the things that have been misused, perhaps the ignorance of the public, and perhaps we haven't presented it well to the public, but these are facts. If these aren't facts, give a good argument that they're not. The presence of foreign capital with regard to the possession of Serbian orans, which has also been asked as a question, is truly amazing in a situation where the most countries in Vojvodina are owned by Hungarians, Croats, and then, as the counterpart mentioned, by the Irish in Somboro. In Vojvodina today, nearly 25,000 hectares are held by foreigners. Then I don't understand one strange suggestion from a fellow opposition party that says -- please, where is the reciprocity in relation to Serbia and Serbian citizens? I really agree with reciprocity. I find it strange that this kind of appeal did not exist at the time when one of our very close neighbouring countries, which is very similar to our size and some capacities, might be somewhat smaller, and that is Croatia, including Hungary, did not hear the appeal for opening the market and reciprocity which should exist between our more compatible economies than the United Arab Emirates. Not to mention that there are a number of agricultural enterprises, perhaps someone mentioned it, owned and how controversial businessmen, as they say, and those who are hit today and fully deserved the fight against corruption and crime. Therefore, these are facts that are little to talk about. There's talk of criticism for criticism. I will never support this, especially when it comes to improving the economic environment in Serbia. I have to look back, now I've thought of it, maybe I wouldn't say, how some personal relationships and personal initiatives have brought the United Arab Emirates to the point where I don't know what good they're going to do, and we're going to suffer no harm. Those who do not know the relationship in international relations can speak that way. The Arab world is a specific world, specific to the level of its political culture, which is primarily based on respect, personal trust and personal respect. From all that and only that arises trust in business environments, business and business. I am happy and pleased that Mr. Vukic, as Deputy Prime Minister, understood this by establishing good contacts and thanking all those from the government who recognized it, among other things and present minister, and accompanied this kind of raising the total bilateral relationship between our two countries and opened the possibility of Serbia becoming a respectable partner in the future to truly huge markets in expansion. That is why we will absolutely support all these agreements, and that is why I think that one kind of good majority in this congregation should support it. It is directly in the interests of Serbian citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13302	The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13303	Dear President, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we today have agreements like we talked all day about co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, the Russian Federation. All investments that come to Serbia without looking at which sides they come have come well at the time of the economic crisis. It may be necessary to highlight economic co-operation with the United Arab Emirates because it is one of the richest countries in the world and because it has a large capital that it wants to invest. Today we confirm an agreement on co-operation in 13 areas between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates, and this has been discussed by fellow MPs, relations with industry, economy, agriculture, infrastructure, but the main focus has been on investing in agriculture and this agriculture agreement is a prerequisite for the realisation of the agreement with "Al Dahra" and the pre-contract is intended for a certain agricultural country to be purchased, and it is determined to take a certain amount of time to rent. Most MPs talked about it today. Should we sell our land? Should we make a difference whether our country is bought by agricultural Croatian investors and Hungarian investors, are they investors from the Emirates? The principled view of the DSS is that we shouldn't sell our resources. That we should invest in agriculture, that we should strengthen our domestic production. Why? As you respected ministers have said, the Emirates have learned that, besides oil, they need to invest in food and water, so we need food as a geostrategic factor to point out that we are developing primary production in our country. If we look back on agriculture and the sale of land, one question that has been raised for me as I prepare for this session, although you have already given an answer today, which is a question of restitution. If we respect one significant investor who comes to invest in Serbia, if we overlook, I am glad we did not overlook in this case. If the country sold to the Emirates wasn't part of the Minister's restitution, then I wanted to simply mention it even though you've already given the answer, because it would be important because it would lead to complications of the significant in that agreement. Another question we haven't mentioned today, and I think it's significant, it's a GMO question. I think we need contracts or contracts to sell businesses and their parts to predict, to look for guarantees that GMO cultures will not be produced on these surfaces that they will rent or buy. Another agreement on the agenda today is the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates government in co-operation in the area of defence. It's for all praise. The signing of this pre-contraction, the comets and you were saying, I am glad that we have recognized it, and in my presentation, I have singled out the most significant, which is that the signing of a pre-contract on the defence industry is worth 220 million dollars for the development of a sophisticated missile system that involves research and development, is extremely important for us where our military-technical institute will be involved, where our companies will be hired, such as Utva, Krusik, Teleoptika, will be involved. In the end, because we have been talking all day and I really don't want to repeat myself and what my colleagues have been saying, we sincerely hope that the investments that these international agreements are planning to come to Serbia because we need them, that we need to develop our economy, our agriculture, and that the investments that have arrived will not be used only for some short-term and not just for some short-term financial injection, but that they will be invested in these long-term, our projects and for long-term objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13304	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13305	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, I don't know why I don't think it's weird that colleagues and colleagues who have been criticizing the proposed legal acts all day, or a set of laws, and showing no trust, are not here tonight to listen to others, and they haven't offered us anything as a solution. The entire afternoon discussion was about agriculture and the investment of the United Arab Emirates in agriculture, and before us is a whole set of laws, primarily economic, as well as security and laws relating to trade co-operation. No one in one word mentioned an agreement to avoid double taxation in relation to taxes and incomes, no one mentioned a mutual incentive and investment protection agreement. These are some topics that were not opposition MPs at that time interesting. They used the story of agriculture and Vojvodina. I think all those investments we're going to make together with the United Arab Emirates will be on the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that we will no longer look at the sky to see what our agricultural cultures will be like, but that we will, above all, do by watering all agricultural areas. I hope central Serbia too, and I'm sure we will. Also, the story all day was about renting, selling land. No one mentioned that this is also about sales contracts, long-term leases and concessions per point system – making, using, returning. No one's even talked about it. A colleague of the Adriatic was talking, first of all, about security co-operation, and that's one big deal. Not only because we will employ our industrial capacities that work in a system of weapons and defence technology, but we will also study, I hope and carry out military obligations of students and students of military schools from the United Arab Emirates. Very little has been said about economic co-operation and the agreement on economic co-operation. There is an entire set between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates in the areas of industry and economy, investment, customs and tax, finance and banking, transport, logistics and relevant infrastructure areas and real estate areas. While I am already talking about all these agreements that we will definitely adopt and which the SNS will vote for, it is also important to mention agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation, on a banking loan to improve the situation in our railways, as well as a law on the confirmation of ratification agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Kuwaitian Fund for Arab Economic Development. Without developed infrastructure, without traffic development there is no progress in the economy. I wouldn't be too long, because I think we've all talked a lot and talked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13306	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13307	Dear Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, have been a very short time since the government of the Republic of Serbia sent these very important agreements to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and here they are now on the agenda of the National Assembly. That proves Mr. President of the National Assembly, your expeditivity as president of the assembly, and for that, it's an honor. These agreements with the United Arab Emirates, with the Russian Federation and Kuwait, are the right thing for citizens of Serbia, because when they are realised, they will improve the standard of citizens, run plotted works and contribute to better employment of our citizens. These agreements are also the realisation of the policy promoted by the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Tomislav Nikolic at the pre-election time that Serbia should co-operate with all four sides of the world, as there was not enough co-operation with these countries in the previous period because there was no political will by the previous government. Dear People's MPs, it is a huge thing to have for friends of the United Arab Emirates who want to invest their money in various areas of social life, especially when it is known that the United Arab Emirates are one of the richest countries in the world, where the average salary is $6,850 a month. That is why the first vice-president's visit to the government and defence minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, the United Arab Emirates, as well as Mr Sheikh Serbia, is of great importance to the Republic of Serbia and to the citizens of Serbia. I'd say it was the most beautiful thing that could happen to us at the beginning of 2013. Why? It is precisely because these mutual visits resulted in the signing of several agreements and more contracts. These are the agreements we are discussing today in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates, the Agreement on the Co-operation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates in the area of defence, then, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates on mutual incentive and protection of investments and the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates on the avoidance of double taxation in relation to income tax. The military co-operation agreement for the Republic of Serbia is of exceptional military interest not only but also economic benefits, which will be felt by citizens of Serbia when they are realised. The sale of weapons and equipment is of great economic benefit to our country. Let me just say that we made $750 million from arms and equipment in 2012. It's not a little bit. We were among the most trusted customers in last year were Iraq, which imported 20 "Last"-type school airplanes. It's not just him. The list includes partners of the United States, Italy, Germany, but also of our old friends: Algeria, Egypt, Kenya and other non-classified countries. The Serbian military industry is a very important factor for Serbian citizens, as it employs 20,000 workers today. What is very important is that this agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates in the area of defence has resulted in concrete projects already. That's where I'm talking about a contract related to the Alas missile system. The contract means a lot to the citizens of Serbia, as it is the Serbian missile system that represents the most ambitious development project of the Serbian military industry in technical and technological terms. It's actually an anti-aircraft, multi-purpose high-range missile system, with a principle of direct visual contact with the goal. This Alas rocket system is designed for fact by tanks, command posts, infrastructure facilities, ships and helicopters. On the basis of an agreement in the area of defence, Serbia will make viscosofistic rockets with new investments in Krusik, Teleoptik, Utva, which will reflect the overall standard of our citizens not only in these three cities: Belgrade, Pančevo and Krusevic, but also in all our citizens. Serbian top military commentator Miroslav Lazanski said this contract with the Emirates is the right thing for Serbia and that it is a real Serbian micro-crossing rocket. The United Arab Emirates also showed interest in the Bumbar carcinogen system. It should be expected to be one of the products on the Emirata market, but not just them, but the whole world. The agreement on co-operation between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the United Arab Emirates covers, according to Mr Dinkic, 13 different areas of co-operation, including agriculture. This is already agreed on a joint investment in agriculture, as well as the lease of agricultural land. It will benefit Serbia's agriculture greatly, as it is in the plan to build a system for irrigation, strengthening river ports, building a cargo centre and employing a larger number of people. It is planned to spend, as we heard today, around 400,000 euros this year for the first 100m euros for the irrigation system and other 100m euros for taking over eight agricultural combinations. It'll be built next to the food factory. By buying the combinations, these eight, the United Arab Emirates are interested in investing in both irrigation and increasing the yields several times. It is also planned to continue investment talks in new technologies, especially around investment in a large chip factory, which would be Serbia's biggest investment in the past 35 years, if this project is realised. It could be a rescue solution for the state of Serbia. It would be a huge move for the state of Serbia if it enters the stage of over-longing and negotiations by summer. A huge amount of energy, will, courage and endurance in this engagement was shown by the first Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, Mr Alexander Vukic. In addition to many obligations in the fight against corruption and crime, this engagement, in my opinion, is for admiration. I note that Mr. Sheik received Mr. Vukic to his house, although it was a work visit. This is considered a special honor and privilege in the Arab world, and today we have heard that jobs are also made for personal friendship. I particularly support the proposal for a bill between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation in the approval of a state export credit for "Serb Railways". Based on this agreement with Russia, several agreements will be signed. There is also an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kuwait Development Fund, which will implement the construction of the first phase of the Belgrade-S Sent railway station. That is why these loans, aimed at "Serb Railways", will help repair the overall picture of the situation on our railways. What kind of picture is that? That picture of the situation on our railways is so worrying to date. Our railways are in a very difficult state. What contributed to that picture? I won't talk about it. Let me just point out that perhaps this loan would go where and before, in addition to the objective circumstances that have affected this poor situation on our railways, there are certain weaknesses in the former leadership of "The Railway of Serbia", which has led this important firm to Serbia's lowest level in the history of railways. One of those weaknesses is riding, corruption of former leadership. Let me point out that the former leadership of the "Serb Railway" spent, believe it or not, 700,000 euros for fuel and car maintenance, which was spent on Serbian citizens' pockets. Believe it or not, because of negligence, the irresponsibility of the former leadership "Serb Railway", a two-m-euro fine was paid to unrealise the loan, so that it might not come to a situation so that this loan would not be realised again, from the pockets of Serbian citizens. I note that the "Serbian Railways" were the leader, that is what Mr. Dinkic knows, in Serbia after the use of subsidies from the budget. In just one year, 2010, they received from the state budget no less than 12.5 billion dinars. The former leadership of the "Serb Railway" spent 126m dinars for lunches and gifts in just one year, according to the state auditor's report, again from Serbian citizens' pockets. Believe it or not, the former leadership of the "Serb Railway" has spent more than 106m dinars per team for one year. For a team in their rooms, besides what I've listed, they spent an additional 20 million dinars, again from the pockets of Serbian citizens. It was also spent only on fair and other events in one year or less than 26 million dinars, again in Serbian citizens' pockets. The cost of only business lunches for one year amounted to 34m dinars, again from the pockets of Serbian citizens. The former leadership of the "Serb Railway" financed holidays in spas and seas, and they used them, except for company employees, and hundreds of people who had nothing to do with "Serb Railways", again from Serbian citizens' pockets. Otherwise, the banish treatment has not been regulated by any act. For services in Banjski treatment, only in one year, 22m dinars were spent, and 18m for vacation in Montenegro, again from Serbian citizens' pockets. (President: I assume you're saying that some previous loans have been unintendedly spent? All right, then keep going. That's what I was going to say, of course, that they've been unintendedly spent and they've spent their credits in the javelin and in the irresponsibility. Therefore, Mr. President of the National Assembly, I call on the MPs to support the new leadership, headed by Mr. Simonovic, who is trying to bring order to this firm. This is only part of the illegals, not to mention the mafia's former leadership of the Serbian Railways. Finally, if the prosecution entered this firm, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am not sure they would find themselves behind the lock not only of the former leadership of the Serbian Railways, but also of the former senior political officials of the Republic of Serbia. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I particularly urge you from the opposition to vote in favour of these agreements, because this will prove that we are for the rapid economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13308	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13309	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, citizens and citizens of Serbia, I will vote with full confidence to confirm an agreement with the UAE that it is bringing new chances to Serbia. To be clear at first, I believe Europe is our house and it is Serbia's most important partner, when it comes to Serbia's European path. I am sure that Serbia has always sinned during its history as it has distanced itself from the EU, as Europe has always sinned when it has not given its hand to Serbia. I'm sure that practice will stop. When we talk about agreements with the UAE, we cannot be guided by eternal friendships or by the deep past of our countries, or by any emotion, but rather by reason and argument. The arguments are clear – Serbia needs investments. No, any investments. Not what they were during one period, when newly-compromised rich people, dirty money, regular and legal auctions, bought businesses all over Serbia to destroy them, to leave workers out of work, and to sell out property. In my town of Leskovac, unfortunately, a lot of companies have been fed up like this. This is about very respectable companies, not for Serbia as partners, but worldwide, for partners around the world. And more than that, this is about one serious, advanced, modern, modern state – UAE, which is behind these investments and through these agreements, is precisely what confirms it. There is no reason why we should be suspicious and ask ourselves: what are these investments doing to us? They bring us a lot. I have another concern from the beginning, when we are dealing with this issue, which is – will we be able to respond quickly enough, efficiently enough, quality enough, and create conditions for these investments to be realised? So I commend those who are seriously working on this, in all the ministries and in all the government, and I hope that you will justify the confidence of the citizens of Serbia when it comes to this. I'm not talking about agriculture and I'm not talking about defense. There is one area I believe represents a real chance for Serbia, a new Serbian dream and an opportunity for our society to turn to the development of a modern knowledge-based society. It's not a European standard, it's an imperative of the entire modern society. I'm talking about the Mubadova company and the potential opportunity to open up a large company in Serbia that will deal with chip production. This company has factories all over the world, from Germany, across Singapore, to America, in which last year it made revenue from incredible 4.6 billion dollars. If they invested in Serbia, it would be worth up to $4 billion. It's a huge investment for Serbia. She is more than that, she is a chance for our young experts, who have left this country, to return to her. Furthermore, she is more than that, she is the opportunity for her dream in Serbia to manifest generations that are now standing, those who are ten years old, 15 years old, small computer experts who grow up in Serbia. I believe it's a real Serbian dream and it's a real chance for Serbia. What I want to commend to Minister Dinkic and the Ministry of Economy, is that they set out to meet that dream and set up a programme to encourage IT industry. It's a program that will allow pay taxes in this area to be lower, so that computer experts can earn money here and not just abroad. It is a programme that will allow grants to be poured into good projects in the IT industry. It's a project that will, above all, allow for the development of education in this area. Finally, in Serbia, we understand that education and economic integration are needed. Finally, in Serbia, we realize that we have a huge unemployment problem, but also a huge problem of unemployment. Almost a third of the unemployed can't get a job. On the other hand, we have an economy that is crying out for modern educated personnel, for people who have modern skills and skills. Those in Serbia don't have enough. So investment in education, directing children to technical and natural sciences, that's what our future is. Skeptics in Serbia are now asking – yes, a chip factory will be built in Serbia. Yeah, we're famous for that. I remind them who the real national heroes of Serbia are. These are children who bring gold Olympic medals to Serbia every year, with mathematical Olympics, with world competitions in physics and other natural sciences. I also remind you of the Petnica Research Centre, which cultivates creative, smart and capable children who are dedicated to science. I remind you of many schools in Serbia that have children who win first place in competitions in our country. We dream of their dream, when we sign this agreement, because we're creating an opportunity for them in their country to develop all their capacities. Ladies and gentlemen, I come from Leskovci. It's a city rarely heard on national media. Last year there was a news report on RTS, and probably no one's heard of it, and now I'm going to tell you. Six Technical School students in Leskovac received numerous recognitions in the country and the region for the invention they made. It's a computer that works in water. They combined the impossible -- electricity, water and software, and they made something new. They're small, they're not small, they're children to me, but they're 18 -- they're young computer experts and entrepreneurs. I want to remind the local authorities in Leskovac to take care of these children and one day, after school, return them to Leskovac. Also, please, Minister Dinkic, remember these names: Miljan Stošić, Lazar Vasic, Nikola Djeric, Aleksandar Angelović and Anica Spiridonović. Perhaps they are the very future experts in the chip company that will work in Serbia. Maybe they're just the future managers in that company. For the opportunity to make their dreams come true in Serbia, for their right to represent their city and their country in the best possible way, for their right to defend their country with knowledge, youth and beauty, I will vote with a full heart to confirm these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13310	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13311	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope, the President-in-Office, that before you the Chairman has conveyed the topics discussed within the framework of the topic, so that you will not deny me for a little broader explanation of certain thesis. Even though I don't know how to say something after such poetic speeches, almost a kumbar show. I will still have to answer some questions asked primarily by MPs and SNS MPs. We don't have an opposition attitude. We have a constructive view on this issue, we are very responsible, given that it is interstate agreements and we are very serious about this issue. I don't think Minister Dinkic has an appologetic performance either, but that the minister is seriously defending the position he came from today and I don't think the criticisms on that side of SNS have grounds. When it comes to "spiritus movens", which you mentioned to the opposition, and you asked what it is, it's a precaution. We are very careful and would like this agreement to be implemented, so that it does not damage the citizens and citizens of Serbia, that investment is quick, efficient and that the first dinars, or dollars, arrive by the end of the year. I hope Minister Dinkic can give us an answer when we can expect first investment. When it comes to some issues, the visit of the defence minister to the four defence ministers of the powerful countries of the world, we heard it last night on one show. On the other hand, we heard the answer that he was very happy to see a guest because he quickly met the wishes of all these ministers. I'm sorry, I think that instead of Miroslav Lazansky, you had a colleague Drecun to quote. He's the best, as far as I know, even if you said it like that, a military analyst. This would be brief when it comes to presenting representatives of the ruling coalition. Right away, I think that all discussions of opposition party representatives were constructive and that there was nothing opposition in them and I don't see that anything that could disrupt and say, by any opposition party, that is against investment and the arrival of foreign capital in our country. For the Democratic Party, I say it is certainly for foreign investment. Sorry, I will repeat what Mr. Stefanovic said, which so far is the only foreign investment in this government's mandate. Investment in an announcement, which we will only be able to realise, but of course we will not be brakers to make it happen until the end. I say again that we expect both the Constitution and the law and everything else to be respected until the end, and I hope that this government, or Minister Dinkic, will do so. It's about four agreements. The most today was the agreement on co-operation between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Arab Emirates, or "Emirata", as some say, but in any case it covers the pre-determined talks in the previous period, perhaps too soon. Perhaps before that, however, it was necessary to ratify these agreements in the National Assembly, but good. Perhaps these agreements can correct and, in some ways, introduce this agreement into the legal system that has been concluded, as we have seen, on the basis of private relationships, relationships, etc., and there is nothing wrong. Every investment, she came in one way or another, is good, if it's not dirty money, if it's not money earned by some of the actions that are illegal. In any case, you will have in that sense a constructive position of DS. Not true, someone mentioned here, that DS or maybe the government in Novi Sad, either in the province or in Belgrade is against these investments. True, Minister Dinkic, I think that when you said you spoke to Mr Pajtic and Mr Jesic, you mean the period after the pre-contract was signed, when this agreement was made, and not before the pre-contract was signed. But it doesn't matter. It is important that these talks were also that, as I understand it, the Duke of Vojvodina had made some proposals for some investments that could be realised in Vojvodina. By the way, I'm going to ask you, the topic is different, but the fact that a peasant in Serbia, in Vojvodina, is unorganized, that they don't have good infrastructure, what about the Cooperatives Act. It was announced in the previous term. I was glad it would be within the mandate of the previous government. I don't see any announcements that he'll be there soon. I think that would be very good if he were in the process, because that would solve certain issues relating to organization in the rural area. We may recognize cooperatives as the rest of socialism. However, they become all over the developed world and are a good way to organize farmers. I will devote myself to an analysis of the pre-negotiation done by the government's Working Group of Vojvodina. I think he is the most qualitative document, which has seen the legal, economic, social, agro-economic and political aspects of this pre-contract. Of course, I don't want to read the whole analysis. It was made by top experts. I think they were very well-intentioned and even basically said that the Working Group supports an initiative relating to foreign investment, which was launched by a pre-contract with respect, of course, to the legislative regulation of the Republic of Serbia. So, the government of Vojvodina's Working Group had nothing against the initiative, which today has been translated into an interstate agreement, but has asked some questions. Some questions have been answered, and some may yet have to be answered. Thus, the question of citizens' rights to property was raised, because they said that the pre-contract does not contain provisions on whether the contract is subject to a state-owned agricultural land and whether there are applications for the return of property. It seems to me that in one agreement, which has been given, the subject cannot be property of restitution. This could have been a way to get rid of that flaw. The second issue asked is the right to equality, i.e. the pre-negotiation of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they said, puts an unequal position on the part of foreign legal persons in the process of obtaining property and the exercise of the right to lease on agricultural land. I'm not sure this has been removed until the end, that this problem has been removed. True, part of the country is excluded from sales, or privatisation, but still part of the land is, in some ways, excluded by a bilateral contract and is practically bought by a company without a public tender. Again, if it is in some broader social interest and if everything is transparent, as counterpart Stefanovic said, if we see a plan of investment soon, if we see a business plan, maybe that problem can be removed too. However, no representatives of AP Vojvodina, the local self-government unit, are involved in the pre-negotiation process. That is why I stressed that I think that these talks were held later, but again I say – it is good that they were led and later, in order to remove some irregularities. I will come up with three more important things from the point of view of the farmers in Vojvodina, thus and farmers in Serbia, and concerning the fact that the AP Vojvodina, as well as local self-government units, should, in the opinion of this Working Group, be part of the ownership of the new company, i.e. that part of the funds, based on all grounds, should be directed towards the AP Vojvodina budget or according to the projects of its public enterprises. Maybe that's when you mentioned "The Duke's Water," it comes true. However, as I understand it, it is a watering loan that the Leaders of Vojvodina should take, if I understand you, Minister. The next thing, in the process of creating a future final contract, representatives of the AP Vojvodina should participate, and before that it is necessary for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to ratify an appropriate international contract. The opinion of experts on professional issues subject to the contract should also be obtained and expert expertise on the structure of investment investments must include investment in irrigation, deforestation, meliration repairs and land quality. There was a working group's view that a representative of the AP Vojvodina should be involved in making a final contract, which is not too late yet, but finally a contract has yet to be made. Finally, I will point out once again that the position of the DS parliamentary group, that if these key issues were important for farmers, it is important for the citizens of Serbia to have a positive response, that the DS would consider the possibility of supporting this agreement and probably in that case supporting it. Again for these reasons, therefore, because it is an investment that finally comes to Serbia in the term of the government, and on the other hand, so that the representatives of the government will not accuse us of obstructing the investment's apartment. But first of all, in order to be respected by the Constitution and the laws, so that one day we do not come into a situation where the next government, or someone from this government, asks the question, did this agreement end in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia. That was briefly in that part. I'd like to ask the minister if he could answer some of these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13312	Thank you. Mr. Atlagic, on what basis are you answering? You have no right to a replica. The word has Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13313	Let me answer some of these questions. Your first question was - when can we expect the first investments? We've literally prepared a draft contract that should be agreed on the basis of a pre-contract with Al Dahra and we're sending it to the Emirates tomorrow. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to suggest that we send it to the province government at the same time, and I absolutely don't think there's any reason, because we've talked about it publicly, there's no details about it, that it's simply a common view of the best solution. Either way, it takes a contract to have two sides of the Emirates and us. I see Serbia as a single country, not making a difference between the republic, the province, the cities, that's all Serbia. In any case, the first investment we can expect is precisely based on this contract with Al Dahra. The contract would be signed by the end of March of this month, so this month, and the agreement itself contains, that the closure of the transaction is done by mid-year, so by the end of the summer, the money will arrive in Serbia related to the establishment of a joint venture, and the purchase of 80% of the stakes in these combinations, while they would immediately take possession of the majority investment. So they're making investments up to half this year, about this agreement with Al Dahra. As far as irrigation is concerned, in other areas, so, not as far as the combineds are concerned, we have sent a proposal to the Abu Dhabi Development Fund. We asked them for 110 million dollars in loans, one of which refers to the cleaning of the irrigation and deforestation channels and the making of new ones. In total, the whole project, together with our resources, would be 20 percent of the project, 80% would be a loan. This year would be 96 and a half million dollars in investment, of which 67 and a half million dollars in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. We will, given that the Republic will participate with 20% in this project, form an operational team to implement this project. Mr. Agriculture Minister and I will be headed by the government, and implementation will be in the hands of the "Serbian" for central Serbia's territory, and the "Vojvodnavod" for the territory of Vojvodina as foreseen by the law. What we have also predicted is independent supervision, because we will have control so that we can monitor the implementation and spending of these funds and that supervision will not be related either to the "Vojvod", nor to the "Serbian" or to the province, nor to the Republic, but we will engage the professional management of the company that will oversee this process and report it to the Republic and the province government. He's talking about public infrastructure works for irrigation. What we have sent to the Abu Dhabi Development Fund related to the territory of Vojvodina has exclusively come to the proposal of the Regional Secretariat for Agriculture and Water. So we didn't interfere with the selection of priorities, the selection of projects, these are the projects I've read about which there are currently built feasibility studies. As far as central Serbia is concerned, Serbia has also sent us projects related to the Sword, because they have explained to us that this is the only thing currently ready, but that this is the beginning because it cannot be physically made more investment than these 97m dollars in one year. We need to prepare for next year to have continuity. If we invested 100 million dollars each year, we would have made significant progress in agriculture, because we haven't, for a long time, invested almost anything in irrigation systems. The loan will be taken by the Republic of Serbia, so neither the Vojvodina nor the "Serbian" will be in debt, but by the Republic of Serbia, and we will place the loan on the whole territory of Serbia. One part of this first loan will also be for long-term loans to buy equipment for all farmers in Serbia, and we will not condition what type of equipment. Of course, they are expected to, where a primary and secondary network is made, have the need to install a territorial network in their fields, to lead water to the fields, but this will include the possibility of purchasing agriculture and all other investments in agriculture. It would be a kind of revolving loan, because we would place it on a 10-year-old with interest that would be very low. We specifically asked the Emirate people to grant us a loan from the Republic with interest of only 0.5% a year. I don't know if we can negotiate that. This would be the cheapest loan this country has ever taken, so that farmers will have low interest, because it will be approved through banks that will be physically approved by these loans. We simply want the ultimate interest for peasants to be as low as possible and to be 10 years old, with a period of up to three years, which means it's really convenient and we believe it's going to be a great deal of interest. As far as participation is concerned, it's clear that this is a project that gives a chance and requires the participation of everyone here. There are simply some projects taking place in Belgrade's territory, some in central Serbia's territory, some in Vojvodina's territory, and everything should be included. What Mrs Plassic said will be the biggest challenge here is for us to be effective in implementing what we get. Mr. Vukic and I first had a meeting with Prince Sheikh Muhammad in Abu Dhabi in October. Then sheik said if there's anything we can do in a few months, you're serious. We broke, I have to tell you, let's get this over with. We may not have consulted everyone, but we wouldn't have made it to do all this if we had one of our own, another, third forums in Serbia, because there would never be an end to the discussion. Anyway, we're here, there's an interstate agreement, it's signed. Based on the interstate agreement, it's all moving. So there's a co-operation after that. We believe that these agreements will be signed after each other. Something's gonna go faster, something's gonna go slower. They'll open the bank in the spring. We'll see what the initial capital will be. One of my expectations is that it will be a multiple amount of capital censorship. On the other hand, I think we'll have a quick decision to invest in the port of Panchevo. This is where we expect the city of Panchev to show its readiness, because this is the property that belongs to the city, that, at a decent price, not excessively, the Emirates, but it will get jobs and investments, will have the best river port in the region. I failed to say, they are interested and to capitalize on JRB which is otherwise a company that is not on subsidies and works well, but simply, they should buy new ships. The idea is to invest some 40m euros in the purchase of new ships, hire Serbian shipyards and thus help develop. What we've been thinking about is how to put the project into operation, thinking about other industries, because if it's being invested in irrigation and draining channels, I've been asking around, our water industry operation has equipment at the level of 30 years ago. That should see if any of our factories can help produce that irrigation and disposal mechanism, and the October 14th factory has an outdated program, I don't know if there's a chance of modernizing anything. Also, the irrigation equipment itself, once produced "North" from Subotica, now no longer exists, further, "The Hawk" in Kruševec, and I don't know if there are any companies, because we would stimulate Serbian producers to take advantage of the opportunity and that something that isn't great sophistication, which is irrigation equipment, might start to produce. To conclude, we can expect the first investment this spring. The Cooperative Act, not to miss the answer, is also ready, will go to the government in the next month, and in the second quarter will be here before you MPs. As far as participation is concerned, everyone who wants to work is welcome to co-operate with the government of the Republic of Serbia and this is meant for the province government as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13314	Zoran Babic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13315	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, said: "A meeting of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the People's Parliament to another MP and to use offensive expressions." The previous speaker, of course, I do not mean the exhaustive address of Minister Dinkic and I thank him for that, I think that the snide expression of accentation in the speech of the MP, or whether it is said to be - Emirati or "Emirate" is just a sign that someone does not have enough arguments, and when someone does not have enough arguments, then reaches for personal insults. I don't think anyone in this room should be ashamed of the end they come from. I'm proud of my colleagues from Pirot, Vranj, Leskovci, and all of us who carry some feature in our speech from the area from which we come. On the other hand, I really expected something more creative criticism than that fellow, so that he rebelled over which the bank was founded and why the Emirates set up a bank in Serbia. I could understand that he suggested that these transactions go through the Vojvodina Development Bank to cover up all those holes that were created in the Vojvodina Development Bank business and get some credit without cover again. I can understand that. I really can't understand these criticisms and I can't let them. In the end, what really bothered me, that if certain conditions were created, that group would eventually consider whether it would support this arrangement. We make these arrangements as a state, as a responsible government with the United Arab Emirates in order to start production both in agriculture and in the dedicated industry and what we do and what is important to us, understanding of Serbia's citizens and supporting Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13316	I fully agree with you, Mr. Babice, and I ask all the MPs to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mr. Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13317	The Honorable Chairman, Article 106, because we who at some point defend the spelling of the Serbian language, which has nothing to do with the traditional accent, are exposed here by the previous speaker who unconsciously and out of ignorance is the rightful man, Vuk Karadzic, and the usual accent, and you allow it, and yet you say - I agree with you. What's embarrassing is that the MP said that a word is spoken in a certain way, unless their knowledge and education is a mockery, then it's the right face of these, if they talk about holes, because God won't block their father's holes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13318	Mr. Stefanovic, I do not agree with you, given that someone imitates one of the MPs and uses the way Mr. Veselinovic did, and that is why I agreed with Mr. Babic. Mr. Atlagic, you want a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13319	I'm advertising Article 103 because I think, the chairman, that you violated that article because you did not give me the right to reply, because the previous speaker, I think of Mr. Vesenovic, called me. (President: Mr Atlagic, Article 103 does not regulate the right to replication. No, but you didn't give me the right to reply, you said I had no right... (President: Article 103 does not regulate the right to replica, so when calling on the Rules of Procedure, keep an eye on which member you are calling. You have violated Article 103 and I appeal to you, you have violated it. (President: Why did I break? Because you didn't give me your word, you just told me – you don't have the right to reply. When I asked for a replica on the gentleman's discussion... (President: Mr. Atlagic, I keep trying to explain to you that Article 103 regulates the violation of the Rules of Procedure, not the right to replication. Yes, you've broken the Rules of Procedure, and that's what I'm saying. (President: So I violated Article 104 because I did not give you the right to reply, right? Here you go. Are you giving me the right to a replica? Injury of the Rules of Procedure, good. You broke it, I answered the line and you gave me no explanation, but you just said – you have no right to a replica, and I give you an explanation in two sentences. The previous speaker spoke to me in a disdainful, offensive way, that I was speaking in the spirit of Kumrovska School and that I was not quoting Drecun, but Mr. Lazanski. Please, apparently all the citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission and the MPs sitting here, you do not give me the right to replication. I'm sorry, it's not my fault that you don't listen to what the MPs say, because that was offensive.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13320	Mr. Atlagic, if you could tell, I was in the part where you were saying I wasn't in the O.R., so I apologize. If you've recognized yourself at Kumrovsky School, I'll give you the right to a replica and go ahead, sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13321	Maybe my discussion, the DS gentleman who provoked me, was poetic and said it was poetic, but it's true. I'd be glad if you'd denied any information if it wasn't true, not only that it was poetic. Secondly, by quoting Mr. Lazansky, not Drecun, and I could have been Mr. Drecun, because Mr. Dracun belongs to the best military analysts, as well as Mr. Lazanski, and to tell you, if you didn't know, there are 20 books written in military analysis. Furthermore, as you objected to being in the spirit of Kumrovska school, I did not finish that school, and your greatest privilege in life would have been to finish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13322	Mr. Dragan Shormaz, in the name of SNS, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13323	As authorised, since several SNS MPs have been mentioned, advocates, and in one part my speech regarding the visit of the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Vukic and the Minister of Defence in four very strong ministries in the world, and I, on behalf of the parliamentary group, must replicate. I mean, it's true, that in the first six months, and no one did, the United States, Great Britain, Germany and Russia were visited, and there was this comment that someone on a show last night said that the demands were met immediately after that. Who? Some reporters. Whose request? U.S. or Russia's demands? Whose demands have been met? I can understand that the opposition, I was both the government and the opposition and all the water in political life and all the furnaces burned me and cooked me, I know very well how the opposition behaves and how the government behaves, but this is just so weak. I'd tell my DS colleagues they need to work a little harder. Vanity is the devil's favorite sin. The opposition has a right to caution. When 80% of citizens support what Mr. Vukic is doing, it is logical that he will also be invited to negotiate with Serbia, because this means that Serbia is stable and that these countries will negotiate with the government of the Republic of Serbia co-operation in the area of the military industry. But also, where was the caution when 10% of Vojvodina's territory was sold to Saric's companies? Where did he launder two million euros in cocaine money? Well, only when the American DEA discovered the clan, did we find out that this money was purchased in 2008 by a country in Vojvodina, and now the problem is 10,000 hectares for the Emirates. (President: Time. ) Indeed, it is such a very weak argument and that is why the citizens of Serbia understand and support the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13324	Thank you. Mr. Veselinović, on what grounds are you answering? (Janko Veselinović, from town: Replica. Mr. Veselinović, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13325	Thank you. Four SNS deputies were called, although I was not in any way offensive to the party. The fact that someone found themselves in the Kumrovsky school story, that's his problem. But I don't think your president's asking you to, I don't think he's asking you to make praises at every session, he's a man far away, he can't hear you. We were very constructive in our discussions. The proposal that your party president, the first Deputy Prime Minister, submitted to this assembly, we said that if our demands were respected, we would support you, precisely so that this first investment that came to Serbia, and you promised many of them, would be realised and not be prevented, as you would say, from the DS. So focus on the subject that's on the agenda today. It was pretty uncomfortable listening to your praises, pretty uncomfortable, unserious. The gentleman who last spoke said we weren't ready. We've read all four agreements. We realized that three agreements have the basis to support them without any conditions. The fourth agreement has a problem and I said which. I said we'd back him up if some things were removed. I think through Mr Dinkic's discussion, it was said that some of our suggestions would be respected and we would treat the contract that way. So, you take care when you talk about percentages of 80%, 90%, 100%, so little kids don't believe it. I don't want to go down to such a low level, don't, you're flying.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13326	Thank you. The word has Borislav Stefanovic, a replica on behalf of the DS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13327	Indeed, I will try as soon as possible after my colleague, Veselinovic. He's said a lot already, and I don't think it's correct. I don't even know where the ruling majority comes from right now, the situation in which they point to us, given that we've pointed to the obvious shortcomings of one of the agreements of best intention, but the real face soon came out. So whoever says otherwise, that slander and lies, even though it's not 90% for Alexander Vukic, you're the destroyers of this country, and we still have to listen to your literary works here, on the subject of how much I love the president. Have a little consideration, first of all, according to the agreements, not to us personally. Dear colleague, since Drecun is not here, you could have mentioned General Momir Stojanovic... (President: Mr Stefanovic, do not address the MP directly. I'm sorry. So you could have mentioned General Momir Stojanovic, who is also an excellent military analyst. We're defending you from you. That's the problem, and you're writing literary papers. They're gonna get those plaques? So this is an unserious situation, that a fellow MP talks – I've burned myself in many furnaces. Think about a lot of parties where he's been? Well, wait for those people, and then as the conclusion of all this - DS versus something. How? Where did you get such ideas? So in this assembly, it is no longer possible to say anything, point out a mistake, without standing up immediately and saying – you are against Serbia because you are not in 90%, 100%, 50%, those who support Vukic. It's a dangerous thesis. Dangerous. I'm saying it for the citizens and for you, dear colleagues, I don't speak to personally. I think the deal had certain things that we're looking for answers to. That answer was partly received from the minister. Right away, we swear we're not against foreign investment and fighting corruption and crime. Is it okay now? Can we talk more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13328	Thank you. The word is Dragan Shormaz, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13329	It's very simple. First, something was said that I didn't say. It's obvious you're not listening very well, let alone understand. So, I never said for a moment that someone has no right to criticise. Honestly, I don't care if he's listening or how far Alexander Wolfie is. I didn't speak to him personally, even though I said ratings, which is a fact, but they listen to Serbian citizens. What I said was that regardless of your criticism, Serbian citizens judge something we do in a completely different way. So they trust us more than you do critics. Critics, I've just addressed the name of the criticism you've given, about the land lease, about the sale of land, etc. It's interesting that nothing else is criticized, but that. In that first speech, I made it clear, I doubt it's about you wanting to protect and you criticizing it, and it's not just you, and some of the others in the opposition did it. I doubt you want to protect some who previously bought land, now they have companies and even from some other countries, because they are afraid of competition from the United Arab Emirates, because on that land they are processing, the yield is likely to be much higher than the one they are processing. Some of them are also hit by what we call fighting crime and corruption. So you have the right to criticise, you have the right to be careful, you have the right to doubt. We have the right to praise, we have the right to propose to adopt this, and it is for citizens to judge who is right and that will be said in the elections. Then you'll see percentages.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13330	Thank you. The word is Zoran Babic, a replica in the name of SNS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13331	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam President, I really want this session to enter into a normal course and to bring this topic that is very important for both the economy and the citizens of Serbia to an end in principle. I'm trying to believe when someone swears they're not against investment, against all of it, but then they're still in my ears to answer some similar oaths to the former party president, to the current party president. I don't know when those vows are true. We don't need oaths. Unfortunately, there have been worse things in this House. We need a consensus here on the most important strategic matters. We need what I was saying in the morning part of the session. We need a connection point. We need topics where we will all support each other, send a message to the citizens of Serbia that there is a chance that people in Serbia really live better than they do today, to live decent people in the 21st century in a beautiful country in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13332	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13333	Excellent exposure, fellow Babic, except in one part. Swearing to the former president. Is that what you mean, Mr. Babice, when you swore in the church of Seselj? Do you mean that former president? Sometimes when I think you don't have a badge badge with a proud flag of Serbia, your words always remind me that the badge is somewhere. So everything you said stands. Just that part where you wanted to question our motives, our views on politics and everything else, you slipped into a field where you couldn't be consistent. I can do the other one, but you can't. Not you personally, but your client. That's why you see when a sword rises, then you get sword and you get hurt. By the way, Saric's country in Vojvodina was seized, Mr. Shormaz, during our government. She's been taken and seized, she's doing the right thing. Now we need to see who this same Charic from this government was seeing. You must, like us, take care of the argument. He can come back as a boomerang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13334	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13335	Very short. I knew he couldn't take your word for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13336	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13337	Where did you mention Charic and me and that directly? So in 2009, in this house, I was talking about privatising land by Darko Saric and the clan, about "Metalsbanci", today's Vojvodine Development Bank, on this co-operation. It is true that these privatisations were annulled, which Darko Saric made with his dirty money in Vojvodina and, I repeat, bought 10% of the territory of Vojvodina. It's true they've been cancelled, but only after the action of the U.S. D.E., otherwise the anti-drugs and narcotics agencies. When they were discovered, when they began to be chased around the world, only then did the government in Serbia find out who Darko Saric was, and then, of course, turned out to be sold to them in 2008. So, at the time of the same government that she was then canceling. Take a closer look at this history of events, and you will see that it happened all the time during the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, and buying the country and cancelling privatisation. Those are the failed combinations that are now to be sold. All I said was it's weird that there was no caution at the time and there was no criticism, and today there's criticism. And whoever, from that government, from that party, co-operated with Darko Saric, will certainly not be protected by the institutions of the Serbian state that function today thanks to the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia, I may now be vexing you again, but above all thanks to the energy, courage and will of a man in that government, which is Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13338	Thank you. Mr. Atlagic, on what basis do you want the word? (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Replica. Who mentioned you now, I apologize? (Marko Atlagic, from the post: Mr Stefanovic addressed me directly. I really didn't hear. Here's what he mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13339	Madam Chairman, it's as if you have something against my replicas. It breaks down on me all the time. Believe it or not, but here's what Serbian citizens see. I'll just say two sentences. I will not speak personally, but as an MP of the DS who, not the first, but the second, who mentioned my poetic speech again. Mr. Ambassador, this is no longer the Assembly as it used to be. (President: Don't speak directly, please, to the People's MP. This is not the congregation that used to be. In this assembly on every agenda, MPs are seriously preparing themselves. I'd be very glad that you denied any information about that robbery at the "Serb Railways". It seems to hurt you, but unfortunately, it's the state auditor's report. Secondly, I could have called Mr. Stojanovic. Do you mind if he's a general? And he's a military analyst. Third, what you said about giving our president his thanks, there's no need. We have something nice to say about our party president and the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. Don't be jealous that you can't do that about yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13340	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13341	Dear Professor, you always make me laugh. We're not going to compete in the quiz as long as the kids know about the leader and the leader, but we're going to compete to remind you that the new director of the Railways has done a really big thing. In fact, he had a street called after his family in his place. I think it's the right way to recover our ruined railroad. In addition to what you've listed, you could also say that as a man first did, he gave one street to the Simonovic family, that it's such a beautiful street called and so moves into the reform of large systems. But you're a human tank, so I'm not surprised, but I'm sorry about the citizens of Serbia. Otherwise, it's a very fun show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13342	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13343	We're going back to the same sentence. When the arguments disappear, that's where personal insults begin. If colleagues from one daily newspaper, owned and controlled by certain mayors, had been better informed, they would have seen that the Simonovic brothers' street had three houses and all three houses were Simonovic's families and that street was built and built by the involvement of the Simonovic family. The decision to call Simonovic's Street was made by a unanimous decision by Grocka, where you are also participating in power. It's a complete truth for the public. Don't use half-information.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13344	Thank you. Now let's get back to the agenda. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13345	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I could have taken an annual vacation while these replicas lasted. It is no secret that we have found a completely devolved state in every sense – territorial, national, moral, humiliated and crushed, a country with abandoned infrastructure, a country in which when you take the highway, you have to bypass the holes and, looking past the highway from Subotica to Leskovec, you will find two smokers. That's the condition it was. Two factory chimneys were all smoked in Serbia, with one not having production, but only so much kept the heat in the oven, as it is more expensive to re-activate the oven than to maintain that heat and consume energy. Two factory chimneys that were smoking. There's a criminal here who's been dealing with crime outside of this country, selling what he's been selling and bringing money from crime into this country. I'll dare say, no matter what he's a criminal, that he was still their best investor, because he was getting the money from crime outside, and he was bringing it in. What do we say about those who were involved in crime inside, taking money and taking it out? How much worse are they than what was involved in crime outside, and the money was brought in? I'll talk about infrastructure in the first part. The devastation of our infrastructure is a common knowledge. If you take the highway and don't break the wheel, if you start at night, especially if you start at some time before autumn or before spring, then you're lucky. If you accidentally broke the wheel, the traffic safety law was changed, it's your fault that you didn't adjust your speed, no matter what you got into a hole that was half a foot deep. It's not a problem that the infrastructure has been abandoned, the railways have been abandoned, the problem is that this country has a public debt with interest rates of over 25 billion. For these 25 billion former regimes, he didn't even build a decent infrastructure. The total debt of the country, economy, state and population is over 50 billion with interest. So behind them are actions, someone would say misdemeanors, which future generations will try to pay off. That's the condition we found. The condition of the railroads was a horror to God. If Anna Karenina had decided to kill herself by throwing herself at our railroad, she'd rather be killed by a pillar that would have fallen by the track than come across a train. He who goes by the line of fire, he could have been able to take a comfortable nap, one vacation, one bear's dream, without being afraid that the train would come. To sleep from night till morning without the train from Belgrade to Lykovec coming. That was the situation on our railroad. Travelers better if the railways shared bicycles instead of subsidies, I guarantee that on the Belgrade-Bar track they will be able to tour trains for which no small funds have been allocated. I think billions of railway subsidies have been paid off, and if that railroad hadn't been able to... The theme is railways. We're taking out a loan to fix what someone who's already taken out of the loan hasn't fixed, to get money into "Serb Railways," and our trains have been like that to make bikes with ease of past. Not to mention sports cyclists, I'm talking about the common ones. Our stripes have been worn out before, but in the last 12 years, it's been the ruin of God. As for the other agreements, or construction of a railway station in Prokop, there is nothing to add, so loans are being withdrawn for infrastructure, now I can't not vote for it. It would be a good idea to give the infrastructure, the roads under concession in 2000, and to be in charge of agriculture, the food industry, new plants, new jobs, etc. Unfortunately, the definition was to take up loans, build an infrastructure that wasn't built, and we found the state, the way we found it, and the money in the economy wasn't coming. The result is the loss of 450,000 jobs in the economy. So if the loans were taken for production, and we gave the infrastructure into concession, today we'd have both, so, we'd have developed economy, we'd have railroads, we'd have roads, we'd have goods, we'd have our goods, we'd have nothing to drive those tracks. As for these agreements with the Arab Emirates, I support three agreements. I've got a backup on the fourth. My reserve is principled. I was against the idea that foreigners could buy land in Serbia. I was against the British, I was against the Hungarians, I was against the Croats, I'm talking about companies that came from Hungary, Croatia, Britain, Ireland, came to Vojvodina, bought the country during the former government in a hidden or less disguised way and thus came to land in Serbia, or Vojvodina. I think it's been sold over 500 square miles. So the country is lost by usurpation, occupation and sale. When it's usurped, you can go back to court, when it's occupied, you can get rid of it, when it's sold, it's definitely sold, so there's no vomiting. During the former regime, more than 50,000 acres of orcs, the most fertile orans in Vojvodina were sold to foreigners. I'll understand this victim, if she's of greater interest. The victim of the former regime had no interest, therefore, in buying the country at cheaper prices, so that it would be resold at far higher prices. Those tycoons that have more than 150,000 hectares of the country just wait five, six years for the country's price to go up and then sell it at 50 times the price they bought during the former regime. What's bothering me here is a few things. There was talk of poor productivity, there was talk of low exports, and there were talk of subsidies that were allegedly misused. As for subsidies, at 232,000 issued in the lease of state hectares, the state received five billion in the last year, and for subsidies on that same surface it gave two and a half billion. So it's not worth paying someone an average hectare to pay 200 euros, rent, and to withdraw a subsidy of 12,000 dinars, which amounted to slightly more than 100 euros. As far as productivity is concerned, Serbian agriculture currently has incentives that are at least five times smaller per hectare than Croats. It is true that Croatia's exports per hectare are far higher, but it is also true that at 800,000 working oraries, the Croats total their agrarian budget, amounting to almost eightm euros. We total out little more than 400m euros at four million hectares of agricultural land. So the premiums are subsidies distributed in Croatia, and especially in the EU they are far greater than in Serbia. Moreover, today is seven years since the death of Slobodan Milosevic. We who fought against him thought that when the government changed, all that was recovered from it in the 1990s would be returned to agriculture. In the 1990s, agriculture lost momentum because agricultural products were sold several euros a pound, ten times below the price, for sanctions and everything else. It was agriculture that endured all the burden of social peace, military and economic pressures that our country was exposed to, and we thought that the future government would appreciate it after 2000 and return it to agriculture. That didn't happen. You can't make a big export out of that exhausted farm if you don't invest in it. Out of the total of over 50 billion, as much as the economy, the state and population of only 385 million are placed in agriculture. That's 0.8% of our total debt. How do you think agriculture is making progress if it's only 385m euros or slightly less than 1%? Such agriculture cannot progress without investment. I call on all the investments in agriculture but I will dare propose another model in addition to this agreement that I think is good. The first thing to do is to denationalize and return to the physical extent of what can be returned to farmers. The country was not created by falling from heaven, but by kidnapping from 1945 to 1953 from private farmers or farmers whose fathers or grandfathers had the land. Restitution should be carried out in the extent to which the law provides for it. Everything else, I think there are over 60,000 hectares, should be divided into agricultural holdings on a 20 to 30-year-old loan. If you give it to them for 10,000 euros per 30 years, the state will receive 200m euros each year. The 200m euros should be invested by the state in repaying a five-billion-dollar loan. You invest those five billion in agriculture as loans and they'll pay you back both. Your land credit will be returned and, on the other hand, through increased agricultural production, you will be given back everything you invest in agriculture, in irrigation, in infrastructure, in livestock farms, green farms for energy production, etc. It is my suggestion that you take after this agreement and allow the family owners to reach 20 hectares of land. So you will provide 30,000 families and they will have something to make business, and the state will not be damaged, each year they will receive 200m euros with which they will be able to service a 30-year loan that can be at least five billion euros. I'd like to compete in the future who bought what we bought and who we borrowed from, not compete in what was who borrowed it and what was who sold it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13346	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13347	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has long been no such set of laws found in this assembly, which, when adopted, and I'm sure will be adopted, will create a legal basis for the launch of a very significant investment cycle. How to convince investors to come to your country is a question that almost all governments in the world are asking today, and I am sure that a small number of these governments know the answer to that question. How do we convince the United Arab Emirates to invest in Serbia if we ask a question? We have received the answer to this question from Mr Dinkic and Vukic, who signed the agreements on behalf of the Government and who are offering us today. I wouldn't talk much about these agreements, about what they bring, because so much of what's positive today is said. Of course, I wouldn't take what negatively into account because I don't think it's relevant. I can only say that the URS provide maximum, unreserved support to these agreements and all that preceded all those pre-contracts and all that will result from the adoption of these agreements in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I would say something about two laws concerning credit, which are designed to revitalise and invest in Serbian railways, and whenever we talk about borrowing our country, we have to approach very seriously and very responsiblely, especially when it comes to Serbian railways, because we have many negative experiences from the previous period. The first association when we mention Serbian railways is the first delay, cold wagons in the winter period, canceled trains, the fact that a large number of committees, first of all in goods transport, abandoning the use of railway services is something that is most interested in the citizens of Serbia, the high subsidies this country gives to Serbian railways. Serbian railways today are in very poor shape, thanks first to reduced economic activity, and thus to reducing the need for rail services, but on the other hand, many times mentioned by the company's poor organisation, poor management, poor staff policy, social policy, but we cannot say, and very small, minimal investment in infrastructure. All of this led to one, let's say, a devastating situation on the railroad. Today, we have heard many times all of these devastating facts that of 3,800 kilometers, half of them are freeways, and the other half are ruined, devastated railways, that only 32% of the railroad is electrified, that only 7% of the track has two tracks, that only 45% of the rails have a 22.5-ton axle load allowed, while on the other 30% of the track this load is below 16 tonnes. Allowed speed goes 100 kilometers to only 3.2% of the track. So much for that story about the legendary Serbian high-speed railroads. There are still many of these negative facts that indicate the state of the Serbian railways today. As for the available rolling stock, 480 locomotives, 8,500 freight wagons, 550 passenger cars, which are mostly not correct and ready for traffic, clearly state in the rolling stock. In recent years, 320 seats in total length of 535km have been introduced on Serbia's railways, representing 16% of all railways, up to 10km per hour. A modest 168m euros has been invested in modernising railway infrastructure in the last decade. The question arises – do Serbia need railways and what kind of Serbia do railways need? When we look at the forecasts of the EU, as far as rail traffic is concerned, and in general the need for transport services, the need for transport services is estimated to increase by 40% by 2030 and the need for transport services in goods by 80% by 2050. The need for passenger transport will also increase 34% by 2030 and 51% by 2050. The European Union has made clear its position on the future of the railways. As early as 1991, through the Railway Directives, and later by adopting the first package in 2001 and by adopting the fourth railway package last year, the EU made it clear to all its members that it is necessary to affirm rail transport as one very efficient, safe, secure form of traffic, which is compatible with other modes of traffic, and most importantly at the moment, a kind of traffic that is very friendly towards the environment. All this says that the Serbian railway is at a very difficult moment, a difficult situation and clearly says that many arguments are why it should be invested first in railway infrastructure. We are talking today about a Russian loan that will first, as we have repeatedly said, be used for diesel electric locomotives, diesel motor locomotives for certain shares, first railways from Belgrade to Panchev, construction of second track and electrification. All of this clearly indicates that it is necessary to invest in railway infrastructure as well. These are significant funds that have not been available to railways in recent decades, but besides investment in infrastructure, rail management must change its approach to managing this company, it must give up some habits and only then will this infrastructure investment system be a burden, but will be part of the development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13348	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13349	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a few agreements. There is nothing questionable about any such important international agreement being supported by DS representatives. To me, the most significant proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Arab Emirates is. It is also important that when such laws are written, the arguments are more specific. I will only read the explanation of the Agreement on Co-operation, in which it says it is based on convergence and harmony with the common belief of the leadership of the two countries in the principles of peaceful co-existence between the peoples and nations of the world and the need for co-operation between the countries in order to achieve international peace, etc. It reminds me of some conventions from earlier times. As far as the meetings are concerned, we are witnessing that ministers travel around the world to negotiate agreements. Who wants to know who's involved in these deals? Were representatives of the AP Vojvodina, representatives of local self-government, representatives of the Chamber of Commerce involved in such talks? What is missing for Serbia, that is what countries have in the environment, and above all Croatia, it is a national strategy for foreign investment. The next important thing is what Serbia can offer potential investors. It's, first of all, wood processing, biomass, food exports, water exports. It's very interesting that I come from a region where there's an acid water factory called Deep, which produces acid water, and that's what an interesting and important product is for Arab countries. I don't know if one of the delegation's representatives mentioned it in the talks. What interests me is what the delegation was defined to offer these two combinations that you mentioned, Mr. Minister, was it the wish of an Emirat representative, or was it the government's offer? What's missing from this law that's in front of the MPs today? First of all, there are a lot of things that we don't understand. The first is what my colleagues said, and that is how many people will be employed, which are accompanying documents, which our business entities will co-operate with Arab companies, all international contracts must be transparent and accessible to the public. What else is important to me in these agreements, and what interests me is, what do farmers receive? What exactly does the state of Serbia get? What exactly do local self-government get? Opening a bank, under what conditions? When a new law on cooperatives is passed, we've heard that before. What will the funds be from Abu Dhabi Fund? On what terms? What's the grace period going to be? How much interest will there be? Will the interest be 4%, 5%? Does that suit our private entrepreneurs? Co-operation in sport, the United Arab Emirates are known in golf, and I don't know how much Serbia can mate with them. Media cooperation – which media? Health research centres – in which areas? What do we offer the Emerits about workers? I'm afraid, and of course I commend Fiat's investment, but what's interesting for all our private entrepreneurs is that there was a grant per worker there of 10,000 euros. I will mention a municipality in Vojvodina called The Tower and where there are 1,200 private entrepreneurs - imagine giving them 10,000 euros per worker, they would have 1,200 more employees, they would have taken down more people from the employment records. Any such agreement, every law is connected to another, and if the situation in Serbia is known to be very bad, it is only 0.6% of enterprises that fall into the so-called so-called business. big businesses, and if all the other micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, I think that the state, in addition to foreign investments, has to pay enough attention to our people who do this work. I repeat, for all of them, as well as foreigners who invest, it is very important to subsidize jobs, to take care of young people who are employed, and to the middle generation who is a victim of transition – will there be any subsidies? Of course, interest rates are important. It's not the same if the interest rate is 1%, or 4% to 5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13350	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13351	You weren't listening. I have already said that the Abu Dhabi Development Fund approves long-term loans for at least 20 years, with a period of start of about five years, and the interest rate is in no case higher than 2.5% per year on a fixed basis. Which, we're trying to negotiate for this part that would be loans to our farmers, that our country's rate is 0.5%. So they're more favourable than this Kuwaiti fund and this Russian loan, anyway. In addition, when we conclude the loan, it will also be at ratification at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, just like this Russian and Kuwaiti. I don't know, and I don't understand that indiscipline. It's always said now - you haven't consulted the circuit government in the last seven to eight months. How much was the province government involved in the NIS contract because NIS is based in Novi Sad? No one from the province government was in the NIS negotiations. Borko Stefanovic negotiated, I know that. He was head of the negotiating team and is not from the province government. I'm sure I know that, as in the Department of Foreign Affairs. There were people from the Ministry of Economy, and there were other people from the Ministry of Energy, but no one from the province government. How it didn't bother you then, and now, all of a sudden, for what we're doing, we need to consult for every step of the way. I mean, you're a little out of line. Of course, the province needs to be informed and we need to talk about all this. However, this is about the property of combinations that do not bloom roses, but which have 30m euros in debts, which have failed and not exactly the people of the province's government have been kidnapped to help those combined. No one was stopping them before we made an arrangement with the Emirates and found a solution for them. We're looking for a solution, and we still resent why we're looking for a solution and for not consulting the province government. When there was a problem, somehow we can't share successes without sharing problems. It's simple, we should share each other. One more thing. Tell all entrepreneurs in The Tower that anyone from any other Serbian city can get up to 10,000 euros per newly employed worker, if they have such a programme to employ more than 50 people and will lay down a bank guarantee for each euro of incentives received. These are the conditions that all these others have received. Both domestic and foreign entrepreneurs, under the same conditions, have won since the start of the programme since 2005, but no one gets without a bank guarantee. Whoever has such a product and such a company can give a bank guarantee can - however, 10,000 euros per new employee is given only to the automotive industry and the IT sector, for the two sectors. For everyone else we gave, depending on the development of the area. So there's no discrimination there, and that was a little disinformation in public. Entrepreneurs say -- why don't they give us 10,000 euros, so we can do that? No one's stopping anyone from competing, but they have to give a bank guarantee. That's about what -- we could do anything, and in fact, when it comes to being serious, it turns out that someone can and can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13352	The word is Radoslav Radovanović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13353	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I don't think there's any need for anxiety. I'm one of the very constructive MPs who asked some questions, but you didn't answer all my questions. In addition to the province administration, I mentioned local self-government, and I mentioned representatives of the Chamber of Commerce. Besides, what I'm curious about is why these two combinations were chosen. If it is known that there are many failed cooperatives in Serbia and there are a lot of state countries. So, who ordered it to be these two combinations. It is simply one question that I have the right to and to which every MP and even under the law of the availability of information is entitled. How were those conversations going? How did that happen? What are the guarantees that this agreement will succeed? Who will be responsible if something fails in this agreement? Finally, I think it's time for responsibility in Serbia. So if something is promised and it is in the stenographic notes in the congregation, someone should also bear responsibility after a few years if some projects fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13354	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13355	There's no secret there. So, from the very beginning, we've been leading the negotiations on behalf of the government, Mr. Vukic and I, and then the government has formed resolution teams. For each of these areas, a special team. A special team is for the defence area where Mr. Djordjevic, the state secretary on the team, then Yugoslavia Petkovic from SDPR, Miloradovic also from SDPR and defence minister adviser Mr. Sinisa Mali. They are responsible for the defence portfolio, i.e. for co-operation in the area of defence. For co-operation with Mubadal, the task force is run by Jasna Matic for information technologies. I personally run what is related to banking and co-operation in the area of agriculture irrigation, JAT and everything else. But they are among the resolution groups and there are representatives in these groups within all ministries. So we teamed up doing all this. Responsibility for the failures and responsibility of the entire government, responsibility for successes and merits are the merits of the entire government. Someone of course contributed more, and someone less, but we're not going to separate either responsibility or success. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13356	Thank you. Mr. Milovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13357	You haven't answered one more question, and it's about the national strategy. When a national investment strategy will be adopted, because we will wait for the Minister's travels, the government's representative to bring investors here. So is there a clear national strategy? What is it that Serbia needs? What is Serbia offering? What possible potential investors can come here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13358	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13359	I forgot to answer, there are no two combinations that are in this contract, but there are eight, plus Karajordjevo, so nine in all. As far as the national strategy is concerned, there is a programme and a strategy for Serbia's industrial policy, it was adopted in 2010. On this basis, we will now propose for a public debate and later for the adoption of the government and an action plan for Serbia's re-industrialisation. There's been a debate since Wednesday. At that with the professional public at the Economic Forum in Kopalnik. As for another strategy that we intend to make together with entrepreneurs and privates, it is a strategy of Serbia's exports, or a substitution of imports, so that we can see with one analysis of what it is that imports are currently being made, and could produce domestic economy and then set incentive measures for the substitution of imports. As far as export branches are concerned, that's quite clear. Car industry first. We have made a plan of state support for the IT industry and we are also in line with our defence industry and our agriculture-based food industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-03-11-0.u13360	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does Minister Dinkic want the word? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint single search. After we have conducted a joint single search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the bill's proposals. We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the National Community of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTAL IMPLEMENTATION DECISION OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE REGULAR PARTIES OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERVES IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTAL INSTITUTIONS IMPLEMENTARY DECISION OF THE National Assembly to carry out a joint single search on points 10 and 11 of the agenda, before the opening of a joint Single Search, I remind you that according to Article 192, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. The time of the debate by the parliamentary groups has come to you in material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the President or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want to do so. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. We move to the next item of the agenda - a proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the United Regions of Serbia. Before opening a single search, I remind you that according to article 193 and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group. The time of the debate you got in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 192, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. No, I don't. ) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia. After we have conducted a unique search, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft decision. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the basis of Article 101(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby interrupt the work of this session to hold the first special session of the National Assembly in 2013 which I called for Tuesday, 12 March 2013 at 10.00 hours. In accordance with Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the suspended session will continue on Wednesday, 13 March 2013, at 10.00 hours.
