ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19944	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the National Assembly. Given that today is Tuesday, I ask - whether any of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a national emissary, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19945	Madam Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will ask several questions to Minister Dinkic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and all questions concern the proposed budget rebalance. The first question I ask Minister Dinkic is about the revenue side of the budget. The projected rebalancing is expected to cost 50 billion dinars, which are due to be paid by earners. I ask the question - how will it be realized, when we know what is the situation in the private and real sector? In fact, 18% of the workers in this sector receive regular earnings, 53% are late, and 50,000 workers are led to work, but they do not receive any profits at all. Now, on this point, I ask the question -- does the budgeting on this basis fall on the balance transfer of money, because the budget is expected to be filled by public sector employees and the state administration, precisely those who are one of the biggest consumers of budget funds? The second question I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia concerns subsidies, i.e. the suspension of grants to the public sector. In any case, it is a good decision by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I think that the public sector subsidies should be interrupted. But the question arises -- how will the public sector continue to function, i.e. public enterprises, before we know that there have been no fundamental reforms in the public sector, that there has been no depoliticalisation, that there has been no rationalisation of labour at the end of the line? I ask the question – do these companies finally stop being social protection polygons and do they move on to market work? However, this also means that with this price of its products, these public enterprises will not survive, and I am asking the Government of the Republic of Serbia – does the suspension of subsidies, the granting of subsidies to the public sector mean that soon we can expect an enormous or significant increase, primarily the price of gas, or electricity prices, but also other services? I ask the third question to Minister Dinkic and it concerns the so-called own incomes made by institutions in health, education and justice. In fact, few people talk about it, but these own incomes of these institutions represent significant resources and significant sources of income. They, by law and by their essence, must be budgetary revenues, however, in practice, and I am just coming from practice, the most common situation is that these funds use institutions on an arbitrary basis and what is worse is used by the directors themselves, that is, by their allocations, they decide. So I ask Minister Dinkic the question – why are these revenues not balanced in the draft budget? The fourth question, which I think is not at all uninteresting and which really requires an answer, is the fact that the proposed budget rebalance has resulted in a reduction in the costs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by 120 million. The cost of the President of the Republic's office has been reduced by 6.9 million dinars. However, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not only not reduced its costs, but has even increased them by 60 million dinars. That's why I'm asking the government of the Republic of Serbia -- why didn't it get involved in these general austerity measures? I will use, since I still have time to ask the President of Parliament - why, although last three weeks have I not received an answer, why have temporary passes for the work of the MP's office been denied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19946	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19947	On behalf of the MP, I am asking the question of the government of the Republic of Serbia, rectorically adapted to this institution of parliamentary action, which can also be seen as a well-intentioned suggestion. The question, namely, is: does the Government of the Republic of Serbia have a professional public relations service, who runs it, based on what plan and strategy of action? Namely, it is an impression that instead of shrewd denials, spinnings that fit in the public space and deeply compromises the officiality of such a high address and unity of its policy, it requires a more serious approach to this subject and I will give a concrete example. Not long ago, some media released information that the minister of business and finance in the government of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, along with the mayor of Kragujevac, Mr. Veroljub Stevanovic, otherwise vice-president of the party in which the minister, organised an arms strike, and that would just endanger the integrity of the government and the positions of leading people in this highest executive body of government in the Republic of Serbia. The Mayor of Kragujevac and his information service have quickly and precisely denied it. Demant also referred to the ministry. The media then shut up, especially when the unions did. I didn't notice that the Government of the Republic of Serbia's Information Service came forward and I don't think it's naive at all. Because it's not about the contributions to the biography of someone's disability or it's not about playing with attitudes, different angles of observing peripheral issues, it's about the fact that in public, it's about creating a picture that certain parts of the government don't do teamwork, and that, if it were true, would be a sign of ambition that the government is destroying, and even by jeopardizing the government's superiors and carrying out some kind of coup strategy. That, no doubt, deserves a much more competent approach in public relations. The fact that under your idea of freedom of the press is also a tabloid practice of equating the highest representatives of the state with entertainers and toys along the pole and passing in a similar media context, it should be a question of the extent of our culture and the ability to perceive certain floor values. The fact that the tabloids in our public are placed in the same level as the daily press and the mainstream information houses, it is again a question of the maturity or inadequacy of our democracy and the actual degree of conquest of freedom. But under such conditions, partial deficits are not an adequate response to destructive strategies to endangering the unity of the functioning of the highest authorities in the Republic of Serbia. Very often, such strategies and the government's most successful moves are reduced below the level of criticism and divorced in completely inadequate and depressing perceptions. This is particularly important at the time when the official reports of relevant independent and regulatory bodies contain the formulations that both the most important and most successful government policies are accompanied by daily tabloid banalisation. Freedom of information is something democracy implies and until we learn that we also mean the fundamental importance of culture, science and education for the protection of integrity, the highest body of the executive authority in the Republic of Serbia, we mean on behalf of the URS, integratedly, in this parliamentary group that it is necessary to raise to a higher professional level the work of the Government Public Relations Service.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19948	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19949	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, my question was addressed to the finance minister and to the first deputy prime minister of the government. In fact, in the first few months of the application of the Public Procurement Act, we are faced with different types of problems in practice. So one of the most important things I would like to point out is the very work of the Public Procurement Administration, which is imposed on a member of the 136th Law to do different jobs, i.e. to give opinions, interpretations, to coordinate and co-operate with bidders, suppliers, contracting authorities, representatives of state bodies, public procurement referents, etc. I think, among other things, they have an obligation to make a plan to fight corruption, I don't know if they've done it yet. It wouldn't all be so terrible if he didn't work there 19 employees with all management, director, deputy director. Of those 19 people, only six people deal with these specific things, which I think is really too small. That's what we pointed out when we had this law here in Parliament. I can tell you that we are, for example. The Tchaiette municipality has over 200 public procurements over the year, so this one reference would be quite enough just to help, for example. the municipality to have some correct solutions and interpretations from this law. Not to talk about communicating with the Public Procurement Department, it's impossible to reach the director, the deputy director, the opinion of the Public Procurement Authority. It's impossible to get an oral route because when you have to call there between nine and twelve hours is a nonstop occupation. In these three months, colleagues from several municipalities I know, who are public procurement referents, have been unable to reach these lawyers at all during the agreed and planned time. After twelve hours when they call, they say it's over, and now you don't have the opportunity to hear from anyone because the time for these things is now over. Also, if there are any technical problems, the operator can contact between 12.00 hours and 14.00 hours every day. We were in a situation, too, from several other municipalities that people when they couldn't play a part in the public procurement portal to place an invitation to submit bids. They wanted to call that operator, they couldn't get a full stop for ten days turning that phone from 12.00 to 14.00 hours, that wasn't possible. Afterwards, the referent was punished for not having been able to put that call on the portal in time, at the same time as he went out to the Official Messenger, and on the other hand, the Public Procurement Authority, therefore, has no time limit to give an opinion, written, except for a ten-day period, if it is urgent and is required to do the negotiation procedure without making a public call. You know what, if it's an emergency, so it takes ten days, then I don't know what kind of urgency we're talking about. It is said, if something is urgent, it must be defined in the public procurement plan. Again, how do we know if it's going to break down on some trash hydraulic pumps at some point and that those garbage can't work? We can't put in public procurement, nor can we plan those funds. It is extremely difficult and complicated and I do not believe that this law can be applied in full capacity. I'm just wondering if this is how we fight corruption? Has anything changed in the fight against corruption by passing this law? Are the tenders still being staged? I believe that's the situation and that nothing special has changed here. Is this how we reduce bureaucracy? Is this how we cut all these regulations, help investors? Do we bring investors in this way and improve the economy by costing everything between others and other things because of the inability to implement these public procurements properly and without the help of the Public Procurement Administration that interprets this law. Do you know that there are procedures in the EU for public procurement that are ten times simpler than ours, and besides all these unnecessary things that we ask the EU for as a date, we can once take and transfer a very useful and necessary thing, and these are, for example, fully these procedures for public procurement. Another question would I ask the Minister of Construction – is the Minister of Construction informed that the Law on Planning and Construction in the Legalisation Act no longer applies from June 6th? Does he even know that legalization procedures in local self-government don't take place at all? Is he aware that citizens are bitter because they haven't been able to legalize their facilities for a month, and they've prepared all the paperwork and all the resources? Does he have any idea when the Law on Planning and Construction as system law and the law on legalisation will be found here in front of MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19950	National MP Ivana Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19951	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have had several environmental incidents in the territory of the Republic of Serbia during the past week. Someone's declaring it a meteorological phenomenon. What was happening on the ground, what we survived, what the citizens and citizens of Obrenovac survived and the surrounding villages that the citizens and the citizens of Kostolac survived cannot be called a meteorological phenomenon, but the only correct name is an ecological disaster. For one who observes it may seem like a beautiful or perhaps not such a beautiful phenomenon from Belgrade, but for people living in Obrenovac, Kostolc in Zajaca, these are ecological disasters of invaluable proportions. It is the fact that the ash from the dump is rising, that it is intensified during the weekend that there has been an increase in ash both in Obrenovac and Kostolec, and that villages around both the dumps and the surrounding Obrenovac are at risk. Very often, this ash represents a so-called heavy metal sponge for radioactive metals for other very dangerous substances. It can also cause mechanical and chemical reactions in the lungs of children who inhale that ash. The obrenovac was in the dark last session at three o'clock, and there was street lighting because the dark detectors turned on the street lighting, because it was dark in Obrenovac for three hours, absolutely dark. Therefore, I ask you not to call these things meteorological phenomena but to call them a catastrophic concern for the environment and that Minister Mihajlovic responds to what will be done in the coming months of July and August, since the inspection says that what was ordered by "Thermopower Plant Nikola Tesla"? Unfortunately, the inspection also tells us that there is no processing of the reports filed by the inspectors and that is why we expect Minister Mihajlovic to do what she has promised, to file criminal charges and to find out who is responsible for the EPS and at "Thermo Power Plant Nikola Tesla" for these several disasters? The villages of Krtinska, Urovci, Mladost and Grabovac were particularly threatened during the weekend, and the Kostolac, which was filled with ash, was particularly endangered on Sunday. Three hundred thousand people die from the burning of fossil fuels and the decommissioning of ashes, that's the world's data, and we need to do something about it as soon as possible. Today, 100 million tons of ash has been deposited in Obrenovac for the past 40 years, and there is not much news about this ecological disaster that happened last week, but the news is that no one has left and said what they will do in July and August, since we are expected to have hot days and that the separation of the ashes is likely to become more intense and more dangerous. Otherwise, both Obrenovac and Kostolac predicate lung disease and respiratory tract disease, above all, when it comes to the child population. When it comes to children, we have a story from Zajaca, unfortunately we still don't get an answer, this is a question for Minister Djukic Dejanovic, what have we done to know the concentration of lead and other metals in children's blood and what are we going to do to reduce these concentrations? We have some phenomena that we're registering, but unfortunately we don't have a series of measures that should follow and correct the state we're seeing. What is most important to us, as greens, is the way to the EU. We have many problems on this road to the EU. I am sorry that we still don't understand all together that environmental problems will be the biggest problem on the way to the EU, and I ask Minister Ilic to make sure that we don't strike on the way to the EU into an oak that happened and that oak can spoil our path to the EU, because he is a symbol of the ecological care that is happening.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19952	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19953	The government has made a major step towards Serbia's EU membership. But what is the task of our parliamentary group is to always intervene and warn the government that Serbia is on this path to the EU as soon as it becomes a European country within. A more balanced development, European laws and the removal of all obstacles from the European pathway, was the priority of our political parties that make up our parliamentary group. However, Serbia is today in a number of its elements in an unpopular first place in some negative trends. One of these trends is unbalanced regional development. In fact, we are the country that has the greatest imbalances in the differences in the development of its municipalities and cities. As a result, the demographic discharge of Serbia, the fleeing of the population from villages to cities, the fleeing of the population from small towns to large cities, the pressure on traffic, on jobs, on infrastructure and we have a total of unequal development, which is not the fundamental principle of EU development, because it is currently resting on the even development of not only EU member states, but also parts of the country of all these member states. What the SPO, not only through obtaining EU access funds, but also through access funds, believes that Serbia should be normatively prepared, to evenly define those funds, as today three-quarters of the total state capital, is turning in the Belgrade circle of the two. To do so, it is also necessary to change the Constitution, we also need to have regional governments, and Serbia needs regionalisation as a basic precondition for its even development. My question to the minister of justice, the state administration and the local self-government, whether it will launch an initiative to change the constitution, to regionalise Serbia and its even development, to stop this negative trend and to be an entirely European country on the inside. As best examples, we can benefit from examples from the environment of Croatia and Slovenia that have done so in a fairly valid way and have increased the number of municipalities. Secondly, the prime minister's exhibition said that out of 4,706 settlements in Serbia, in 1,140 settlements and 22% of the total number of settlements in Serbia, no child was born in 2010. Of the 765 municipalities in Serbia, without KIM, only eight recorded positive natural growth, in Grockoj, Zvezda, Novi Sad, Sjenica, Novi Pazar, Tutin, Bujanovac and Presevo. We've lost more population by the Prime Minister's exposé, which is true, in wars, and now we're inexorably going towards self-destruction. It's time for this trend to stop. That is why the government will exit urgently, not with a strategy, but with concrete measures to stop Serbia's biological disappearance. What's my question, Prime Minister, is what more concrete measures will the government take over the next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19954	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Branko Ružic, Ljubisa Stojmirovic, Zlata Djeric, Dejan Rajcic, Vladimir Marinkovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Dr Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Business, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Aleksandar Ljubic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Economy and Nada Mirkovic, Head of Finance and Business. We are continuing a joint principled review on the draft amending and supplementing law on the 2013 Budget Act of the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments to the 2013 Financial Fund for Health Insurance, the Proposal for a Decision on the granting of consent in the Decision on amending and supplementing the Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance for 2013 and the Proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2013, the Proposal for a Law amending the Budgetary System Act and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Pension and Disabilities Insurance. We'll wait for the minister to join us, so we can get back to work. We're going back to work. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19955	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, firstly, thank you, Vice President, for waiting for the Minister. I don't think we've lost much time, and it's important as an example, that we don't have a debate on such important issues until the government's representatives are in the O.R. Minister Dinkic is here. I see that the Vice-President of the Assembly has also called on the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Krkobic to attend these sessions, but Mr Krkobbic, as he has never, in several previous years, how active is a member of the government, so to speak, is not in this House. I suppose he has some important obligations or simply thinks he has no obligation to explain to this House what is required of him. Mr. Dinkic, I had a dilemma when I was thinking about how to start this exhibition, whether to quotes from a man who probably wrote about budgets and deficits and tax policy, much better than any finance minister in the world, whether to think of Ephray Makishon or to start with a quote in the area of time, at least you're not one of those ministers who were at the mouth on Friday, so you'll understand that better. You, your mandate or decision to enter the government, started with the quotes "Partibrokers" and Canet, and I thought we'd start today the way Rambo did in 1992 on the stage of the Sava Center when his gesture against the bombing of Sarajevo was that he kept quiet for three or four minutes before the full room of the Sava Center. I thought maybe the best thing to do today when we're holding this public finance statement for the budget, to feel these 17 minutes, I didn't know who was going to run the session, so I was afraid not to be punished for it, but I still decided to give the right political speech here today, and try to discuss budget rebalancing and all the problems that follow it. First, several times Mr Dinkic was said yesterday, you do not hide it yourself, that today or these days about budget rebalancing, about your hopes, about ideas for reforms, you speak in the same words as in November 2012 when you proposed the 2013 budget. I think the general impression that you're doing it with far less optimism, with the knowledge that the situation in your ruling coalition is much worse, or incomparably worse than it was seven months ago, with the fact that you don't know what's going to come up on which side tomorrow, or on which front page of which newspapers, that I need to talk to you today about the budget rebalance proposal, which the entire government is suggesting, and that some of the news headlines of speculation are on whether the government can exist only with your party, with someone else. I'm not entering your internal relations with each other in the ruling coalition, I'm just talking about the credibility of the government, the fact that you're here alone again, that there's never been a less representative of the government, or the government at a budget debate, but what this situation is today, that there's no president of this country again, and that in a few months, someone will say that this is your private budget, or your ministry's proposal, that you've missed for this much or so, and that there's no responsibility whatsoever. I don't regret you coming into such a situation, but I regret the citizens of Serbia, because they live in this way both the life and the budget of this country already, so I'd say a dozen years, or something less than that. To me, the key question is Mr Dinkic, what does the state say with this budget rebalance, what is and what should be the Serbian dream in 2013? Is that sorry for, I don't know, sweet '80s, some period before that, believing in re-industrialization, combined, state-owned investment, or is it a dream that someone who's been at the end of his career, has been struggling for 20 or 25 years in these more failed social and state-owned companies, even for their children or their children at the end of that career, before they retire, to secure a place in that same failed state loser? Is it a state service dream, or is it something else? You spoke of it yourself a few days ago, you say -- that the highest quality people don't want in the state administration, state enterprises, public administration, but tens of thousands of other people who may not be the best, or, they don't have enough confidence, Mr. Dinkic, they still want in that service. If not, this would not look like election campaigns across Serbia, you would not be wearing a party book T-shirt, and a party book for a promised workbook and you would not have enough problems to start a reform in any part of the public administration, or public enterprises. Of course, the biggest problem is the internal instability of the government, the unwillingness to go into structural reforms, and our problems are the structural clans that exist, Mr Dinkic, are not petty and are not finesse. It's July 2nd today, you haven't called a competition for all the public enterprises you've been obliged to call under the law. There may be some opinion from the Government's Legislative Secretariat, but at the Committee meeting where we adopted this amendment, Mr Dinkic, you sat down, we sat down and MPs of the ruling coalition, here I see the chairman of the committee, Mrs Tomic. There is no dilemma as to what was the intention of all of us when we were doing this amendment, to discuss competitions in all the companies covered by the Law on Public Enterprises. We will conduct the proceedings, I am telling you today, because authentic interpretations cannot be given by any civil servant or a group of civil servants in the Republic Secretariat of legislation, because there are some preparatory works and there is a way of interpreting regulations. Believe me, we here know better what we meant when we adopted, wrote that amendment and passed the law, than a father from a part of the state administration, who, before that, had a political official order to interpret the law. We don't really care who's in the government privately for the discussion of competitions and who's not. If those who are in the government who say they are in favour of calling the competition, they want to preserve the minimum credibility, then let them say who is preventing the call for competition. Here, tell us today, Mr. Dinkich, is that a game? Is that a family, a clan in the government? Who is it, Mr. Dinkich? I've been listening for days to everyone to call the competition, and in the end, there's no competition, and there's two or three candidates, half the city already knows or guesses who's going to be the director of, like, EPS, or some other firms. You know what, it's not the most important thing for this country to be the director of the technology show, but it's very important who will be the directors of the company that generates huge losses. One of them is what you apostrophe yesterday, Mr. Dinkic, as the biggest loser. Say, "Serbigas." Until you do, you will not have any kind of reform in this second part of the public sector, which is even more suffocating this country. We'll sit here. We will get to retirement ourselves, talking about the internal problem of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund. At every step of the way. None of us are idealists in that sense. Of course, as of tomorrow, whatever reform is being initiated will not be a great situation in the PIO Fund. But at least take the first step. Why does the PIO Fund have a board of directors with 21 members? Give me a successful multinational company that has such management, Mr Dinkic, not to mention what professional qualities are and what performances are in the work of these people, who lead them. Well, there's half your administration, direct or masked PAPS. Your unions have been there for 30 years. There's no room for other unions on that board of directors. So is the PIO Fund, and so is every government fund. What can this country expect of these people who manage the Fund, through which more than five billion euros per year pass? It's not worth talking about any more "Serbian Railways". So how, Mr. Dinkic, will such a leadership of the "Serb Railways" do anything? I can't talk about these truffles anymore, franchise, it's an esthema. The main problem is that these people don't understand how this company has to operate. We are not people who say – stop the railway, because we know that there is no normal European country, which does not even have a relatively decent rail system. But not to be just talking about other parties, or some parties that, let me put it that way, are suspicious of these circumstances, that they might want to keep their effective personnel or party armies at the heads of public enterprises, or some kind of state public authorities, those who collect, then spend money. Here's that National Employment Service, Mr. Dinkic. Well, there's more or less, as you know, mostly people who need someone else to find a job without working, mostly on a party key in that national service, probably most of them would never have been able to get a job for themselves, on a normal, open labour market. And when we told you seven months ago, take off, there's a few billion space in the National Service, you said -- it can't, you'll set people up without compensation, it can't do that. I see you've cut it now, it seems to me about that much. So it could've been seven months ago, but there was no readiness. It's not exactly commendable when you succeed, as you claim, to find thirty-something billion dinars on what's usually called discretionary costs. That means there's a huge space for abuses in this budget. If ministers, or ministries or parts of the ministry have the opportunity to dispose of such funds, then it is a key generator of potential corruption in this country, not what the fight against corruption has turned into even in the media sense. Maybe it's a chance to clear up another question. You seem to me yesterday in your presentation Mr Dinkic, somewhere in half a sentence, to say that there will be a policy change in terms of borders, or amounts, covering deposits in banks. So, that more, means from now on, if I get it right, it's important because of the public, I think yesterday in interpretations there have been different interpretations, so the state will no longer go to cover over what its legal obligation is, or legal maximum of 50,000 euros, unlike previous practices, when you've covered all the deposits by the basket of the failed state banks. Am I right? That's a pretty serious problem, because it makes on one side inequality, so to speak, in the legal order, endangers legal certainty, and the third effect, is that it sends a message. You've been doing this job for a very long time, you know what they're probably like today, or what the effects of your statement or decisions in the banking system will be in the coming days, where there are already a lot of internal problems, which is slowed down. They'll start moving the money back into the straws, Mr. Dinkic. It's not, I think, the epilogue you wanted, but it'll certainly be one of the results. When you announce where you're going to get out of state property, or government, you weren't exactly accurate. Something more is said in the very text of the proposal you sent us. Serbia is unlikely to save an arrangement related to the Cachanska Banka, except it may save one of those involved in dealings with the bank, which we hear is in a catastrophic situation. Speaking of "Dunav Insurance," is "Dunav Insurance" being sold, Mr. Dinkic? Before that, do we restructure the Danube Insurance, do we release the Danube Insurance from the thousands of party soldiers who have organised it for the past few years or do we not? It's important that we know, because it's stupid to get another slap from a potential investor, like we got from Etyhad. Thank God, so Etihad said we'll never get into a JAT arrangement if he continues to operate as a public firm. We've been telling you this for five, six years. It wasn't enough, all right. It's come to an end. Loss is so much more unsustainable. Maybe you can accept something when strangers tell you to. It's one of the biggest problems here, the enthusiasm of strangers in the 7th rank, and the inability to recognize potentials in our own country and maybe listen to sometimes those who are willing to help us in the jobs that we have to do. There will be a special debate here on the new type of assistance, i.e. the taking over of debts "The Way of Serbia". I won't talk much about it today, but yesterday you talked about how there's no discount on "Serb Roads" and how they're actually going to have to pay VAT, and there won't be an increase in toll, or at least at some point there won't be a percentage of what the VAT rate is, but that's why you have a million other places, Mr Dinkic, to help the company. You give them 6.2 billion dinars of donations, or subsidies to this budget. For what? Did they show that they were capable of handling infrastructure? Who's gonna do those big structural jobs you're talking about? "Serbian Ways"? What part of the construction industry, the one you ruined, is with its then coalition partners in 2009-2010, when the populist law that introduced the conversion was adopted and when the state became a dunce by building those apartments that are now sinking, as far as I can hear, in the Jerkovic Brothers a few centimeters a year? That's what it looks like when the state builds apartments. That's what it looks like when you want to subsidize every piece, and build, and sell and life after that, and then it ends up like that at every step, from the Railways to Stepa Stepanovic. Then I took and looked at what the dynamics of paying off some of the loans since 2014. I'm sure you've seen it even more carefully, Mr. Dinkich. Tell the citizens how terrible it is, how much amounts we will start to pay since 2004 for dozens of "Serbiagas" credits, JAT, "Galeniki", what are these annual tranches. Any side you turn, that's an interest rate of 6.17%. Some reach 9%, 9.5% and 10%. So we're going to start paying off the loans we took to restructure these companies or some other kind of aid in them, and there's still no plan for that restructuring. Please, let's talk about this a little bit more. If we don't do it, we're all gonna be that dunstan boranium. It is a recipe that, for example, this month, is the record of the failed PIO Fund, which is called – the voice of the insurance company offers to its readers. I think we have to offer these people a lot more than a recipe for dinstan boranium, Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19956	Thank you, Mr. Turkey. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19957	I'm a little disappointed that you haven't quoted someone from rock poetry as you've announced, because if they were, I'd answer you if they weren't just "Partibreakers" whose lyrics I love. Milan Mladenovic is my favorite writer. He once said, "When it's over, for me, you know, that's when it started." So when you talk about this budget, first you have to wait until the end and always wait for the end before the grades are carried out, because for things in the economy, unfortunately for me, unfortunately for my critics, there's nothing possible to do in the short term. It's a reality, and I've never run away from it. I'm fully aware of that. When you're talking about the front pages of the tabloids, where I've been in charge for years, I should have done 500 years in prison if at least one percent of what they're writing. I don't do this to be popular and people love me, but to one day appreciate what I left behind and appreciate my results, so I don't care what the tabloids write. What's important is what's being created in practice. When I was criticized for this "Fiat", how many people criticized me back then, when we signed the first contract, I knew it would come to that realization. Everyone couldn't wait for it to go to waste. It's Serbia. Most of them couldn't wait for it to go to waste and never come true. They talked a lot - we're sorry about our "Yugo". All right, he was nice to all of us, but 20 years ago. Simply, the car became a demode after 20 years and couldn't be competitive. Mr. Bozidar Djelic even bought for marketing reasons "Jugo convertible", but definitely, when you look at this car that now produces, when you look at "Fiat", when you look at what this factory in Kragujevac looks like today, it cannot be recognized. I have to say, that's the kind of thing I'm proud of. I am the happiest at the end when after the criticism, which can last a year, two, three and four, I can come and say – yes, thanks to the fact that we brought "Fiat" to Serbia, we made the automotive industry again in Serbia. Serbia has the automotive industry again. A fifth of Serbia's total exports today are the automotive industry. If the Fiat hadn't come, not many autocomponents would have come. Neither would this new company, which has two billion euros in traffic from Hong Kong, which is now building the Johnson Electronics factory in Nis, where 1,000 people will be employed, would come from the Bosch, which finished the plant in the Caves. Many giants from the car industry would not come, because they should have had a vision, suffered criticism that lasted for years, because when the crisis started after the signing of the contract in 2009, it was really late to invest a year for objective reasons, the crisis started. In the end, however, it was all successfully completed. There's a lot of examples like that. They criticized me for another favorite topic – why did I build wires on the Kopalnik? That was the favorite theme of my on-call critics. Then the old mountain was added. Whoever goes to Kopalnik today can see that it is a mountain that would not be alive, because they would lose competition from all the mountains around Bulgaria that, five, six years ago, we did not start modernising the infrastructure. Those who go to the Old Mountain will see what it looked like five years ago, and what it looks like today, and they'll only see in a year, when new hotels are invested in private investments, that we were right that we were the first to invest there as a state. Of course, now there's a crisis and now there's no room for national investment in the mountains. They also know what happened on Zlatibor when we built those installations and what might add to the Zlatibor General, I have no problem with criticism. I'm aware that the results can be shown on a longer term. I'll come here with a draft budget at the end of the year for next year and then we'll be able to sum up the results by the end of this year. I agree the situation isn't easy at all. That's what I said. I don't want to talk about something that isn't. I must say, with many other findings of yours, I agree, first of all, with the conclusion that there is still no consistent implementation of the Law on Public Enterprises. The fact is, as finance and business minister, we have called public competitions for those public enterprises that are in our jurisdiction. Some of my colleagues have also called, but not all competitions are fully scheduled. Since I have been informed that this has not been done, I gave the prime minister and the Deputy Prime Minister one notice and a request that, if the ministers themselves do not wish to discuss it, the government must do so instead. The law must be respected and you're absolutely right. I don't want to defend anything that's indefensible. You're right about that. It is also pointless that the PIO Fund has 21 members of the Management Board. I've been informed that it's in the law and that it's not a decision that the government can change, then that law needs to be changed in that part. I couldn't agree more with you, there's no reason, no matter what they're giving a reason to have, I don't know how many representatives of different unions there are, that different funds have been combined, that everyone wanted to hold a position, that's exactly how much it's supposed to be. To clarify the policy of the banking system. The fact is that when "Liman Brader" collapsed in 2008, after that negative experience, all the countries from the United States to European countries set out in massive banking rescue programmes that would potentially fail. Billions of dollars and euros were given for these purposes. We did the same to maintain the stability of our system. We made one lex specialis law adopted by the Assembly, it seems to me in October last year, and we saved all deposits of the "Vojvodine Development Bank" and "New Agrobanka" so that citizens and businessmen who had over 50,000 euros, what the state does not guarantee, would not lose any of their roles. However, Europe has changed the rule this summer, and we are changing the rules. If all is guaranteed, moral gambling is introduced, especially in countries that have no power to endure such a thing. So we can't tell people that even in the future, the state will forever take over what has not been guaranteed by law. I think it is enough guarantee that the state guarantees all individual deposits up to 50,000 euros, and that anyone who has more and anyone who wants to invest more than 50,000 euros thinks hard about which bank they will put it in. There's no dilemma. It should not be taken by interest rate, or interest rate, but by bank security. There must be individual responsibility, both for depositors and individuals if deposits are over 50,000 euros. Therefore, the state should guarantee for those people who are either weaker in property or are the middle class with up to 50,000 euros in individual stakes. They don't have to think, no matter where they put it, if anything happens to a bank of the state, they're going to hurt them. Those who have over 50,000 euros should include their heads and take a look and be managed for safety. Security is unfortunately for savings as low as interest rates because it's probably a safer bank. She works more seriously with deposits. The one who wants to make money on interest, no one gets rich on interest. You know how it went with the Dafiment Bank, the Jugoscan and some pyramid chains. So renting a long-term is something you shouldn't be thinking about. In that sense, what we just said... We don't have the money to cover it, and it's good for me to say it in advance. That's why I'm speaking in advance, if there were a bank collapse in the future in Serbia, we'd be covering all the guaranteed deposits up to 50,000 euros immediately, and that's that. As for unsecured deposits, they would settle from the bank's bankruptcy process. As for the Danube Insurance, you are right that it is wise to restructure the Danube Insurance first and only then go to potential privatisation. In this sense, negotiations with the International Financial Corporation, part of the World Bank, set off to become a minority owner of a possible "Dunav Insurance" with about 20 per cent, to improve corporate governance. Then together to achieve a much better price for the state, and also to get a more serious strategic partner, because definitely "Dunav Insurance" is the biggest home insurance house, but business is getting worse and worse. There's no doubt that there's something to be done. When it comes to Chachanska Banka, she's doing a great job. There is already a European Bank for Reconstruction and Development minority partner and it is one of the more serious regional banks in Serbia. This is where we said, if there is someone serious who is interested in it, we have no reason not to discuss the tender, but if no one is interested they are also excellent now and can continue in such ownership, mixed, where the majority is the owner of the state, and the minority European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Financial Corporation. We will retain the majority ownership of the Commercial Bank, which is our strategic orientation, since it is currently the largest bank in Serbia. Number one is bigger and stronger than all foreign banks working here, although there are also very good foreign banks operating in Serbia. The idea is to strengthen the Post Office in the coming period. She entered the first 10 banks in Serbia at the level of deposits after the acquisition of the Vojvodine Development Bank and New Agrobank deposits. The following period must take into account the strengthening of corporate governance in order to maintain a serious position in the next period. I agree with you that it was a mistake in the previous period for state resources to build apartments to build firms on the market. The state needs to build roads, build railways, bridges, deal with this kind of public works. Construction, housing, it should be done by companies on the market, and the state should, as I started with a project of subsidized loans and insurance for the purchase of apartments, encourage demand. Ensuring housing is something that is the role of the state and my point of view is that this practice should continue. The only segment where the state should interfere in building apartments is social housing. Everything else needs to run the market. Serbia's "roads" must be on subsidies and that is not disputed. Since they had previously had 20% of the excise income, and now for one two years they don't have it and that's why they could have enough resources to function, they have to have certain budget subsidies. You're absolutely right when you say that this company has to be better managed and that our paths must look better. I agree with everyone, whenever you cross our border you feel at points different in the quality of the roads. The holes are right after we cross our border and I don't know why that is. I have never dealt with this area, but it is definitely the issue of organising the efficiency of governance in this area for years in Serbia. They're not a asset problem. I'll only tell you in the area of traffic infrastructure how many loans we currently have available. As regards the funds agreed since 2006-2012, before the government's mandate, the total Ministry of Transport, i.e. the institutions that are under it, is at the disposal of 1,700,000 euros in contracted loans by 2012, and not withdrawn 1,400,000. Of that, more than 50% of Serbia's Roads have also withdrawn, but 900m euros have not been withdrawn for Corridor 10 of the agreed billion euros for work on Corridor 10. It's just a 10% withdrawal. The "Serbian Railways" did not withdraw 309.000,000 euros for projects since 2006-2012, plus which is now an 800,000-dollar loan with the Russian Federation. However, I must say there are also 700,000 euros in undrawn loans to the EPS. So it's not just traffic infrastructure. Of the 780,00,000 as agreed since 2008-2012, 680,000,000 euros have not been withdrawn for the EPS. Only 13.9% has been withdrawn. That's why I went out to the government session last week with this official document and asked the ministers in their portfolio or cancel some loans if they think they are not useful for Serbia, that we know what we need and what is not, or that they withdraw urgently. We have banned negotiations on new arrangements until at least 70% of these loans are withdrawn. Serbia has been overrun, I would say, money for infrastructure projects, which is why we cut up some of the infrastructure projects in the budget, because why waste budget funds if we have loans at 20-30 years with a 1% interest rate that we do not withdraw and do not withdraw for years? Of course, there will also be words about it in the reconstruction of the government. The organisation of non-building infrastructure is something which is a weakness not only of the previous government, because our government works only a year, but of all governments who know how many years, perhaps of all governments after the disappearance of the former Yugoslavia. Malta's all serious infrastructure was built during the former Yugoslavia. After that, we've had problems for 20 years. It's the general problem of our society. I don't know where our top engineers are, how they get to those places that are executive and that those resources that exist are exploited. I'm sure we have excellent workers and top engineers. What's the problem? Let's all see it together. It's not just today, it's a problem back 20 years. I don't want to talk too much, so I don't take your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19958	National MP Mira Petrovic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19959	I must point to the violation of Rules of Procedure 104, as the previous speaker spoke negatively about the party my MP group belonged to. Speaking of PIO, it is said that there are direct or masked PUPS members. I don't know what the problem is if the PUPS members are on the board of the PIO Fund? This is where the honorable people sit. In this party there are people who deserve their pensions most honestly, but also people who have yet to reach them. I think the Fund's problem is in something else, not in number 21. I think the problem is not paying taxes and contributions. I think there's a problem with a loose fiscal policy. Yesterday we talked about this country being held by the private sector. It is true, but this same private sector does not pay taxes and contributions neatly. We all remember how the PIO Fund worked at the time of the Social Accounting Service. Let's not go back, she's not the subject of this conversation and our session today. I'd just like to point out that the ministry for which the PUPS took responsibility has absolutely done everything in its power. We've already had a few situations here where the minister has made public reports on what has been done. Socially, it's hard. It's a lot of work in the community. After all, the government will assess and verify, as well as the public enterprise for which we have taken responsibility. (President: Time. ) So, we have a simple situation where this public enterprise has only achieved profit and not 10%, 20%, but 400%. So in six months, this company will have the most famous profit, which in 2011 was 20 million.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19960	Mrs. Petrovic, two minutes and 25 seconds. (Mira Petrovic, from the scene: Let's get back to the topic and let's really talk about it. ) I believe that Article 104 is not injured. I advise that you have the basis to report as an authorised representative of the replicator. It's something that was better used in this sense, and in fact most of it was a replica compared to the exposition of the predecessors. But, well, I get what you're saying. I don't think that member's hurt. Of course, if you insist, we can plead on that in the voting day. (Mira Petrovic, from town: Yes. ) National MP Bojan Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19961	Since I have no right to do this formally, it's a shame that you've broken up, I'd like to listen very much to what company has gained 400 percent profit, to deal with all of this business that rejects such annual profits. This is really awesome. Although, I'm not sure if Mrs. Petrovic was answering to me or the minister. First, he spoke before her. Secondly, I understand that you, Mr. Dinkic, are against being such a board of directors of the PIO fund and of course you are against being represented by political parties. Mrs. Petrovic, as representative of your coalition partner, says she thinks it's a great thing. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Dinkic, because what you're saying here today, is it government policy or is it government policy what one of your coalition partners is saying? That's why we have this problem. That's why there aren't any of the best engineers to come. Where do they come from? Who should be their boss and director? In the ministries of Mrkonjic and Ilic, and in public enterprises who, Simonović, Krkobibic? Would you do that in your life? I believe you wouldn't, although I must admit, have had various bosses in your governments, so I'm not sure about that either. Of course, most of what you were talking about is true, it looks great, but the key question remains – where is the strength for these reforms, or how are we going to change there, as Mijat Lakicevic said in the text yesterday, what logic does this country have? I think that turning that logic is actually a key thing or turning this logic that we've been hearing here for three minutes about that profit, not maydcet, Mr Stefanovic, but just logic, it's much more important. There are great quotes, I agree. Milan Mladenovic is a great poet, just don't bring the country into this situation to be just a few more years behind us. And Johnny's great, we're totally broke, Mom. Touch something that might mean something.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19962	National MP Mira Petrovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19963	I won't be as sang and played as all of you here, I won't talk about poets, but I will tell you that there are official financial reports that have been filed and the minister is familiar with that. So what I'm saying is it's not part of a beautiful desire, it's an artistic thing, it's something that this system actually accomplished, and it's very simple to check. I think we have a bigger problem here. We have a problem here, when we have already reached out to Mr. Krkobbić, who is at the head of PTT, we have a problem with business, or we have assumed responsibility by name and last name, or party, unlike others. There's a big problem here, an info, a job where there were non-partisan personalities on your proposal, where the job that belonged to the law of PTT was taken away. We returned it, or Mr. Krkobiæ returned it. It's two million euros. You will have to, or an important one to pay a fine of 1 million and 400,000 euros. I think that's the biggest problem in the whole story. When we talk about ability, when we talk about people, we mix. We have very clear data here. As far as your people were supposed to be unbiased, you have this story in town, you have what results you left there, how many debts there are left, how many people are magically missing, but we're not going to get into any further controversy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19964	Thank you. (Bojan Djuric, from the place: Replica. You weren't mentioned. I wasn't sure if she was talking to you or the minister, so I don't think there's any reason to give you a replica. The word has the People's MP Biljana Ilic Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19965	Thank you. Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, listening to the presentations of their distinguished colleagues, especially from the opposition, I have almost succumbed to the temptation to compare the atmosphere in society with that famous something altered manifesto – the bogey circled Serbia, a bauk of bankruptcy in fear of rebalancing. Fear and panic spreads the current opposition, and the former government, which has been driving citizens out of power, has not been able to avenge them enough. For the sake of imaginary and advanced politically missed political points, the opposition gentlemen in question are trying to sow fear among citizens, which best speaks of how and how much these citizens respect, are more precisely underestimating, and that little Perica already does not know that the state is not bankrupt for reasons created overnight, and that the many-year-old accumulated problems pushed under the carpet cannot be solved in a year. After all, who, gentlemen of the opposition, has prevented you from facing the truth and applying painful cuts much earlier? No one, except for the results of a public opinion survey, which was more important to you than the fate of the people. You may have known that the public debt crisis, that it must only be solved by long-term measures, gave up in advance in fear that someone else would profit politically, so they allowed savage privatisation, destroying what little real sector there was left. After the '90s, which were scary, and to which you call so much, there was at least something left to repeat. After your 2000s, the house was empty because all the locusts ate it. It totally seems amazing to me that the majority of the opposition's behaviour, to me, is exulting over the problems in which the state was found, especially because our country's financial problems are largely responsible. The former government, and the current opposition, spoiled by the excessive upheaval of power, forgets what a chicken is and what an egg is, and especially what a cowardly one, so they're happy with the fact that the current government has decided to now propose a rebalancing. Is it more important to you, gentlemen of the opposition, to show that you were right, if you were right at all, or is it more important to you to have the fate of a country that is for your mother only when you are in power? Do you really think that citizens are even interested in your "infalliblely accurate forecast" and that this will be crown proof that you should come to power again? Don't the results of the last local election deny you about it? Since I am not inclined to get involved in anything and anything like self-proclaimed experts of general practice, I am interested in the broadest social consequences adopted in the everyday life of ordinary citizens. Because everyone knows that the bucket is saved from the top, and this government is left with a bowl so empty that its bottom is pierced. And what do you do now without producing even greater misery? Tire-tightening? The general savings sound nice, but it's only saved when it's there, and most citizens' belts have already cracked since the years of stretching. The achievement of the greater degree of social justice is one of the fundamental principles of this government. It implies the distribution of the burden of the social crisis by making the most of the contributions to those who have the most, or at least at risk, and the consequences of their standard will be less painful. That is why it was decided to move first from the ministries, from the authorities of the state administration and public enterprises, through the rationalisation of budget spending. Problem is, that's where the circle closes. Because the biggest public enterprises have a low cost problem with services from citizens and businesses, which are not the most competitive users. But among them is a good number of those who are used to paying nothing. Most often they were close to someone in power, so they were practically untouchable. So, at least for starters, we should start with them, so let's see who are really good and successful businessmen who serve all the obligations of the state, and who does business and lives under protectionist conditions, walking around with false abilities. So far, the government has treated them as Alan Ford's Superhik – we take from the poor to give to the rich. The exact social maps – a practice that has already started in some ministries – may well be the best way for social justice to be met, at least to the extent that it is realistic and possible. I'm particularly concerned about the fate of those 55,000 workers in state-owned enterprises that are undergoing years of formal restructuring, and are really financed from the budget. What will happen to those whose jobs, as Minister Dinkic recently said, are fictitious, and I would add - without their guilt? We know that it's mostly people of advanced age who won't be welcome in any foreign company. I therefore particularly welcome the decision to increase the amount of budgets, so-called budgets. The transition fund that will receive 5.2 billion dinars instead of the current 1.6 billion. This fund is intended to address the status of employees declared a technological surplus in companies whose status is being resolved. This basically means that extra money has been allocated to pay the severance payments to people who are going to lose their jobs after losing their jobs. I would especially like to warn the Government on this occasion that citizens are mass complaining about the unhidden "ajesism" or discrimination under the age criteria, especially when it comes to foreign employers. Of course, the state can't interfere with business politics, but it can at least partially put them in or stimulate them when they hire one of those old lions, as the Germans and the French called them when they retired from work because of their enormous knowledge and experience that they lacked in business practice. Like this, I'm afraid we've turned the idea of hiring young and professional into a mantra that employers have abused in the most brutal way. Because of all of this, as a legitimate representative of citizens, I want to remind the creators of the rebalancing not to forget that behind the figures that they're moving from right to left column, there are living people, real people and their lives fates for which we are largely responsible because these same citizens have empowered us, giving us trust, to exercise power in their name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19966	MP Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19967	Thank you. Dear Ministers, President of the Assembly, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we continue this rebalancing with the same path that we started with the budget at the beginning of this year, and we have established another set of tax laws that were here in the Assembly a few months ago. Since we're going with quotes today, I like you most of all to quote, you said the other day that we were leaving high wages in public enterprises and on account of the reduction in funds in the Emergency Budget Fund. If nothing, at least it's true. Next you say – we should take a bitter medicine now rather than sugar water, so that we do not take the strongest injections later. I suggest we take the strongest injections immediately, because I think it's about time. I'd like to ask if this is the best we could do right now, because I was really expecting something much more radical? You're proposing three sets of measures in this budget and that's what this rebalancing is about. Among other things, the measures to stabilise the state budget, reduce expenditure and increase investment. You're saying you won't increase your taxes anymore. It would be a shame to increase taxes more, because we have increased VAT and excise duties, profit tax, capital gains tax, contributions to the PIO fund, etc. I really think it's too much. And how and how are we going to improve production, economic growth and so on if we don't invest, if we minimize investment ourselves? You said well earlier that, for example, investment in artificial decoupling, investment in wire and so forth, generated some new investments, increased standards, more people who come and leave funds there – simply, everything improved. I think we have to do that now. At this point, everything goes public, and nothing goes into investment. If we're standing, of course we're not spending anything, but there's certainly nothing new we can do. I think Serbia is quite mature for new, fresh and forward. As far as structural reforms are concerned, I would certainly agree that the restructuring of these 179 companies, i.e. the completion of this process, should be implemented until the end. You say that this will improve the investment climate. I'm not sure how or how we're going to do it, when we don't even have the elemental infrastructure to get investors to come to us, to be there. Why? Because the government's obligation is to build that elemental infrastructure and we've cut those funds completely in the budget. With local self-government, we subtracted funds through income tax cuts, transfer funds cuts, large liabilities without additional funds, so they can't work themselves. Is the incentive to improve the investment climate for domestic production 10 000 euros per job for foreign investors? I don't think so. Do we build some infrastructure and take funds from credit lines, do foreign contractors work? Yeah, that's right, and they don't pay VAT on those contracts, and usually these foreign contractors take domestic subcontractors who, of course, pay VAT and then get into even bigger problems, and these contractors just pick up the puck. The construction industry is in chaos, in big trouble, 3,000 workers have been fired at the most recent time, 10,000 are on ice, waiting for what will happen, their wages are completely reduced, their jobs are nowhere. So that's how we, through new investments, generate the following, build infrastructure and thus bring investors and new investments to us. I think it would be normal. Do losers deserve to have such high wages? I don't think they deserve it. We need to take care of the effect – who works well, who should have good results and get a good reward. I don't know if it's appropriate for the Ministry of Economy to generate some kind of development to have the biggest savings in the budget? I agree you should, but is that exactly the ministry we're relying on? You mention amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, on Labour, etc. That's where I would agree with you, and I think it's necessary to bring these system laws to one level. But how does the Law on Planning and Construction, as at least announced, mean that the fees for the construction land will not have to be paid until the permits are used? Look out, these people won't even pay for municipal equipment. From what will local self-government build a infrastructure that will be necessary to build a building there, etc.? It is also the case with regard to the Labour Act, the Law on the Maximum Number of Employees in Local Self-Government, the Law on the Salaries of Civil Servants, etc. So it has to contain some new criteria to account for salaries, employment, and these capital projects that we're talking about in the Budgetary System Act, in the amendments to this law, but we also have to have some other criteria to be valued at. I'm talking about that effect, but I'm also talking about that the number of inhabitants can't be a simple criterion of how we're going to assign something to someone. Well, then, we can, for example, count how much VAT is coming down from one municipality. We can count the budget per capita, the number of visitors, the infrastructure per square mile, and the number of investments in that local self-government. For example, the number of requirements for construction, according to the number of permits issued, etc. It cannot, therefore, be just a simple criterion for the number of inhabitants. What I think should be the point is that we need to work this thing out first in the state apparatus. So, let's in state institutions, public enterprises, ministries, agencies, offices, administrations, directorates, directorates and all the other state services first solve these problems, introduce salary control through labour, employment and planning and rationalisation by institutions, and then go after those local self-governments. That we don't always hit where the rent is, because it's the easiest thing to do with local self-government, because we're going to ban them from transfers, or we're going to cut transfers, and trust a lot of local self-government, I'm sure you know, lives off only those transfer funds. Pensions should certainly be tied to GDP growth, not otherwise. I said pay, and I'll repeat, maybe somewhere even to cut it, because the effect doesn't show that these things are going in the right direction. We need to set good starting points, because that's the only way we're gonna get a good result. If we get into the wrong track, the result must be negative anyway. You have to listen to people from the field and you don't have to let people move completely from the inside and come to Belgrade, because you can think, what will happen when we all get here to Belgrade? I want to raise my children on the slopes of Tara, Zlatibor and Zlatar and stay there, anyway. I'd just like to remind you, when no one has long since, of your pre-election passwords, your departementization and the even regional development we see has been taken into account anywhere within this budget. I'm saying, well, it was too nice, and it was certainly true that we're going into that rock phase, and I'm laughing really, really, and I'd cry over what I see.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19968	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19969	What, respected citizens, Minister Dinkic, we have today ahead of us and what we are trying to talk about is the rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia's budget, which carries in itself numerous shortcomings. But let's start with how we started with the quotes this morning. By the way, since you mentioned "ECV" you had a better example. If you'll allow me, as a man who's been doing rock and roll for a long time, in a way, you could, say, quote a song called "Money in Hands." I think it's more like it to you, you've got a song called Buy Me Me, remember that song? By the way, I'm speaking to the Serbian Assembly today, in the day we're talking about the Old Mountain and Gondolas, there are no stents in Serbia for surgery in cardio-vascular departments. We received information this morning that there are only seven stents in Uzic, Minister Dinkic. Otherwise, there are no vaccines in Serbia today, and wartime and peacetime disabled people have not received money for a part of the disability. It was the first time, I think, since 2000. It's a picture of what we have today. We had a recent massive set of scientific workers who did not get their belongings, which is what my colleague Djelic was talking about yesterday, and he's going to talk about. Stojkovic later. This government, rather than talking today about the necessary reforms, in virtually all segments of our society, is pushing this budget that will bring the country down to two billion euros by the end of this year, which is likely to completely stop the economy, raise the question of payouts, pensions and social contributions, and certainly bring the state into early elections. That's what we have to tell the citizens. This political will of this failed government and an even more unsuccessful coalition today is in some way not only a political will but, if you will, a political parastos and preparing for early elections where each of you grabs what can reach with your left and right hands. After several weeks and countless meetings of what you call the state summit on which large historical decisions were announced, a consensus finally took place to continue as old and to replace the lost 120 billion dinaragyte with the savings of 36 billion dinars. Well done. In doing so, more than half of these alleged savings are incentives for the economy, agriculture and investment in infrastructure, so that, as a consequence of their application, we can expect an additional drop in economic activity and unfortunately loss of jobs for respected citizens. The first rule of combating the crisis in every country and even in one that has such an incompetent government is to strengthen investment in infrastructure, under two – invest in science and education and under three – reduce the costs of the state. It's a very simple recipe. This government does absolutely everything the opposite of that and it's seen in this rebalancing. 500m euros were planned for capital investments, i.e. Only 50m euros have been spent so far to build large projects. But that's why we have three or four ministers for it and those ministers, respected citizens, with their employees, cost us over 10m euros. We pay them over 10m euros, and they get 50m euros, and there's nothing, they didn't build anything. That's the Serbia we live in today. The government has decided to save the most where it will do the most damage in Serbia's future, which is education and science. Even three billion dinars, out of which 1.8 billion for scientific institutes whose budget revenues in the second half will be reduced by 23%. State savings on goods and services i.e. In order for citizens to understand their diaries, their representations, travels is only 0.6%, respected citizens. So that's what the government intends to give up on its privileges. What would the well-respected citizens and dear colleagues give up when you can always get your hand in the citizens' pocket through some new tax charge, like you did a month ago with tax laws? You forget that you promised to abolish 70 agencies and make huge savings. You forgot that the vote for Gilas means the vote for Dinkic. You've forgotten a lot, and today for them, you've singled out over 100m euros for these agencies to hire party personnel that you said there's no way to be participation in Serbia anymore because it's a feature of the evil DS government, and you're going to quickly departize by detaching more than 100m euros to hire your party palos. In fact, some independent estimates suggest that within a year, you have managed to employ more than 10,000 party soldiers of SNS, URS and SPS in various levels, while at the same time 40,000 employees, some will not agree, I say immediately, lost their jobs in the economy. It is a respected citizen of images of today's Serbia and a picture of this government's political parasite. In doing so, you propose to reduce the budget for active employment measures by three billion dinars and to increase the transition fund by as much as 5 billion. It's the gentleman's severance fund. Call him so nicely that we know what to talk about or if you want to – the budget for firing. Two months ago you boasted, which will be discussed by my colleagues in more detail, how you adopt a law on incentives in agriculture and that subsidies will be guaranteed, and now in the middle of the campaign you change that same law to cut the subsidies by 3.5 billion dinars. After last year's drought, you announced big investments in irrigation, and now you're cutting costs for these purposes by 50%. The Emergency Fund has been reduced, as you expect no emergency situation can be struck after you, and we cannot experience a drought or flood. Due to such access and no wonder, in 2013 we lost as much as 200m euros in external trade and agricultural products, respected citizens, compared to the previous year. You've been talking about freezing wages and pensions for days. What did you do? They will be increased you said, well done, by as much as 0.5%, which is 230 dinars more for the worker and 150 dinars more for the pensioner per month. What does that mean when the annual inflation is 10%? The same worker is actually less than 4,000 and the pensioner for 2,300 dinars. Dear pensioners, why do you keep your mouth shut and support this rebalancing? What is also true is that according to the Republic Statistics Institute, the average salary paid in May is really lower by 10% than in April and 6.2% than in May last year, which shows that you have managed to break Serbia's standard of living. How do you think that through miserable incomes, you increase demand for Serbian products and business activities, and how do you think there is more employment? Industrial production is lower by 0.5% in May than in May 2012. For the first time since the country's democratic changes, there has been a decline in the value of total loans from 10.8 billion euros to 10.5 billion euros. Otherwise, President Tomislav Nikolic recently said that investors for crime and corruption, otherwise your two favorite words, for which you have no indictment in Serbia, had avoided Serbia until a year ago, President Tomislav Nikolic said, but in a series of his gaffs, a poorly recorded statement. In 2012 and 2013, the investment totalled 400m euros, and during the last government, we already know that by heart, only in 2011 over two billion euros or five times more, respected citizens. In doing so, Nikolic announced investors in the election campaign and said they were standing in line, pushing, just waiting for a new government, shooting the halls of your non-existent office for quick answers, they can't place people physically. Annual investment, you said, will be 10 billion. That's what you all remember, and you're trying to forget. I expect you to realize at least one percent of what you promised. The current economic situation is your best description in the government. In terms of budget rebalances, so I'll quote what you say about this budget. "A strong decline in real income and purchasing power of the population at the end of 2012 and in early 2013, growth in grey market activity, a decline in real traffic in retail sales as a result of the first two factors", not DS, but yourself, "the decline in profitability of the economy in 2012 and the resulting decline of paid dividends, growth of illegal trade in tobacco products etc." That's the result of your government leadership. It's in a sense, which I congratulate you on, back in the '90s, which you love so much. You had to know that the profit tax will be lower due to the downturn in economic activity in 2012, that VAT cannot grow linearly if we have a drop in demand and purchasing power of Serbian citizens, that income tax cannot grow when we have fewer workers and a real profit drop. We told you all this and you threw it all away. Why didn't you cut public companies' expenditures by only 5% and save 30 billion dinars on an annual basis, for example? Why did you decide to open up bankruptcy and sell property at 110 companies with over 30,000 employees in the worst crisis? Instead of making a decision to keep their salaries at minimum profit levels, you'd save 15 billion dinars, and so many people wouldn't stay on the street. Why don't you fire the 10,000 party staff you hired past the competition first and save 10 billion dinars, for example? What about the gondolas? That's what we heard. The Valjevo-Loznica railway, yes, but it is 33 billion dinars guarantee from the Development Fund that God's father does not control, and is controlled by Mladjan Dinkic. We don't know how or by what criteria. If you've rebalanced yourself to be in charge of an additional 800m euros, that's what you've done. You continue with the policy of covering a huge budget minus, borrowing state and citizens. It's something that follows this government, because you've managed to break four billion since you came to power. Only through RTB Bor and Petrochemia will you charge citizens with new commitments of one and a half billion euros, how much you will increase public debt, because you plan to make commitments to 20 of the largest enterprises in restructuring. The Democratic Party is asking the question – did you form a fund of savings that you promised us in public procurement? How much money have you collected so far, as savings of at least 600m euros are expected this year, as you said? That's what we asked for with the amendment, but that's what you refused. If you haven't formed it yet, we expect you to tell us when it will be, because it could save two percent of GDP. The subsidies are still completely non-transparent. The official performance of the economy since 2012 is best talked about the results of the economic measures implemented by this government. Just a very short one. Last year, 107,363 companies operated in Serbia. The net loss has increased by a quarter. It was shown by 31,498 companies, while 7,263 companies failed to submit a financial report. The total financial loss is higher by a terrifying 77.5%, respected government gentlemen. When the line is drawn, the entire economy is reduced to 38,000 healthy enterprises that should carry the burden of the entire society. If something urgent doesn't change, and as we read it, you don't seem to understand something very well, the tragic epilogue of the Serbian economy will be present in the near future. It is clear that this budget rebalancing will only make cosmetic changes, and the decision to move forward after a year of government work only to develop a strategy of analysis and action plans shows the absence of will to solve the real problems of this society. The evident problem in the functioning of education, health care, pension system, state administration, social giving, public enterprises will be left to some more courageous and determined government than this one who will be willing to sacrifice its popularity for a better life for Serbian citizens, not that a man who has no popularity has to sit here alone with us and listen to all of this while they have more important jobs than supporting their coalition partner. The Democratic Party, I conclude, warned six months ago about the consequences of irresponsible economic policy and gave a comprehensive programme to get out of the crisis, concrete measures. Today more than ever, by reading what you've done, by reading this ignorant, sad, last move, attempt, even more, even more strongly, and with full awareness, we're sure that this is the only way and alternative to your pestic, unprofessional, and absolutely time-absorbed power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19970	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19971	I have to admit, I'm very fond of your rock dictionary. You were as if you were psychic when you called your rock group in youth – a generation without a future. You knew exactly what your political party would look like after a certain period. If we move from rocker to economic dictionary, I can only ask you what kind of courage you're talking about when you're criticizing the separation for the transition fund, to solve questions so-called. Former social enterprises in restructuring, which for 10 years swallow 750m euros annually, are subsidized by the state. The whole people pay taxes to be paid for companies that essentially have a perspective, but not a lot of them, and most of them don't. Had there been courage, I suppose the pre-accession negotiations with the EU would have been open during the DS government's mandate, not now. You've lost two years to fight, you personally, to fight for some snowflake there. You forced people not to attend meetings where a candidate or a representative from Pristina appeared, while they lobbyed and received political points. They made a whole bust in front of the UN two years ago, I don't know the Declaration, Serbia will, you were then deputy foreign minister or assistant, anyway. What's the matter with that resolution? You have been distracting the people for years, talking about Europe, and this Europe has not come to us at all. What did our government do? No thanks to me, thanks to our prime minister, first Deputy Prime Minister, Vice-President Suzanne Grubjesic, in less than a year we have cut off everything that has been stiff in previous years. Was it cowardly or courageous and was it in Serbia's interest or not? What you were saying, you shouldn't have done. You were afraid, you don't say. You were afraid of how the opposition would react then and you were afraid of how the people would react. Why weren't you braver? You were also more afraid of the economy. How do you think there'll be more money for science today, if you've left us with a debt of unpaid toll bills, health institutions, recycling companies, local self-government, worth 13 billion dinars? If you have left us with dubiosis, various banks of Vojvodina, the new 200m-euro Agrobanks, directly another 400m euros indirectly on various failed recapitalisations you have performed. What are you talking about? You're talking about 2012. It's the year of the government of the DS. It is true that it has been the worst year in the last 12 years in Serbia's history in the economy. That's right, 2012. The first year of the government's term of office is essentially this year 2013. What can we say when we compare those two years? It's not a great situation right now, that's what I was talking about here to the MPs, but last year, while you ran the economy, Serbia had four consecutive quarters, a GDP decline. ( Bozidar Djelic, from the place: It's not us, it's you. Then who is it? Is Mirko Cvetkovic? I wasn't in government last year at all, people. So admit what's true. I will always stand behind what is true. So, the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, to be absolutely concrete, DS, achieved a four-way quarter of last year's GDP decline. The first quarter of GDP has now increased 2.1%. Industrial production is more 4.2% in the first five months. Did she fall in May compared to last month? Djelic admitted it publicly yesterday. Yes, but do you know why? Because we had Easter in May this year, and we didn't have it in May last year, so there were more days off and that's just it. When you look at the battery for five months, it's a growth of 4.2%, exports rise 21%, the external trade deficit is one-fifth lower, unemployment rate stopped, down 1.4% than in April last year, inflation was 2% and it was 12%, though 2% in five months, but still, in the first five months of last year it was dramatically higher. The budget deficit is lower by the first six months by 12% than in the same period last year. It'll be lower by the end of the year by 1.5% of GDP, and here it is now lower by 12%. So, what am I saying? The situation isn't great right now, but it was catastrophic while the DS ran the government. What is surprising to me, however, is that as a former reform and democratically-oriented party, you do not support measures that have the support and support of both businesses and trade unions and the World Bank and the expert public, to finally put an end to the losses of enterprises in restructuring, that those companies that can operate independently are allowed to work on the market. It's not true that 140,000 people work in them. You're telling the truth. It's 54,000 people, and it's not true that all of them will work because many of them will work in companies that will remain state-owned, such as RTB Bor. Only in RTB Bor of those 54,000 works 5,000. Five-year-old 4,000. It will not be companies that will fail, on the contrary, some will remain state-owned, some will find strategic partners. There are companies that have been doing nothing for 20 years and keep it meaningless, allowing them to spend their electricity without paying, not paying taxes, utility services. I know it was easier for you to push things like that under the rug and you didn't want to get that problem solved. However, if you do not want to give us support to do so, which is useful for this economy, at least keep quiet about it, do not talk about it. What kind of 100 million are you talking about for the agencies? Do you know what that is? Ten billion dinars. Find me that budget item, don't make it up, don't exaggerate, it doesn't exist. Ten billion dinars, that's huge. I'm not saying there's no irrationality in agency work, but let's do the right numbers. What can't I understand? How is it possible that in this assembly, opposition from all other parliamentary clubs are sharply critical of the arguments of the budget, and that you must serve the false, only your parliamentary club, and applaud yourself theatrely? If it's any pleasure to you, it's okay, you don't have to, you applaud yourself, you applaud yourself, you're theater, you're exaggerating, you're not telling the truth. The nine billion-euro debt was increased during the finance minister and prime minister from the DS. So, the fact is, someone asked me about interest, of course we have a huge problem and we're absolutely worried about how in the coming years we're going to pay the interest that increased in the DS mandate, while your prime minister led. That is a serious problem. That's why no one's gonna get caught up in this job that I'm running right now, because it's a huge problem to find funds for regular pension payments, salaries to teachers, doctors, cops in the coming years. It's not easy at all, it's only possible if we increase economic activity and we work on it. If you don't want to help us with constructive criticism and suggestions, I can understand and it's okay when you say and ask why science has less, it's a legitimate question. My question is, why aren't they on the payroll like anyone in the state service? They're being held now as some contracts, specialized services, as in class 4, instead of being paid. Why don't we know exactly how many scientists there are, that we know who we're funding, like this, project funding, we don't know what it's going to be? If someone invested in science, I did it myself as a finance minister by 2006 from the National Investment Plan, during the government of Vojislav Kostunica, never more funds in the equipment for science have been invested, never again in the last 12 years, realistically, ever again, realistically, everyone knows that. But let's see, I know, Mr. Djelic, that you've promoted as the most important achievement of your dinosaur museum in Svilinc, but if that's science. What we have to do in the next period is, as far as I'm concerned, you have the right to speak and say whatever you want, I'll always answer if it's not true. What is very important to Serbia is that we have a wider front for the necessary simultaneous reforms in the economy. The one who was afraid of reform is no longer there and they don't have to support it. Those who want and who show that they can be brave, they will go forward and these controversial remarks of people who once called themselves a generation without a future, we are not interested. Hopefully, it doesn't matter if your party is a generation without a future, it's important that the people of Serbia have a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19972	Right on line, the head of the URS parliamentary group, Vladimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19973	What did we hear for a second? Irony, feminism, sarcasm and on the other side of the moaning, crying. I know it's hard for you. It's not too late for you to study. Here, you have good examples of colleagues from the DSS and LDP. They had great discussions, lots of good proposals, real criticisms, those criticisms this parliament deserves to hear. I don't know who wrote that information to you, obviously he doesn't have a clue or he's malicious. You constantly manipulate these data on the number of employees, unemployed. Of course, it's manners. I don't know what you're trying to accomplish. You mention, Mr. Stefanovic, I've already explained it several times. Thirty, now 40,000, I don't know how you've increased that number of unemployed since the beginning of the year, I repeat again to you, so not all those who applied to the Bureau lost their jobs, someone finished primary school, high school, and applied, let the housekeeper decide to look for a job or someone who was inactive. So, that data you're using sucks. You have made several proposals, to increase investment in infrastructure, in purchase, to reduce administration. So who's been defending you for the whole last term? Why didn't you do that? Well, you weren't working, of course. You've increased the administration to the unconscious, you're the king of party employment. Let me give you a suggestion at the end. I know what your key problem is, you're not in power, you're not in a big party anymore, I think it's wise to collectively join the SNS, solve with one blow of two problems. You're becoming a big party. That's what my countrymen from the Fireman do, the entire Democratic Party has moved to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19974	Please don't speak to the MPs. Time's up. Mr. Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19975	You're right, Mr. President, they're running out of time, but they don't know it yet, so they're making such great suggestions that we all join the SNS, they say those who wore your prison suits and other nice things. It was even fun to listen to Minister Dinkic and Mr Ilic but, the truth is, all the data we present is confidential, accurate, repeatedly out loud and we knew that this time, as well as about the rebalancing of the previous one, as well as about the budget of the previous one, as well as every time you missed by two billion and now say – that is not true. Otherwise, it's this URS methodology that this government has accepted, that out of 2%, it's made 5, to make a profit out of the loss. So when you say -- it's not true that 40,000 people lost their jobs, then I tell you -- if you believe that, according to the URS methodology, things went even lower in this Serbia, but you just keep talking, people believe you endlessly in everything you say. By the way, the name of that group you mentioned at the time was, I already told you, a normal thing, and since you said I was psychic, knowing that you would probably be the eternal minister and economic magma of this country, it's no wonder that that's the name of the group. But that's better than a monetary coup, as was your group's name, so you applied it to all Serbian citizens. That's it. Now you measure what's better. Otherwise, it is not correct to speak – your government, your government. It's just an amazing phenomenon that exists in Serbia. The SPS and the URS say they have ruined Serbia in the past government, and in this government they are saving Serbia. You don't think anyone in Serbia will... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... As the young say, to find out what you're doing in this country. You're talking about a snowflake. That snowflake is a dream for this power, Mr. Dinkic. They only knew how to say yes at the negotiations. You know what a snowflake is for them? Mountain, Mr. Dinkich. Of course I still have a lot to tell you, I expect to get a word after that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19976	Replica, Mr. Arsic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19977	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm ready to go back to some things and into the past, especially if someone says this government is harmful. I also remember when the parliament of the Republic of Serbia changed the same minister Dinkic, then governor, to non-existent MPs. They voted from Bodrum, I think, if we're going to go back. Also, when someone starts talking about these big numbers, big investments, where are those investments? Where'd they go? What about them? Where are your big investors? Or it could lie in the data that during 2010, the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia sold a billion and 500m euros in foreign exchange reserves, while the daily liquidity of the banking sector decreased by, you see, exactly the same amount, 160m dinars. You had investors buying state records of values broadcast by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, your minister in that same government, on 24% interest. It's investment. What about the investments in 2011? The National Bank of the Republic of Serbia sold a billion and 450m euros in foreign exchange reserves, and the same amount again decreased the daily liquidity of the banking sector because it was again state records of high interest values. (President: Time. If it's an investment, it's an honor. And when you mention inflation, as of January 1st this year, it's at 2.2%. I wish you could boast for the first six months of 2012, when you were in power, with that information.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19978	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Ilic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19979	Mr. Stefanovic, that mess you left in the state has been transferred to your party and I don't know how it's going to end. Don't worry about our fate. We show you that we are going to last and that we will last and work responsibly. Let me remind you again, Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Bank, you've heard from the minister, for 600m euros. That's why we're doing rebalancing today. You say - and this government is in debt. I don't know what reason it's due. It's due to pay 90 billion interest and pay off the loans you took, it has to take three billion new loans. That's your score again. How long has this replacement been going on? Do you really believe that no one in Serbia knows that until a year ago you held all the strings in your hands? When you mention that we were together with you, along with the SPS, you must know, Serbian citizens in particular, that you had complete control over all of us, that none of us could make any decision without you. So your prime minister had to consult with your party summit, too. You know who controlled the Prime Minister and don't talk to us about our role in this government. It is proportionate to our participation in this government and our trust that we have received from the citizens. You then had maximum trust and maximum responsibility and don't hide behind us anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19980	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19981	A man to hide behind something, there has to be something, and in this case that condition is not fulfilled. Otherwise, Minister Dinkic did not answer any questions, except you said the data was not correct. We've brought things out very precisely here. You say, "That's not true, and that's what's done." By the way, I noticed you said Easter was influencing. And we think it affected negative numbers during the month, but since your government was able to move the aflatoxin level, to declare a small prom successful, you can move Easter. What's wrong, just get the regulations and move Easter. Take that as advice. Otherwise, in a series of insolent things that have been brought here to the DS side, and I have to mention, although they haven't mentioned us, since I'm really already bored dealing with only two MP groups from the government, the funniest thing is, as Prime Minister Dacic would say, that we ran the economy. You say Almighty Mirko Cvetkovic controlled it all. He kept you, as you say, tight and he wouldn't let you move. In the end, he was even able to be the only man in Serbia, left in gold letters, which fired Mladjan Dinkic. So you haven't answered a single question. You have not answered when the stents will be and the wages will be paid to those who are not, and you know there are many in Serbia. When are you in this country going to solve the debt tolls that your coalition partners from the SPS have made? You mention paths with harmonicas, so ask them why the asphalt is the tiniest in Europe and the most expensive? Do you speak to each other at all? Talk a little bit about it, not just to send you here in front of us to explain to us every time that we absolutely can't hit the truth in the air. You say, "We applaud ourselves." You who never got one round of applause outside the URS in this room. And you hold our sermons. I call upon the SNS to reward your minister with a single strong applause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19982	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19983	Thank you for all these questions. He who has written in gold letters in history because he has cast me out of the government will remember him for so long that I am simply ashamed of how much he will remember, and some others will not. Now where is this Mirko Cvetkovic who has gold letters written in the history of the DS? Where are those who took me from the governor's post? Something seems to me like I'm here and they're gone in politics, but good. When you talk about who ran the economy, I didn't run it in 2012. I wasn't in government in 2012, that's all I said. But it is true that in the previous term, I brought "Fiat" to Serbia, as the first exporter at present, that I brought half of these first 15 exporters with my team to Serbia, and I will tell you what companies they are. It's "Jura", "Golden Lady", "Fire" and "Leoni". So, from the list of the first 15 exporters of the minority half is, and "Fiat" is, of course, in the first place, brought in then. What I wanted to tell you, in 2012, which was the worst year for Serbia, was led by your prime minister from DS, Mirko Cvetkovic and you had a minister of finance, the same Mirko Cvetkovic, the reform. I'm just talking about these facts. You said there wouldn't be money for irrigation. Then you didn't read the budget very carefully. If you had read, you could have seen that we had provided a $400m guarantee for the Abu Dhabi Development Fund loan, exclusively for agriculture, of which more than half will go right to build a irrigation system, not just in this one, because it is impossible to do these works in this year, but in the coming years. The second part will be for distribution, farmers for different equipment. As for some issues related to other resolutions, the finance minister cannot make budgets for other ministers. We have sat down and established that our budget deficit in Serbia cannot be greater than 4.7% of GDP this year. Each minister took responsibility to cut the budget for those he felt were not necessary. I am sure, given that the Health Services Fund has a surplus of eight billion dinars in the last five months, it has enough money to buy all the necessary equipment and re-promoting for all health institutions in Serbia. If the equipment is missing somewhere, it is good to warn and ask that such equipment be delivered as soon as possible. Serbia must have money for stents and must have money to treat people. Certainly, considering that the Health Fund is just one of the institutions that has surpluses this year, there will be no problem in financing all of this, but then you have to see if something is going on in the organization if there is some kind of re-promatter missing somewhere.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19984	Mr. Kasalovic, would you like a word on behalf of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19985	Thank you, Mr. President. What I'm saying is that the SPS doesn't want to participate in these demagogue discussions. Yesterday, we called for one responsible and general social approach to public finances, which we consider to be all of us, not individual political parties, but all citizens. As who worked and how much who did it, we SPS tested it and checked it out in the election. But DS can't run away from responsibility when it comes to finance. The information we found at the beginning of this government's mandate is known. There were a lot of unknown data, unscheduled money for pension payments and salaries. Of the two ministers who were in that mandate, the last assured us that the IMF had not broken the arrangement with us, and that was one of the main arguments on the validity of the financing. I would like to say that, as far as I remember, the LDP has launched, or initiated a Finance Committee requiring such a report – has it broken the arrangement with the IMF? The Prime Minister and then the finance minister assured us that it was not true. Unfortunately, it turns out that such financial management literally drove the IMF away, and we are confident that this is the ultimate way to confirm the credibility of public finances. It's one of the data in which finance was managed in the previous period and I don't think there's any reason to run away from the responsibility of any kind, nor us for what we were responsible for in the previous and current government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19986	The word has been sent by the people, Djordje Milicevic. Here you go. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: On what basis? )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19987	No, it's not a replica, it's in order. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm reporting in order, not by the line, to clarify that at the beginning. I have to say right away I have no intention of talking about the past. He learns from the past and learns from the past. It is certain that for hours and days here in the Republic Parliament we can make our differences about what was in the past period and what was before 2000 and what was after 2000, but I do not see that it will bring any positive effect and will be in the interest of the citizens of Serbia. Today we're talking about a budget rebalancing proposal. In the next few days, we will talk about other proposals that are one real reference to the government's current developments in the area of economy. When we talk about rebalancing, there's always a question, can it be better? Here the question is something different – can it be more realistic? Could this proposal have been more realistic, could this proposal have been fairer, could this proposal have been fairer, and could there have been any proposal that would meet these criteria, and that this does not mean freezing wages and pensions, and that this does not mean on the other hand abolishing social benefits? We think it doesn't exist. If he exists, we'll always be happy to support him. So, looking at the proposals we are talking about in the Republic Parliament these days, it is clear that the negative effects of the economic crisis will not destabilise the state and it is clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has come up with concrete proposals and has offered responsible solutions that are in the interests of the citizens, which are not burdensome and to the damages of the most socially endangered category of the population. Savings will, should and must be a priority, but savings at the level of the state – savings, reduction of unnecessary costs, not savings on citizens. Because, we'll agree, the standard of living is not at the desired and envious level. So it can't be saved where it isn't, but where it is. No cuts in salary and pensions. Anyone can do that. The question arises: Is there anyone else or any new solution? So it can't be saved on citizens because living standards aren't at an envious level. It can't be saved on 400,000 pensioners with an average income of 12,000 dinars. The savings are not real, it is not responsible and it would not get Serbia out of the economic crisis. So there is no reduction in wages and pensions, and that is important, I repeat, but on the other hand, the issue of salary growth and pensions must be in line with the economic situation in which Serbia is today. A restrictive policy is needed. There's absolutely no dilemma, no doubt. What does this restrictive policy mean? Reduce unnecessary costs, increase investment efficiency and a good analysis of the subsidy policy, whether there is economic profitability, whether there is economic justification. But on the other hand, we have to make it possible for the government to make it possible, how we can and how we can develop in the next period. Budget revenue is definitely not at the level of the planned. The deficit can also be resolved by borrowing, but it is not good, it is not responsible, as the larger budget deficit would undermine the country's macroeconomic stability and therefore the measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are aimed at reducing costs through the proposed budget rebalance. What's the point? The goal we fully support is the stability of the financial system and enhanced activities that will increase business activity, but also the standard of living of citizens, on the other hand. What we think is very important and very positive and that it is good that the government has recognised some important segments and elements of the budget deficit. When I say important segments and elements of the budget deficit, I mean public enterprises, the public sector, and I mean enterprises in restructuring. When it comes to public enterprises, there is no dilemma, and we fully support it, it must be cheaper and have to be more efficient. It's true, we all know, there are definitely extra employees in the public sector. But that question cannot be solved by radical cuts by firing 500, 1000 or 1500 employees. What is necessary for Serbia and what is needed is a fundamental reform of the public sector. Coalition partners in the SPS will always have support for essential public sector reform. We can't, and we can't stop at one law on the maximum number of employees in the state administration. We need to take the next step, which is more important, which will go towards the fundamental reform of the public sector. The second element or second segment of the budget deficit, which has also been recognised, are enterprises in the restructuring process. It's a good thing this process is finally over. It's taking a long time. I think it lasts about 13 years in Serbia. What's important, I don't think we'd dare at this point to bid a date out of, simply, one fear, out of fear that businesses don't lose the resources that exist at the moment. So, looking at this rebalancing, looking at the proposals we're going to talk about in the coming days, it's clear, the government of the Republic of Serbia is facing reality and these proposals are one step forward and one step forward that leads to, I would say, a good direction. These proposals say that the government is leading both responsible and real and practical, I would say, economic policy. These proposals say the government is also leading an active policy. So, in a realistic way, it looks at what the current problems are today, it goes to problems and offers responsible solutions that are in the citizens' interest. It is not Serbia before bankruptcy, there is no problem with liquidity, but what is important and what we must do in the next period of time – we must recover and start the economy. A fundamental problem in public finances, I think the minister also spoke about, is a minor inflow in the budget, and that means that economic activity is not at the level planned and on the other hand, perhaps there is a part of the gray economy that is not affected by state control. Therefore, the launch of economic activity is an necessity during the economic crisis. It takes a long-term, not a short-term strategy for a few years, but a long-term strategy and a high social growth rate. The growth strategy and development strategy must be consistent and consistent with all social factors. So, it's not a good situation. There's a discrepancy, there's different opinions. But what is extremely important and what needs to be achieved is a broad social consensus. That is why we fully support the talks that are being held, the agreements that have been reached and that will be reached at the relation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, employers and businessmen, or trade unions. Of course, any future system law should right now be the result and the fruit of those agreements. When I say system law, first of all I mean the draft labour law, and with one clear goal, to increase investment, to increase employment, and on the other hand to protect the fundamental rights of workers in Serbia. We have said more than once - the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot be realised without the economic recovery of the state. In order for an economic recovery to occur, it is necessary to launch the economy and, as I said, there is a long-term strategy for a minimum period of ten years, to launch production. We agree, there are three hundred thousand people in Serbia in production who can support four million people in Serbia. Investments, capital, infrastructure projects need to be launched and completed, as there is no economic without infrastructure development and investment in investment, capital projects, infrastructure projects is the only realistic approach and guarantee that Serbia can solve the burning issue, which is the issue of unemployment. That is why we believe that exactly the least savings should be on investment, and reduce costs that will not have implications for macroeconomic stability. It would be good if by the end of this financial year, the government of the Republic of Serbia could find the opportunity to find funding in the budget for all those investments foreseen at the beginning of this financial year. Saving is, it has to be, and it has to be a priority, and it's absolutely not a question. These proposals will save 36 billion dinars, which has already been said, but saving in itself is not enough. It is also necessary to increase revenue and it is necessary and necessary to improve the investment climate in Serbia. So, the government wants to address the consequences of these proposals, it is absolutely not controversial, it wants to patch up those budget gaps which, unfortunately, currently exist, but on the other hand, must create an attractive investment environment and must continue with the reform processes in Serbia. Without these processes, we won't see and we won't have positive effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19988	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19989	Your discussion has really given me one reason to point out that again. When partial criticism is made of some cost-effective items of the budget, this is exactly what you're talking about. There is nowhere else to be saved except what we have proposed, because two-thirds of Serbia's budget makes up salaries, pensions and social contributions, in fact, even more, three-quarters, 75% of the budget is all this, and the rest are investments, discretionary expenditures, subsidies and all that has now been the subject of sex. When someone says – why is not an even lower budget deficit and when they say – we have reserves according to this achievement, then they should clearly say which is the alternative, what else could have been reduced from the expenditure, if we did not cut these expenditures that we are. Then you come to this field that you were talking about, it's just wages and pensions. When the IMF made proposals to save additionally from what we did, including the Fiscal Council in part, they meant directly to cut wages and pensions. Our government was against it. So citizens need to know that more savings than this are not possible without reducing wages and pensions, and not minimal, but drastic. It is, however, a scenario that certainly introduces Serbia into stagnation, bringing us back to those negative growth rates of gross domestic product from the previous year. We wanted to avoid it at all costs. What's the alternative now? On the other hand, we mustn't have too high a budget deficit because borrowing is expensive. We do not want to be in debt, but we are forced because of the previous period and because of the discrepancies now of income and expenditure. So it's not our desire to be in charge, it's a must, as citizens, something they have to buy. If they don't have where they come from, they have to borrow somehow and finance it. So our strategy is exactly what you were talking about, improving the business climate, better tax collection, and that's why there will be no tolerance. The most important thing for me from this assembly debate is that most MPs and ruling parties and opposition, yesterday and today, gave full support to zero tolerance for not paying taxes. We have to increase the charge, it's the only way to raise our budget revenues, without raising taxes, but that the current taxes are all paying equally to make everyone equal, so that everyone has equal operating conditions, and then to finance the investments that you've been talking about with that money. It is bad when investment is reduced and we've been reducing it for reasons that we have on the other hand and loans that we haven't withdrawn for investment. But the fact is, it would be better if we had money from both the loans and directly from the budget. It would certainly have a greater effect on the economy. Thank you for your discussion, that's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19990	Unfortunately, I cannot give you a replica because you have no right to use time because you are not on the list of speakers, and the time you have as an authorised representative has been spent. I have no basis to give you my word. The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19991	Dear President, dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when the budget was on the agenda, many said it was unrealistic and optimistic. With the planned revenues of 965.7 billion dinars, expenditures of 1,087.6 billion dinars, a deficit of 121.9 billion that was supposed to be below 3.3% of GDP, that was. Already in the period before the first term, the deficit reached 93.6 billion dinars, which is 4.9% higher than the corresponding period for the past year. It became clear to everyone that there was a need for budget rebalance. Thus, they reduced revenues, small expenditures, increased the planned deficit, and distributed 36 billion dinars of savings per ministry by some key. These measures are administrative, and essential reforms have nothing to do with it. The unemployment rate is growing. Public enterprises are hoarding debts. There is no restructuring, there is no separation, people are still employed in public enterprises with a party book. There are, however, opening up new jobs for 10,000 euros, but workers continue to lose jobs. It makes much more sense for me to stimulate the preservation of existing jobs than to create new and expensive jobs. Raise public sector wages by 0.5% I don't know what it means. In reality, I don't know if it's an increase, a decrease or a stagnation. It all depends on the financial situation. It would certainly be fairer for those who have large salaries and pensions to be reduced by a higher percentage, adding to those who have minimum incomes. This would reduce the difference between poor and slightly richer. Mr. Minister, if someone was listening to your exposure yesterday, someone who wasn't familiar with the situation in this country, he'd think we were living in heaven. All is well, all the problems have been solved, only the promised thousand euros for action should arrive. The real situation is unfortunately completely different. We all know when the public company is in financial trouble and when it does not deliver a good financial result, then there are two solutions. They either change beds, or they change workers. I'm afraid we're doing what we've been doing for many years now, just changing beds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19992	Mr. Djelic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19993	I'm advocating a violation of the 107th violation of the National Assembly's dignity because false data has been presented, it's about science. The truth is next, and I'm asking everyone to check it on budget data. It is not true that in 2006 the most invested in science was. During the NIP, 27m euros were invested in equipment in two cycles. During my term of office, exactly 11.3 times higher, i.e. 305m euros and that: 50m euros for equipment, tenders are almost all over, 40m euros for consumer material, because it was found that it could be made cheaper and there were problems with equipment that remained unpacked earlier because there was no money in the budget for consumable material. The rest of the money 215m euros is, not for some dinosaurs in Svilinc, and I think that it hurt the dignity of not only the Svilincans but those who work at a natural centre that will be an educational centre for some 250,000 young people from all over Serbia to learn as their peers in the region how the country formed, to learn about geology, about life. This is where you work with the Natural History Museum, with adequate colleges, and it's a serious institution such as the serious investment that Petnica has all had the right to be proud of. I was proud to be a minister when nine million euros were invested in its total reconstruction and I'm sorry that this government doesn't have a single dollar for it today, because the two, three million dinars that are given is very little, that I'm not saying that the building for scientists on block 32 is almost finished. When it comes to innovation technologies, we've provided money to end the Starstar science and technology park after 20 years, 16,000 squares that have been completed and that somehow this government can't drive. We urge him to do so. I don't want to talk about Novi Sad, two tranches for a science and technology park there, a recession building and a nanotechnology facility in Belgrade and a stem cell centre in Kragujevac. I call on the Government to use these appropriations simply and to have these very important facilities for the future of our knowledge economy be put into operation. That's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19994	The word is Mr. Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19995	First of all, I want to say that definitely a much bigger investment in science started at the time of the government's term of office, Vojislav Kostunica, when I was the finance minister and the National Investment Plan. It stands and it's the first equipment given to our scientific institutes, it's bought by just these means. On the other hand, I'm sure if we had the money to throw away that the Dinosaurus Museum in Svilinco makes sense. I'm not saying we should have such institutions, but surely there are more priorities in science than there was in that museum of dinosaurs in Svilinc. According to the data we have these loans you're talking about have been withdrawn at this point with only 24% of the approved, of the 383m 500,000 euros, 290mm 272,000 euros still unpunished. So, only 24% has been withdrawn, which means that it's not as effectively withdrawn as you're saying and that it certainly has to be accelerated. I also support this out of all strength and our government's development of a complete IT industry, so we approved that ETF would get to use the former "Lole" building so that it could expand capacity and enroll more students in the direction of information technologies because it really is the perspective of our science and general industry. I support the projects that you have launched for technology parks, there is no dilemma about both Belgrade and Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, it is all well launched. Unfortunately, it wasn't realised during your term, but we'll do everything we can to complete these projects because they're good. I'll never say that something you've been doing is not good if it is good. It's a fundamental difference from one of your behaviors, but it's your right. Now let me respond to the previous MP. If there were no previous subsidies that you criticise up to 10,000 euros per new job, half of these exporters would not currently work in Serbia. Serbia would still be a country where everyone would complain about why Serbia has no export. You can't have goats and money. If you want "Fiat," and if Romanians offer them certain incentives, you have to give something bigger to get. If the Slovaks could do so, they also re-industrated Slovakia in automotive electronics and information technologies. Yeah, they gave money, ten years in a row to get some companies to come to them. They did, and it'd be better if they didn't have to. I would prefer that Serbia does not give, but what you need to know, when you say save existing jobs, is more important than opening new jobs. Partly correct, if we're talking about the perspective industry, but completely incorrect if we're talking about losers. What good is it if we have a fictitious job and the state loses 750 million a year? Another thing is that big demagogy, not one dinar of these incentive funds, when we talk about these 10,000 euros, incentives, is not given in good sight, but with 100 per cent covered bank guarantee and is given equally to domestic and foreign entrepreneurs and businesses. Greater incentives are always more able to use multinational companies, because they have the opportunity to give a bank guarantee, and many of us can also participate, if they can from real business cover the banking guarantee, and many have used it. It's Serbian business or the work of Serbian citizens, not about the nation, that we always complain about how guilty we are, because we're not successful now, so they say -- give me 10,000 euros per new employee, so I can show you how to do it. Who's stopping these people from coming and taking that money? They have a little problem, they need to give a bank guarantee, so the state knows who he's giving the money to, so that someone doesn't cheat on her, because it's happened that some projects haven't been successful. There was a project in Vranj that was not successful. It was in other cities, but the state ended up pulling all the bank guarantees, and the dinar didn't lose. The citizens have lost. So if you look again at that list of the first 15 exporters, thanks to these incentives that you criticise "Fiat" came to Serbia, number one exporter, "Tiger Tyres" thanks to these incentives goes to double and triplicate the capacity in Pirote, auto-gum products and are currently Serbia's third largest exporter, over 100m euros in the first six months of this year, "Jura" has opened four factories in Serbia, for two years it employs five thousand people. You criticized them. What do you pay them? When they first came to the cabinet, they didn't know where Serbia was, let alone where Raca was, they really didn't know about us. When you give them an incentive, they pay the Serbian builders first with money to build them factories and most of that money ends up right in the hands of our builders, and then they hire workers and pay taxes and contribute to wages. For one dinar of incentives, seven return to the budget. From that vomit, we are then giving new incentives and it is the best programme ever to encourage investment designed, first in Slovakia, which our government has applied since 2006, even during my first term as finance minister. Let me move on, Golden Lady, two factories in Serbia, 100m euros in stocking exports to Russia for 100m euros annually. Finally, Burning, three factories in Serbia. Valjevo is now open, expanded with 40,000 squares, the largest refrigerator and cooling plant in this part of the region, has also expanded the production of boilers in Pazova and we will sign a new contract Monday to expand the plant in Zajecar, where it will produce 450 thousand washing machines annually. The majority will be placed on the Russian Federation market. All of this, thanks to different kinds of incentives. What we want to do now, to continue with this program, because thanks to this program, "Geox" and "Ditre" will go to Vranje this summer to build their factories. There's Johnson Electric from Hong Kong, Nis, Leoni in Doljevac, the American company "Cooper Standard" started building in Sremska Mitrovica, and when someone says that this government didn't bring investors, just listen to what's on my mind right now, and there's a lot more. Gucci has come to Ruma, there will be more investors. Of course, it hasn't been a year since the new government, and some of these investments will only materialise in the next period, but we're not satisfied. You're right about that. I don't want to get the impression that honey and milk flow, because that's not the case, because as long as every municipality in Serbia and all regions don't get any factory like what I've listed, because every region has to have one Fiat, this guy's factory, I don't mean just the automotive industry, so Serbia can move forward. However, this is not done by criticism of these measures, but by criticism of measures that are not good, because it is certain that there are many things that are not good, but don't hit on what is best and what is done in this country and in the economy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19996	Replica, Carol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19997	Mr. Minister, no one argues that he has good results, he has success, but he also has failure. However, what is success, you always attribute to yourself, and for failures are always some others' faults. I'm not saying it's your fault, but you're certainly responsible because you're the finance minister. Yesterday when you started your presentation, you said he had a lot of problems, and you inherited those problems. I don't know, Mr. Minister, who did you inherit these problems from, and when could you inherit it, since you've been head of finance in this country for more than 10 years and you're the one who dresses bright and bright? If you know what to do, you've always said, we're going to do this, and now we're going to do this, and we're just about to listen to it for more than 10 years. However, if you know so much about the reforms that need to be implemented, why haven't you done it for the past few years? If you haven't implemented those reforms in 10 or 12 years, I ask you when will you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19998	Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u19999	Did you ever wonder why they always call me government after the election? I'm seriously asking, have you ever wondered? Could this government have formed without my party? She could have. The government has a majority now and earlier that is comfortable and can be without 16 representatives of the URS. Why did Kostunica call me in government, why did Boris Tadic call me? Why didn't you ever ask yourself that? Next thing I know, I've never given in to someone else's feathers, but I'm not letting anyone give a shit about what my people did. I've always been a teamworker, but many wanted this teamwork to cancel, and that resulted in these famous gold letters being written out of the government by Mirko Cvetkovic, because before the elections, someone wanted to fully own the Fiata project for political popularity, so they painted some of those cars, so they wouldn't let me go to the factory opening, nor Bojan Pajtic for "Sirmium silo" in Subotica, even though we made sure that they invested there. It was a disaster, not to mention Vranjska Banja and the drive of a serious investor for Banish tourism from Great Britain or what the Falke celebration looked like, it was to be amazing. It's something to forget. What's a fact, I wasn't the finance minister of this country, or that I wasn't from 2007 until last year. It wasn't me, I wasn't out front, and I wasn't wearing financials. The DS and its personnel ran Serbia's public finances, starting in 2007 through the middle of last year and for everything that happened in the country's financial sector, the sole responsibility from 2007 to 2012 is for DS personnel. It's a simple fact. I have responsibility for the period from 2004 to 2006, when from the budget minus that Djelic left us from 4% of GDP, and plus 2% of GDP, and without the privatisation revenues from "Mobtel", because the privatisation revenues do not enter the final budget score, they are recorded below the line. Many say, yes, he did it because he sold "Mobtel". I'm telling you -- no, "Mobtel" is an addition to the already achieved surplus in 2006 and then a large non-taxable income was made from selling a third licence for 360m euros, which was five times more than the funds achieved in any country in the environment. So, I'm proud of what I did when I was Minister of Finance. It's true that I found a catastrophic state after seven years of cheer and dress, as you said, of DS personnel with public finances. It is true that Dacic and Vukic gave me the trust to run financials in this government and I will never complain about it before you, let alone in front of them. I know how hard this is, but I'm not going to complain. We were able to do as much now as, so much as reduce that huge deficit from the previous period, that as much as, we pay off some of the debts that we inherited both for the Development Bank and Agrobank and for the recycling and for the tolls. I don't know how much more of these debts came out of the drawers that DS personnel left behind, but it has to be paid off, move forward and try to make something happen. What hasn't been done is because of the fear of losing popularity. What's the truth? The truth is that then, the DS leader was afraid to go into essential reforms and into the inside, means in Serbia, and towards the outside, according to Europe, above all, because he was afraid of losing popularity. That's the living truth. In the end, even though he wasn't brave and was afraid of losing his popularity, that's where he lost his popularity, and that's it. This government's strategy is completely different. I won't speak for me alone. I don't have a problem doing some hard work. They may be unpopular, but if they're useful to the state, for the future of our generation, I'll do it. I've already told you, it's not my place to be popular, but to have some future generations appreciate what I did after a while. They don't have to appreciate today. As for my colleagues, what they did to Dacic and Vukic in the previous period. Well, all of what the DS people were running away to do. They were afraid. I don't just know what they were afraid of. Was there something wrong with Serbia that opened up before the EU negotiations, and is Serbia missing something that was arrested by people who stole in the previous period? What we need, we need to have institutions that will truly honorably, honestly do the job and not allow the pillar of shame to be placed equally and those who deserve it and those who don't deserve it. In that sense, I am not satisfied with that part of our current social scene, where some tabloids dominate, who really from time to time and people who are in power, in opposition or are unrealistic public figures, and for a reason, but often for no reason, put on a pillar of shame. I got 20 convictions against one of those tabloids in the previous period. I charged 80 grand. What good is it to me to know that a large part of Serbia believes that I am a thief? Now in the last month, I've filed six more charges for damages in private. I don't want to complain about it. If I have to, I'll go to the courts, defend as much honor as I can. I'm used to being attacked. I've been attacked for 12 years, I can do it for the next 12 years. It's important that we do something for this Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20000	Thank you. National MP Bozidar Djelic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20001	Replica, we've been mentioned. Today is on the agenda for rebalancing, not on the agenda for political analysis. As I said yesterday, I'll repeat, when you're a parent, then you know that a child sometimes tries to transfer his own responsibility to someone else. When adults do that it's problematic, and when they do it for a number of years, it's already a question for some other analysis, for some other professional services. As far as DS is concerned, first of all I want to find out about science that the minister has confirmed that he did not tell the truth, because if 27% has been withdrawn, 300 million euros, that is 75m euros, that is three times more than what was invested in scientific equipment during the NIP, and what is no longer withdrawn is a question for this government, which simply for all major scientific projects is not progressing. It's not a dinosaur museum, it's a natural center, which our children expect, but maybe someone can't understand. The Democratic Party simply has no other way here, but to speak to the facts. The fact is that from the beginning of the government's work, Serbia's debt has been increased by four billion euros. It's a mathematical fact. If someone thought we were on the verge of bankruptcy, so I guess when a man thinks he's almost bankrupt, it's not his first idea to still be in charge, and that's what this government did. By ten months, it increased the debt of the Republic of Serbia by four billion euros. It's a dry fact, like the dry fact that we have more people today who are unemployed than when she started working. The dry fact is she also missed 1,000m euros in revenue, saying that this is the best budget in the last 20 years, which we have to now, after only six months, change. It's all true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20002	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20003	If it pleases you so much as to speak up for this lie, there's nothing I can do about it, but it's not a dry fact, it's a dry lie. It is now a public debt of 18.9 billion euros and about a billion and 200-300 million is getting bigger than at the end of last year. The empty register left to the new government, I repeat a thousand times, with commitments for farmers, for pensioners, was inherited from the previous one. It can't be the one who walks into a pub where some people used to eat and drink, and they haven't paid the bill, that it's the one who has to pay the bill and that it's his fault. He can pay for them, but it's not his sin, it's the sin of those who drank and ate, and they didn't want to pay this country anything. It is true that we have found a huge debt and that we have had to settle all these obligations to pensioners, farmers, teachers, doctors because otherwise we would not receive salaries and pensions. But responsibility isn't on this government. The government has been responsible for the state of public debt since the New Year's, and beyond, until the end of the term of office. So far, it has increased by about a billion and 300m euros, while in the past four years it has increased by nine billion euros during the DS government's mandate. It is not true your finding that the unemployment rate is now higher. She's very tall today, that's what I said. In April this year, according to the labour force poll, 24.1%, but it was 25.5% a year ago. So 1.4% is lower today. Today, 28 thousand people are looking less for a job than they were a year ago. I'm not saying that a small number of people today don't have jobs, unfortunately, there are a lot of them. Today, 700,000 people are looking for an active job, but a year ago, there were 736 thousand. That's all I'm talking about, that in that sense, at least for one shred of the situation, even though no one claims in the government that it's good enough. We all know how much we have to work together to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20004	Thank you. (Vladimir Ilic, with target: Replica. Mr. Ilic, on what basis are you looking for a word? (Vladimir Ilic, with target: Mr Djelic mentioned our party. ) Mr Djelic did not mention you or your party or our party, so I cannot give you the right to reply. National MP Bozidar Djelic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20005	It's hard to fight numbers and facts. Simply, what country where the finance minister says - let's say, in a year's time to be responsible for what's going on in the country, it doesn't seem right to me that at the end of last year for some future needs of the Serbian guarantee and many other things I somehow pushed into this assembly to be voted? Serbian citizens have had enough of these manipulations. This is a survey you mentioned about the workforce and it says in October 2012 that the unemployment rate was 22.4%, and in April, you're right, your number is correct, we read the same thing, is 24.1%. Until further notice, 24.1 must be more than 22.4% in Serbia. Just to remind ourselves, there were both G17 and SPS and PUPS and other parties in that government. For every financial arrangement, you've voted for every task, gentlemen. Your hands were on the pitcher for all the financial arrangements the previous government voted on. How did you forget, and so did you, Mr. Minister? When you were an MP, you voted for all those loans. Did you forget what your left or right hand was doing a few years ago? If so, I fear for your future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20006	Thank you. The People's Messenger Vladimir Ilic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20007	Evil and negligent manipulation or ignorance can be dangerous, but the most dangerous is manipulation when someone knows and manipulates. That's what we heard now. Yesterday you experienced a crescendo showing that unemployment grew compared to October, and this is simple manipulation, which you know very well. You cannot compare the rate in April with the October rate because seasonal variation plays a role in employment and unemployment. I told you back then, you can't tell in July she's making more grain than January because it's normal and because she's affecting it. So you manipulate here and try to deceive the citizens of Serbia. To many young people in this country... ( Bozidar Djelic from the post: Madam Chairman, he speaks to me personally and says I am a manipulator. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20008	Mr. Ilic, please do not use such expressions in your address to MPs. Please, and don't address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20009	Thank you. I won't. I just wanted to say that to many young people in this country that you were a role model as a young and successful man, that today they learn and acquire knowledge in their dorms, some on their aunt's couches fantasize about being successful. Don't spoil their dream and don't manipulate the data just because you know. I appreciate your knowledge, but that knowledge is dangerous when being manipulated by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20010	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20011	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected chairman and ministers, our fellow citizens know very well about unemployment. They don't need statistics, they know how busy they are. As far as the accounts are concerned, all accounts come when they are paid and these same bills will be paid by the Republic of Serbia. The budget is the most important document to be adopted in parliament, and it is not only the schedule of one state's income and expenditure, it is not just an economic financial document, it is an expression of the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia. What is causing great difficulty in budgeting and looking at all the problems around it is the inherited state, the collapsed system of values in a multi-year period, spent money from successful and failed privatisations, a destroyed industry that should fill that budget, without a clear strategy and will to change anything in the previous period. The rebalance of the Republic of Serbia's 2013 budget envisions a total revenue of 87 3.4 billion dinars or a reduction of 9.6% compared to the 2013 Budget Law. With taxes reduced by 75.6 billion dinars and non-taxes by 16.8 billion dinars. The reasons for reducing budget revenues despite relatively favourable macroeconomic movements are a real decline in income and purchasing power of the population, the growth of the gray zone, the growth of illegal trade primarily in tobacco and the increase in the consumption of cut tobacco, which is directly related to the drop in purchasing power. The decline in real traffic in trade, which also relates to the decline in purchasing power and the growth in the grey zone of business, is again about the percentage of unemployment, or employment of our population. Due to the immediate danger of crisis and public debt in the short term, and in order to stop further debt growth in the medium term, necessary and urgent measures have been proposed to reduce discretionary expenditure, define new rules for planning the mass of wages and pensions for 2014, additional austerity measures in the public sector and continue to implement structural reforms, in particular the completion of the restructuring process, as well as the rationalisation measures in public enterprises and public companies. One of the very important definitions of budget rebalancing is the reduction of subsidies that have always been one of the major items in the budget. World Bank estimates say Serbia gives them about 700m euros annually. From an economic point of view, most subsidies are a waste of money, as our people would say - in a well. With this proposal for budget rebalancing, we're going to come up with some reduction of about 36 billion dinars. The savings achieved in this way would be real and higher, but expenditure in the budget has increased by some six billion dinars by forming a Transition Fund from which one-time payments of 300 euros will settle employees who are jobless in restructuring companies who are found to have no business perspective and future. What it is looking forward to is that direct subsidies in agriculture, i.e. farmers, are not reduced by this proposal, although it is being discussed here in this direction. The measures relating to the expenditure side in this rebalancing are reduced. Reduction of the transfer of the Republic Fund for Pension and Disability Insurance as a result of the amendment of the Law on Contributions to Mandatory Social Insurance, an increase in pension and disability insurance contributions by 2%, and the indexation of public sector wages and pensions to 0.5% in October 2013, 0.5% in April 2014 and 1% in October 2014 and the provision of additional funds for social protection, mention the Transition Fund, recycling obligations and the like. We believe that this proposal for budget rebalancing has a justification, a purpose, that budget savings are proposed in the right positions, and that this way the policy will be implemented, that the budget deficit for 2013 is limited to 4.7% of GDP, which allows the consolidated deficit of the state to be around 5.2% of GDP, while noting that it should persist in full tax discipline, curbing illegal traffic and strict control of the collection of tax obligations, and, above all, rapid economic reform and thus improving the business environment. We can also not look back on the fiscal council's report and the budget rebalancing for 2013. The fiscal council supports a sharp reduction in the fiscal deficit and a halt in public debt, as well as the government's definition of starting major structural reforms. The decision to reach budget rebalances in the middle of the year is also welcomed by the Fiscal Council. The deficit of the rebalancing deficit is believed to be higher by some 22 billion than the expected rebalance and that, apart from indexing wages and pensions in 2014, there is no programme for a more sensitive deficit reduction in the following year. The conclusion for the fiscal consolidation also needs to be carried out reforms that will improve the economic environment. It is warned that public debt continues to grow and can reach a negative level. The IMF agreement is assumed to have a positive impact on the stability of public finances in Serbia, while at the same time guaranteeing investors from financial markets that measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia are sufficiently strong and credible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20012	The word has a national emissary Sanja Cekovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20013	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, within the very little time left for my parliamentary group, I would like to draw a theme on something we haven't discussed. What we agreed on was that the rebalance was created as a result of a poorly estimated budget, i.e. a large reduction in revenue. That doesn't mean it won't happen again, the fiscal council in its rebalancing assessment suggests it's in three items. The fiscal council says the planned revenues will be lower by 15 billion, according to their estimates. In the same report, they say expenditures will be higher by 100 billion and estimate that public debt can grow by up to 65%. These are elements that at the same time we adopt rebalancing create a great opportunity for the rebalancing to have its own rebalancing. What is good, and what the Fiscal Council certainly supports, are the reforms that will happen in the public sector, businesses, self-government, state and public enterprises, but this is the period that awaits us and which, by nature, things of realising these problems must take a few years. What made me, too, very concerned in this whole debate is that we are the only ones in the tax administration expecting revenue. So, we expect another pressure from the private sector, which so far pays regular taxes, contributions and liabilities, and at the same time from this hall, we send them a message that at some point someone has decided, for example, to the Serbian Roads, that they do not pay VAT. (President: Time. ) So we must be correct about the taxpayers. We can't take each and every one of them, and people pay taxes and VAT by raising loans and current loans, and by some we can be without any legal basis mild and lenient.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20014	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20015	Just to tell you that you're absolutely right and that we won't be different arches to different taxpayers. If that was the case maybe in the past, it certainly won't happen. If you ever have any concrete objections, always call me or the Director of the Tax Administration, because our position, us who run both the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, is that we have to have equal criteria for everyone. If there's any biased behavior at the bar, we may not even know it, it's a big organization, tax administration. Let me know as a P.O. or whoever it is. We really want to have the same criteria. If there's a deviation in implementing it in practice, we'll intervene, we just need to get information. There's something else I need to tell you. You're not the only ones who are worried. I am certainly the most worried in Serbia about the state of public finances. That's not what I'm hiding. However, it's not the only map on which we, conditionally speaking, have played a better tax charge. It is an important element, because we see space in the growth of the gray economy in the previous years that we can legalize one part there. We'll do anything to raise economic activity. It is clear to us that dry drenov cannot be drained and that we have to strengthen our business activity and through this we manage to reduce the participation of expenditure in GDP and public debt, so that in some ways we keep the same category nominally, but that GDP is growing, so that theirs falls more frequently into GDP. We simply have to succeed, because it's the only way that's healthy. All this other stuff, the restrictions on something that's not there, it'll only cause everyone trouble. We're aware that's not how we should work, and that's not how we're gonna work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20016	Thank you. National MP Sanja Cekovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20017	Thank you. I'm looking for support from the IRS. You know they're always the biggest part of the tax system. The frequent change of laws, their information options, personnel, people, often complain about a small number of people, their salaries are not significant, but you have to help them program them do it well. We have a situation where the forced payment in the tax administrations, for 15 days after the end of the month, the reminders of who paid, who did not pay, are contained in the statement of only one account. I think it could technically be equipped that tax administrations, when they turn to the taxpayer, have complete data on all accounts, because often times it happens that there's a overpayment somewhere, somewhere down to minus, to reduce their ability to pay them on liabilities that are minus, so they're not paid in time, because of interest, and on a certain account they have overpayments. I think you've figured out what I'm saying. It's one system thing, a taxpayer by home number and by PIB to process it in such a way that when a reminder is sent to him, he has a comprehensive overview of all his accounts that exist in the tax administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20018	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20019	Let me just say you're absolutely right about that, too. If you've seen, we've increased the tax administration budget, above all for these investments you're talking about, to get the proper software. Unfortunately, the situation has been so long ago, even today, that many things are being manually introduced. I can't as a finance minister or director of the tax administration that I know the effects of forced charge at the moment, but we have to wait manually for data to be entered, so we're getting data with great delay. All of this we want to change now and the key to modernising the tax administration is the introduction of new information technology.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20020	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Mirjana Dragas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20021	Thank you. Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Parliament, of course I'm not happy to see a budget like this. From the debate that has been going on and on today the second day, we see that many feel the same way about it. We can't talk about having a budget that's different or that's better in this time and today. Unfortunately, the consequences of the proper economic policy that has been led over the past 13 years have led to this, regardless of who led and the citizens are not so interested in what was, whether this or that was the minister at a certain time, but primarily interested in what we will do with this budget and how we will proceed. Today's budget rebalancing, I believe, is one extortionary measure, which is responsible, because this is the only way that it is seen is a sustainable solution. A partial and occasional review of the financial situation and the current economic problems can in general lead to the creation of a better climate in certain segments, the change in a particular business policy and thus, the adequate and responsible spending of money to the extent that it exists by focusing on developmental sides of those that are primary or which are at that time sustainable. Of course, the problem is with budget rebalances, among other things, that he sometimes gives linear solutions, which, of course, is not the best, because the burden of such a policy is then not distributed equally. The budget provides guidance, provides a framework and is responsible for this by the Ministry of Finance. We have to say that in certain periods earlier, even in some ways, it didn't predict all the problems and obviously didn't give an optimal solution half a year ago, it didn't know or shouldn't have. Our problem is that when we never talk about ourselves, we don't talk about what we're in, about our objective options and what we can objectively achieve. Very often and easily reach out for a much better picture and less realistic estimates. That's why we often get into a paradoxal problem so that tomorrow the situation will come to us much more than we predicted in time. That was to remind ourselves of some earlier situations, when the economic crisis was coming, so we felt that we could respond to it more adequately and better and that it was a challenge for us. We expected and predicted its enormous width and the great depth that caught up with us this way. If we had talked differently then, used all the resources that existed in the past years, used opportunities and possibly some assistance from abroad in an adequate, rational and economic way, investing in a particular economic branch, in a concrete solution, we might be in a better situation today. The result of such behaviour, which was directed at spending that had no courage and courage to look at the real situation, is this crisis today, these problems today, the situation we are in, and then, of course, this budget rebalance and the whole budget that we have. That's why this government, and I think today and in the last year it's been doing it, is responsible for facing the problems it's encountered, with the dubiosis that exists and is looking for and finding the best and most pathetic answers. Of course, before this government, and she is aware of it, there are those most painfully called real and deep, in general social and economic reforms, and we are entering them not only for the sake of others, but for reforming ourselves for the sake of creating a social framework in which Serbia will be able to develop better and more in the future. This kind of budget rebalance, as an extortionary measure, is one answer to the problems we have and to design the situation that should be found in the future. Of course, his problem is the imbalance of the income and expenditure sides. What's the cost side? Some will say these are the obligations of countries relating to salaries, pensions, social, health care, culture, science, education, etc. Can we give up any of these obligations? It is true that many of these act and function at a minimum today, unfortunately. It's an endlessly difficult thing for us to do. But a worker can't be a cost, can't be a cost, can't be a child, can't be a school, can't be health, can't be a science and culture. What's the state's identity for? He recognizes himself by how much he cares about his citizens. I therefore continue to advocate, in these conditions and in such a rebalancing, for the state of social justice, for the state of solidarity in which there is developed and available social and health care and public care. Of course, in which the school is also available for everyone. Finally, what about the problems we have in demographics and population renewal? I think that these are our big problems, but the biggest problem is the other side of the budget, which is called the revenue side, because the state of economy and the state of agriculture is something that exists as our great challenge and a great task, to set their biggest and most significant goals, by finding and using all internal resources. I also join all of those appeals that have been expressed so far, that taxes and contributions are properly paid, because riding and irresponsibility in these segments also generates in all other forms of behavior, because when in one social segment that is important sees that it is not punishable and that irresponsible behaviour is allowed, so it will happen in other social spheres. So these are also related, I say something shorter because of the very time we have, the situation and the privatisation problems that have been, the restructuring problems that we will face more seriously in the coming period, the sustainability of enterprises that must be effective in all their obligations. The inaccessible irresponsibility that exists in all social segments, and therefore every serious state, including ours, must pay attention to it. It is then a guideline and a model for the conduct of all, not for the spread of all forms of nondiscipline, nerada, irresponsibleness and undisciplinedness. It is said – there was a black hole in Serbia in 2000. Is it smaller in 2013? Because there have been increased and multiple problems - both in the economy, and in unemployment, and in opportunities, especially opportunities to hire young people. If we do not realize and provide conditions in which this employment will be possible, then I do not know in which segments of social action we will show our full social responsibility. What would I stand for? For comprehensive economic reforms, the establishment of strategic directions and objectives, but not solely based on the sale of remaining social assets. I think there are opportunities for companies operating in Serbia to be truly private enterprises, not to be our domestic citizens, to be not only foreign investors. In the end, Serbia, which once had so many developed production activities, has remained completely deprived of many of them who were here for fifty-seven years. (President: Time. I'm done. So, given all this, I would like to advocate full tax discipline, to speed up economic reform, to strengthen development, above all agriculture and food. I would like to initiate in future time the establishment of the Ministry of Family and Health, because if we put family and population first, everything else will have a total struggle, its full purpose and purpose. So, I believe that these are the measures of this budget in this time, but also the consideration of obligations for a future time, where we will show our full responsibility to the citizens and to life in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20022	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20023	I don't just want to answer some things I don't agree with the MPs of the opposition. There are some things that I support in your presentation, especially in terms of advocating agriculture and greater food production in Serbia because it is indeed potential, but there are some things that are simply standing and I want to say it in public. First, when we talk about that 2008 or 2009 when the global economic crisis started and when you say that there were such or such statements about the predictability of the effects and the length of the crisis, be realistic and say whether anyone in 2008 not in Serbia but in the world could assume how long the crisis will last and whether anyone knows today how long it will continue? Nobody. There's not a single economist in the world, not a single one, who predicted exactly what would happen then. When we talk about the predictability of the Serbian budget, it's the easiest thing for me to say, and I'll never do that, that I certainly don't sit behind a computer and I don't plan for personal tax revenues, but that they do professional services at the Ministry, which are doing this and when I'm the minister and who have done it before, and they'll do it in the future. But I'm not going to condemn these people for not giving a good income projection. I didn't do it myself. I never will. I'm responsible for that. Both the International Monetary Fund and the Fiscal Council, although more conservative, look at their papers from October, November, December last year, and they made the wrong assessment – both the IMF and the Fiscal Council. They then said that 20 billion revenues would be lower than planned. Maybe someone said it by 30, I've never heard a greater deviation, and now everyone's saying something completely different. If we missed an estimate of income, and we did, they missed it, too. If we change the budget, the whole of Europe will change it. Look at EU Finance Commissioner Olli Rehn, every three months changing the forecast of the situation in the European economy. Conditions are unpredictable. Whoever expects us to be able to assess the movements correctly doesn't tell the truth. It's just that I'm not able to do it either, because no one in the world is capable of doing it, an accurate assessment. What is important in these conditions, especially in small economies such as Serbia, to respond in time. That's what we did now. Indeed, 65% of our products are exported to the EU market. If Italy is currently in recession, it is a great success that we have managed to balance the retail trade with Italy. She buys far less gender than she bought before. They're having a downturn in economic activity. If France has a decline in economic activity, France, which for the first time in the history of France, it probably also knows the gentleman, reduces the cost side of its budget. First time in history. It's never done budget rebalances in France's history by cutting expenditures. That's what happens, you could read it in the press for the first time in the history of modern France. There is literally no country in the world that has the growth that it has planned, and even those countries that, under the conditions of this global economic crisis, have now grown less than before -- both China and China, especially Brazil and Turkey. I'm not saying it's not clear to anyone what happened to that park in Turkey and this insurrection in Brazil-- was it just as spontaneous as that "Arab Spring" thing, or was it something else? The fact is that these conditions, in which they are working, absolutely cannot be compared to the conditions before 2008. The world has changed completely. The world today has no answer to this crisis. It's the only living truth. In these conditions, we must be as proud, yet a small country, to see how we can do as much as possible. In that sense logic and common sense speak - yes, the agriculture we have is a chance because people have to eat food and that's where we have to invest, because we can do a lot more. We're competitive here, and we also have natural preconditions. That's where I agree. Just one remark when you say "sales of property." I would be most fortunate to have someone on the inside run the FAP alone in Priboj or the 14th of October in Kruševec or Žup in Kruševec. What hasn't happened in 12 years? Indeed, believe me, no one is against domestic own resources starting these companies. If the flag had been launched the way the Fiat did, they wouldn't have brought the Fiat, and they wouldn't have gone on a joint investment and invested. That's not possible, unfortunately. It is not possible because "October 14th" was designed for the big former Yugoslavia market, first and then for export. When we had large exports, there was no such competition in the construction machinery industry. This equipment is out of date. If we knew that it could be sold to a sufficient extent from competition, the state would find the money to invest in new equipment, but we're not sure that October 14th could break even on the market next to the Catterpilaire, besides other companies, because all of this has been globalized in the meantime, and we're not to blame for it, nor can we influence it. That's right. The same goes for FAP. We want and support FAP and we will. However, this is not a simple process at all. It's not simple. That's why I don't know what it means to sell out property. Real good luck getting someone to buy a FAP, if the state can't get him to do it for 12 years. I don't see how that's possible. There are companies that could be domestic, but if they had professional management. It's "Gelenika." Galenika could certainly do with how we all like to tell the household business to be profitable. She used to be and she could be now. It's medicine. Unfortunately, we all need medication because no one can but sometimes get sick and the pharmaceutical industry is therefore the most profitable. There we could be safe if we only had a successful management to put on and they could fix it. For some other things, it's very difficult to bear in mind that times have changed, that the situation on the global world market is even more difficult. It's very difficult. It is possible that, in all these cities, such enthusiasts who know what they want, who say, give me that, that I would do this and that it would happen, and not just grant subsidies to pay off the profits, to survive. So if the situation were easy, we wouldn't be here in the Assembly right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20024	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the members of the Diplomatic Academy who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the gallery of the great hall. Please welcome the guests. We're continuing our work. Mirjana Dragaš, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20025	I thank you anyway, and without wanting to go into any further deeper controversy, but I simply have to say that after 2000, all citizens know it well, and great democratic reforms have been promised, which promise such a change of social structure in which all citizens will become capitalists, and in which all citizens will become rich and have a better social, economic life. That didn't happen. It's just that the citizens recognized it and they know it very well. The company law has also changed a perception that we, as citizens and people, cannot be business owners. Serious, responsible management, meanwhile, has changed in various ways. So we can't talk about it today, of course, and we don't have the resources, today of that kind, and then we're certainly not in a situation to apply it the same way today. Of course, much has changed in relation to that time today, and this relationship with the crisis has to be looked at further. Responsible and analysed for it. That's where I agree with you, Mr. Minister, you have every kind of support we have. Anyway, we have what I specifically meant – one problem. We believe that as politicians, we must speak optimistically, looking at the future and asking it to be a responsible solution to all situations, but we must always go, personally, from that real picture and opportunity that we as a state and people have so that we can find all the resources that can help us and to which we can put a serious balance, because the balance in society is the same as the family budget and balance. If there's no money, then there's no money, and promises of great nothing lead to anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20026	People's MP, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20027	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, this debate has begun in verses. I believe that there is no one left to sing or verse, especially for me because it has turned into a discussion of former coalition partners – who has more failed projects and investments. Are we talking about the Serbian "stone hanche" or about dinosaurs or something else, about the "flag" or "Fiyat" or anything else, it doesn't lead anywhere. We also have an SPS that has been trying to wash its hands as if since 2008, it has not been an accomplice to public finances in Serbia. We are hearing about the socially responsible governance of the parliamentary group, and three of their companies for which they have taken responsibility over the past few years have made a billion and a half euros in debt now guaranteed by the Republic of Serbia's budget. Then we're talking about socially responsible management. Let people be aware of the situation we are in and that everyone is aware of the responsibility he has for what he says and what he does. "Serbia", "Gallenika" and "Dunav" have made a billion-and-a-half debt guaranteed by Serbia. Let's not talk about "The Ways of Serbia" about Minister Mrkonjic and everything else. It's going to be a topic, and then they're telling us from that parliamentary group that we need social responsibility to manage. You've had your chance. You've shown since 2008. You're in power now, so show me. Be ready to change and do something. If you are unable to do so, President Kostunica has returned the mandate to the people to choose someone else, hand it over to someone who is. By 2008, Serbia's public finances were fine. We left a surplus in the budget for Minister Cvetkovic and Finance Minister then. He had a surplus in his budget. He had 30 billion. Minister Dinkic inherited the dubiosis when he inherited it, inherited a historic deficit. We should have responsibility for what we did and for the public word we say, and I will not ask for the culprits for what is happening now because neither this government nor Minister Dinkic can be amnested by the situation we are in right now. But we just need to be aware that there's no chemistry, no alchemy, those grandmothers of the evil who can help us get out of this situation. We need to draw the line and talk about the budget debate and the financial laws that Serbia's problem is expenditure, too much expenditure. They're not small incomes, but they're irrational big expenses. We're down to industrial production. I'll read the official information. The National Bank of Serbia announced -- industrial production registered a 3.7% drop in May while it was below 0.5% compared to the same month of the previous year. He did jump GDP, but industrial production fell, and that's what worries me, and he should be worrying about all of us, and 75% are going on salaries and pensions and other expenditures, to party employment. How many employees of this government's election in the state administration and public enterprises? You mentioned a thousand employees at Galennica for the last few years. Can a company hold it? He can't, of course. It is those who do not need for the process of production because the Galenika rules profit from those thousands less employees. And we're talking about socially responsible management. Everyone here should be socially responsible as MPs and government should be socially responsible and finally take measures necessary to reduce expenditure. Incomes in what they are and in the coming period will not be much higher. They'll grow very slowly. Serbia's problem is expenditure. Even 75% of Serbia's budget goes to expenditures, salaries and pensions, social contributions and all other things. We cut 3.7% of the billion dinars in the agricultural budget, the agricultural budget. We have a statement by Tomislav Nikolic, who said a few days ago -- agriculture is Serbia's development chance. Yes, and he's absolutely right. He also said that when the budget is made, it must be in the highest place. That's what he said ten days ago and a message comes from the government that the agricultural budget is shrinking by 3.7 billion. He has to be on the level, not the level he's been on, but bigger. You yourself know that the application of the SAA, which has already begun, opens Serbia's market for European producers, for German, for Dutch, which are far more subsidized by the German, Dutch government and by the EU itself. Our dairy farmers will become absolutely uncompetitive and we will come to the situation in which Greece and Bulgaria are now, so that in Greece and Bulgaria, no milk milk milk milk is processed in Greece and Bulgaria. No, but which is milked in Germany and the Netherlands, because they have milk production that is enough to cover the needs of the EU and all of Europe. The milk is then transported as fresh milk to Greece and Bulgaria, where it is produced and processed there. They don't have their own milk production anymore. It's a situation we need to talk about. Money instead of going for party employment should go to the Fiat. Yeah, we're all saying that "Fiat" is too paid, but this "Fiat" is now starting to get something back. Make it "Fiat," make it that "Jura" that pays small wages, but at least let the production work. It's better to make production than to do those who sit and do nothing. It's better for those of you who don't do anything in the offices to go and work in that "Jurry" or in that "Fiat" and to create some new value. What I'm saying is, this budget rebalance is going to prove to be not good enough and it's not going to be the way you planned it to be. Pavle Petrovic of the Economic Council says the deficit will be 200 billion, which is more than you planned. In particular, he said that the latest changes to the Income Tax Act that reduces local self-government revenues, that at a consolidated level, when local self-government and republic are taken, the deficit will be much larger and completely unacceptable and can significantly reduce Serbia's chances of reaching the deficit below 5%. If we take that without a pension reform, so says Altiparmakov of the Fiscal Council, there is no possibility of a realistic reduction in expenditure and of entering public finance reform. We're looking to see what the plan for reform is in the pension system. We have Mr. Krkobic, who's been in the government for years and he's in the pension system, but we haven't heard a single idea of how to reform the pension system. Pensioners are there, have certain reasons and privileges why they are there, but let them come up with a concrete proposal on how to reform the pension system and how to get to an effective pension system where the most vulnerable, those who have pensions below 20,000, those who have below 40,000, keep their pensions in order to reform the entire system in a way that the most vulnerable categories of pensioners are preserved and that pension reforms are carried out by those over 80, 90,000 and redistribution within the existing pension system. These are the things I expected to talk about today. If we want to discuss public finances responsibly, not listen to investment, failed projects, it's devastating and tragic. Let's see what we can do and be extremely responsible, socially, socially responsible in the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20028	The word is made by MP Dejan Radenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20029	Thank you, Your Honor. I'm advertising Article 107(1). Like yesterday, when I was a colleague, I reminded him, and of course, these workers who are out of their factories, but today, others who are responsible for being together because after October 5, they deceived the people by telling them fairy tales about Europe, saying that prosperity will prevail, resulting in closed factories, robbed factories, money being taken out of the country, and today someone is giving us a lecture. It undermines the dignity of the Assembly, this legislative body. The people can't listen to that anymore. Don't let us remember who he was when he ruled and how much he ruled and what he promised people. We'd better not remind someone who was friends with whom he hugged, etc. Unfortunately, we're where we are, this is the cause of what's happening to us today and don't let us go back. Let's see what we can do. I don't want to offend the minister right now, but there's enough debate between the former ministers, the current finance ministers, what who did, what who didn't. Let's stop that and stop those TV duels and some personal stuff getting out. Let's put an end to it, because the people are sending messages and asking us to do something. I call upon you in that direction to direct the discussion today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20030	I don't think it's an injured member of 107. Rules of Procedure. If you feel otherwise, you can ask us to make a statement on the day of the vote. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20031	In order not to be a demagogue debate, when you mentioned the need for pension reform earlier, you mentioned the respected Mr Altiparmak of the Fiscal Council, then my question is whether the DSS supports his proposal, which is to equalise the years of retirement for women and men. Do you support that women retire at 65? If the DSS supports it, then publicly declare that attitude. The government has rejected such a proposal. We believe that at this point in Serbia, conditions are not such and that there is no need to increase the age limit for the retirement of women. What you said was possible to make, I don't know what kind of savings in the pension system by making a redistribution between those pensioners who have bigger pensions. Do you know how many there are in total? Let's take out the data, so you see what the number of people is and what that is, or what percent of the total pension expenditure. It's demagogy. It's like when you say -- let's make a much bigger savings by cutting some state spending, and in fact, salaries, pensions and social security make up 3/4 budgets, and then at the cost of the team we can save billions. We can't. We can save five or six billion, but we can't save 100 billion. Also, in the pension system, it's impossible to make any serious savings if we go through the demagogue that the one who created more, made more money, and now has a slightly higher pension than the average, to cut it down. There aren't many of them, unfortunately. I wish there were any. That would probably be nice for the people to hear. I don't know, someone who's retired 70,000 you cut, but what good would that do for the Pension Fund? Not at all. Let's not go into demagogue. If the DSS supports raising the retirement age of women, say it. Our government is against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20032	The word of the People's Messenger is Jovan Palalic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20033	I'm advertising Article 107. I ask you that when false things are brought out or the Rules of Procedure are misused to act. This is where my colleague put his point of view that we were talking fairy tales about Europe. The DSS never told stories about Europe, never praised the EU. Those who are now accusing us listen to them these days as the EU is the one who will bring prosperity, success, joy and happiness. I remind my colleagues that at a time when the DSS led the government of the Republic of Serbia they supported the government of the Republic of Serbia, all decisions by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly supported the SPS votes in the National Assembly. That was good, because it was the best government of the Republic of Serbia since the five-October changes. That's when the citizens lived best. At that time, you were minorityly in favour of the government of the Republic of Serbia. As soon as you entered the government of the Republic of Serbia, there was a crisis, there were problems, and we are now facing these consequences of your rule. The DSS never told a fairy tale about Europe. When we co-operated with the EU, we collaborated in the interests of the Republic of Serbia. When we broke up and thought we should stop, that's what we did. During the government of Vojislav Kostunica, which you supported, lived the best in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20034	I ask all Members of the People's Parliament not to use the Injury Institute to replicate. I ask you to respect all the Rules of Procedure and thus to take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. I won't allow you the right to a replica. The replica has Dejan Mihaylov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20035	Mr Dinkic, we believe that a reform of the pension system is needed, and that is all we agree with a member of the Fiscal Council. I mentioned this as one of the arguments in favour of these not being comprehensive reforms and we believe that reform of the pension system is something that is necessary. We have always rebelled as a party and we have always asked that there is no linear increase in pensions, because if you go to a linear increase of 5%, the one who receives 15,000 will get 5%, the one who receives 100,000, he will get 5,000. We believe that under the existing pension system, there must be some redistribution, if we talk about a difficult financial situation, that it must be equally distributed to everyone, because we especially have in mind that average earnings and that average pension, no matter how much PUPS and everyone else advocates that it must monitor market movements, prices and other things, it actually falls from month to month. You said there wouldn't be a freeze in wages and pensions. Yeah, they won't be there, and that's not controversial, but that's why you're going to let a little inflation, a little devaluation, and you're going to devalue those pensions through inflation and devaluation. You will maintain a real pension growth of 0.5% that will be in November of the month, but through devaluation and inflation they will actually fall by 3-4%. You don't want to freeze pensions and salaries and freeze their growth, but they're really going to fall from month to month, and that's the problem we're facing, and that's the problem we want to talk about here, to see how savings can be made in the budget, how budget expenditures will be reduced, and how can we help citizens survive times of crisis, because we all have to be in the function of these citizens. In what way will industrialization be helped, "Fiat"... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and all the other investments you mentioned and that are much better than investments in jobs by ministries, agencies and local self-government. "Fiat" returns much more than all these jobs and "Jura" and everyone else, Bol Beijing and all other investments and Greenfield and others that have been in Serbia for the past ten years. That's what we want to talk about here, how all together, extremely responsible, socially and socially responsible to approach this problem, to solve it, not to call the guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20036	Thank you, Mr. Michael, two minutes and 33 seconds. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20038	Dear gentlemen, dear ministers, I think it was politically responsible for this parliament to bring budget rebalancing, because it is obvious that in what was inherited in the previous period it is impossible to get out of one step. I stand for even one more comprehensive scenario of getting out of the crisis, because I don't think even this budget rebalance itself will be able to respond to the overall crisis that we are in today. It is expected that even in 2014 and 2015, the crisis in the part of public finances in Serbia is still growing. I absolutely agree with the need to save, save or reduce the volume of consumption. But I definitely have to say a few suggestions that will improve the scope of optimism that is currently ruling in this field. I don't think it's moderate, and it's not fair from part of the opposition to listen to the objections we've heard in these two days. Since 2000, there have definitely been several factors that have seriously compromised our country's financial system. First, bad regulations. Secondly, one disastrous and robbing privatisation that has affected an increase in the volume of unemployment, a reduction in revenues in Serbia and a failure to find a quality solution as far as possible. What are we supposed to do next? First of all, one zero tax-free tolerance. Today you have several surprising phenomena in Serbia. First, some public figures in the tabloid media are advertised and say they won't pay taxes. Tax is not the measure you're going to say you won't pay, it has to be paid. It implies that all Serbian citizens pay taxes, including some public figures, which I don't think has happened in this case. Therefore, I think that through the end of this process of reporting tax obligations, it is necessary to enter into a cross-determination with all those persons, especially those who have failed to submit tax returns. Zero tolerance involves changing the atmosphere in the work of the Tax Administration. I think it's one of the few institutions in this country that in the last 20 years has not been subject to affairs, which is not subject to various structures, from whose structure you didn't have people who had wealth or were known in public as individuals who acquired capital by misusing the state. In tax administrations and today there are great people, good civil servants, but without courage and determination to take what they can do, which is to cut the tax. This time in which the state is now, in the tax administration, has created only one measure, and that is to do with tax records. The point is to determine. That's why I think we should encourage tax authorities to establish tax obligations. Rest assured, when they determine the tax obligations, if it's good government support, everyone's gonna have to pay for it. There is a serious reserve of financial revenues because if the fact is that by the end of this year we have to provide 2.7 billion euros and in the following year nearly five billion euros of the resources we are missing, there is a huge reservoir in several factors. First, in the gray zone, that black hole of the economy, which I think is huge. What are the engines of that gray zone? These are numerous evasions that have occurred in the meantime, for several reasons, and I think they are completely out of control – gambling, car trade and some other goods, trade in agricultural products, supply of large cities, etc., etc. There's a series of things we can talk about that affecting the funds being poured into these black funds, and then they're looking for space in the part where they can be legalized. In times like today, it's hard for the state to decide on new taxes. And when times like this are like this, they mostly reach for the next measure, and that's not any novelty of Serbian society, it's applied both in Europe and Russia, and in Italy -- one-time taxes. They're roughly applied to the same social structure, they're directed towards the rich. You know, when a time like this comes, it's hard for a people, and it's said to them: "Peace by voice and to the master by money." I think there's this lack of courage with us to do that. We have a number of elements in which we can look for one-off taxes of such a solution, primarily poor privatisations, are covered by considerable pressure on the banking sector, a lot of funding has been recovered from this Serbia and it needs to be put back. The only measure to repay these funds is taxes. It also needs to help the banking sector recover, so that it can finance what is key, which is production. In my opinion, these are some indicators that can help at this point to get new revenue. The government has a measure of responsibility and savings imposed on it and a socio-responsible policy show enough that there is a responsibility in this part of the state to take care of every dinar. But what is impossible at this point is the damage that has been going on for many years and that has produced this condition. So, an attempt to create a false hope that during a short period of time, such as this period of government exercise in these less than a year, six months since the adoption of the budget, it is simply a difficult time to raise significant funds for this long time and come out of the indifference in which the state fell in the previous period. The state needs a certain stress scenario and we need to get out of this concept of state, which is difficult, complex and complicated and which, in my opinion, is on the extremity. I'm talking about the state in financial terms. Since 2000, a concept of state financing has been created. Somewhere between 40% and 45% of the countries were funded from real income, 30% were donations and the rest were privatisations. You don't have that part of your income called privatisation income anymore today. Those who talk about some of these 12-years, 13-year-olds are just talking about the years when there was the most revenue from privatisation and I think there were the most abuses in that period as far as these privatisations are concerned. Anyway, it turned out to be a one-time measure, instantaneous. What are the answers to that moment? We now have a proposal from the government to move towards the resolution of these 180 enterprises in restructuring. So, it has to come out of this liberal concept and go back to a state-of-the-art concept of state-of-the-art again of all these companies. Bank debts, foreign creditors, government creditors, are huge. The only way is for that property to be re-emerged and re-entered by a new partner, who will be ready to do so. Because at this point we don't have many partners on the side, but for years we've been pushing for one measure called decentralisation. Somehow, we left local communities and local administrations to fight more about who will be in power in the bar or whether one or another group will prevail and be dominant in the exercise of power, but we did not leave something called fiscal discipline. This local indiscipline or lack of local authority to be a partner of the state in a certain way or to be controlled, to raise the level of responsibility of local self-government, to control these poor privatisations, has led to the fact that many companies have been closed down, that this has been extinguished, and former others, third or fourth owners or already destroyed objects show that more damage than they have been to NATO bombings. When you put all this together, the other and the third, you come up with something that you can't go on. I absolutely agree with this principle that goes into budget rebalancing, but I wish there was a little more courage and ambition to get into that gray zone and get it cleaned up or ready for cleaning up next year. I don't think it can be cleaned up quickly, but that part of courage would be valuable to us right now, because I think it would help by the end of the year to a certain extent to find these two and a half billion euros, and in a certain way to prepare the state for fiscal discipline in the next year when the five billion is running out. I understand the need for us to have a critical tone at this point and to look this way at this proposal of rebalancing, but I think a serious government like this had the need to bring this to this House. I think we should all support this budget rebalancing together, while our government has this one model of courage in the coming period that will lead it to a scenario to secure more income, eliminate non-discipline, reduce the gray zone and discipline privatisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20039	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Mojovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20040	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, my general objection to the document we are talking about today is that this rebalancing has no arguments, reasons for the items that are shrinking, and even more about the arguments for the items that are increasing. In that sense, I will talk about the budget rebalancing for culture, since, as the minister said, we all had a chance to see, this budget increased by 319 million dinars, but there is no reason why. I should probably be happy right now, but the right to tell you, I don't know if I should laugh or cry or maybe just cross over, even if God doesn't help us. Why? Because I think they finally came out of these budget and current money reserves for the Milan edic, I would say for one, a megalomanical, rich, and perhaps a boastful celebration that brought nothing special to Serbian culture, and nothing less is significant in international exchanges. What did we learn from that celebration? Instead of teaching these young people lessons in schools, making shows, documentary series and citizens of Serbia, we learned that the Milani edict act on tolerance, understanding and recognition of diversity, we also used this celebration to dig up new-old trenches and to divide artists into similar and unsuitable, patriots and traitors. Looking at what we had the opportunity to hear from officials and those who were in charge of this celebration and see what programs were prepared, maybe the citizens of Serbia understood, and we saw in some poll that barely 3% knew what the Milan edic was after all these great events. The only thing I can understand is that this Emperor Constantine was some great Serb, that he had moved to Christianity and most likely immediately and directly to Orthodoxism, most likely to be sacrosanic, and perhaps composed Aida, as it was performed in honor of the Milan Edict. The Ninth Symphony of Beethoven was performed, but we learned it already. That composer played Mr. Dragan Markovic Palma, and we can't confuse him with Constantine, because Palma is certainly not 1700 years old. I can only express my hope that out of these 140 million more for NGOs, associations, protection of cultural heritage, that at least part of it is intended for a low Median and that at least part of this 119 million more is intended for the local self-government, I believe, Nisa for the program under the "Milan Edict". There are more things to sing and cry about in this budget rebalance. I see that there, in the area where the institutions of culture, the position of 424 - Programs has been increased by 170 million. I hope, I am convinced, that this is intended for the Serbian Film Centre and that finally Serbia's Film Centre will get some money for producing Serbian films. But what's not good and I'm sad about, is that these money has been removed from position 511 – investments in culture and there's nothing, gentlemen, from reconstruction, from the restoration of the National Museum, probably from the Museum of Contemporary Art. I'm telling you that these 225 left in the investment position will not be spent until the end of the year. Now, of course, listening to what the Deputy Prime Minister is saying, what the Minister of Culture is saying, who's to blame for the National Museum, it's the DS. It won't be! It's your fault, gentlemen of the ruling regime, I mean, your people, your experts, your experts. We are only responsible because Zoran Djindjic launched an initiative to restore Serbia's most important culture facility -- the National Museum. Preparations began in 2003, ended in 2004, and projects, obtained permits, signed contract with the Austrian firm Kunst trance for deposits were made in the next two years. Who was the most responsible in the Ministry of Culture, whose minister was then Dragan Koadidinovic, his assistant for the protection of cultural heritage and the most responsible person for the National Museum? Miladin Lukic. Who today is the assistant minister of culture Bratislava Petkovic and the most responsible for protecting cultural heritage and the National Museum? As the minister himself informed us, Miladin Lukic. It's not the same name, it's the same man. Then Mr. Nebojsa Bradic, as minister in our government, said that this gentleman had unauthorizedly signed all this, these documents, that these projects were not valid, they were throwing it all out the window. Together, tens of millions of invested dinars went out of the window into these projects. Then new projects were created and used, i.e. the spending of new millions. Then the new government said -- we're going to do it all over again, we're going to resuscitate, we're going to patch it up and turn it around. She wasn't able to do it either. It's not that money was removed from here because there is no will and there is no awareness that the National Museum should be restored. There is no ability, no knowledge, no competence. July is the month, gentlemen, summer breaks, this money would remain dead capital in 411, because there is no idea, there are no projects, no procedures, we don't know what will happen to the National Museum. It's not DS's fault. She was mostly responsible for some, of course, smaller museums in Belgrade. We renovated the Pedagogical Museum, the Nikola Tesla Museum and the Car Museum. On that case, I want to tell you a few things that we're different in. You all know that the owner of this collection, Mr. Bratislava Petkovic, is the co-founder of the city of Belgrade. The democratic government and DS have reconstructed, adapted space for the Car Museum. The democratic government has been paying the museum's costs and salary to Director Bratislava Petkovic all these years. She did not give up on it even when the same director, along with Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, protested in front of the City Assembly against Nenad Bogdanovic first, and then Dragan Gilas. He won't give up in the future. We have an excellent new ambitious young director, Bogdan Petkovic. The democratic government will seek to achieve his ambitions. That, gentlemen, is the difference between you and us in the ruling coalition. Because we are not looking at the principle of taking care of the narrow and closer relatives and party listeners, but we are looking at what is good for culture, for Belgrade, for Serbia. The car museum is important for the culture of Belgrade and Serbia and we will try in every way to continue to help it. To finish, it's not always just money. This is what we see best in the case of money for investment in culture. It's important to know, it's important to be professional and it's important to be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20041	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20042	Thank you, Madam Chairman, honourable Members of the People, Mr. Minister, for breaking my heart all morning while I listened to you and the gentleman on your left. Be careful, Boza Djelic drives the south, Mladjan Dinkic drives the "fica", and Cane of Partibreikers would say anything - crazy and fast. Mr. Dinkic, I think the government's decision to rebalance the budget in the National Assembly is completely unreal, regardless of what the budget is in huge problems before the government's reconstruction. On the same day that we are discussing budget rebalancing, Ivica, the prime minister, announced that there will be a serious reconstruction of the government that involves the change of some ministers, possibly the structure of some ministries, so that he will have to discuss these topics again anyway. You announced this rebalancing yesterday as the latest comprehensive package of measures to ensure the stabilisation of the state budget. The question arises, so whom did he destabilise? We've been listening here today to a derby between you and a DS representative who has more ruined the country in the past four years. You said this rebalancing was created as a fruit of agreement in the government of the Republic of Serbia, talks with businessmen, talks with Kyrgyz trade unions from Marks and Engels to represent a firm decision without compromise. So without compromise you suggested this rebalancing that you would save the citizens of Serbia 36 billion dinars. It is not known what is obtained by this rebalance and the budget of 36 billion when the total budget gap will be at the end of the year at your estimates of around 180 billion, and according to the expert public, even up to 200 billion dinars. How many mistakes have you made, how much income have you overestimated, how much have you missed? I think that mistake is really big because the hole is equal to the budget transfer for the pension fund. Now, did you deliberately inflate these figures because you expect this might be an election year, it will eventually show up. We're only interested in who's to blame for this and this kind of budget debacle and where these funds are going to be replaced. From the savings on salaries and pensions, I'm sure they won't. You said there was no freezing of wages and pensions and that they would grow by 0.5% by the end of this year and twice so much in 2014. If we look at the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, which is about 42,000 dinars, it will increase between 110 and 120 dinars for each pensioner, i.e. for the public administration employee. It may not be freezing, but I think by the end of 2014, it will feel fat on the home budgets of people employed both in the state administration and in pensioners, so there may be no freezing for them, but I'm afraid there is an ice age for them. When we predict the situation that real growth in the economy will be lagging behind, and when we realistically look at inflation, I'm sure every employee and every pensioner, at least for that level of inflation, will be able to buy 10% less goods and services in this year compared to the previous one. Yesterday you announced some unpopular moves that directly stick their fingers in your eye and your electoral body, which is primarily the layoff of workers in the public sector, in public administration, by then of course opening up the issue of severance payments. This rebalancing provides for a certain amount in the so-called to the transition fund and to restructure and probably to pay off this purpose, but I'm not sure this government is going to decide to sell one of the national resources, let's say, Telekom that one part and this cost could finance. You plan to reduce expenditure by firing extra employees, but in this way budget revenues are certainly reduced. The budget will be reduced on the basis of taxes and contributions, and if budget spending is reduced then budget revenues will, of course, be reduced. If the number of employees falls, it will certainly affect the unsustainable high deficit. You said – Serbia's economic growth is based on exports, and here you specially apostrophe of the automotive industry. Of course, we can agree on that, but the fact is that Serbia is an import-oriented country and that any reduction in the value of dinars will have a significant impact on the increase in inflation, and this further leads to a drop in the purchasing power of each individual but what is the most terrible leads to the escape of the economy in the gray zone. All of this will have a significant impact on the revenue side of the budget and on the difficulty of serviceing external debt because of course we were in debt both in euros and in dollars. I know you don't think that the economy is going to rise on its own, but what you've done is to reduce the interest rate for the development of the economy, or something in that field has been done, but those measures have not given certain effects and a positive result. Just now the high-interest banking system for the economy has killed our economy. The catastrophic economic situation and the even worse economic situation have certainly affected unemployment, and I really don't want to bid the data that has been crossed here, whether it's 22 or 24%, it's certainly unacceptablely high and must be reduced urgently. You say inflation slowed down its growth in May and is about 2%, but when we make a cut, from 2000 to 2000, inflation in Serbia has increased by more than 200%. The rate of dinars since 2002 has increased by almost 100% to date. So, from 60 dinars from 2002 to today when it's on 114 or 115 dinars. The deficit in the first six months of this year is 98.7 billion, non-tax revenues are lower by 20%. You said the revenues were up by 7%. Well, that's normal, that's what we expected when you increased both VAT and excise duties. What's terrible is that the profit tax has dropped, or failed 15%. You said the bill was 88%, but I'm curious about what the budget is this year. This kind of budget deficit is unsustainable not only because of its height but also because of its structure. Serbia is forced to borrow money to repay some old loans that have been taken under unfavourable conditions, and this leads us to sink into increasing debt and into growing debt. That way, I think that the bankruptcy of the state is imminent if this continues to function as the country's economic system. You said that this country's chance is beyond agriculture and construction, but I really don't understand when we have a disastrous Law on Planning and Construction. I don't know if you know that legalisation was stopped in Serbia on June 6th, but you certainly know that all major construction projects have been allocated to foreign companies and that domestic companies have little opportunity to participate in these works. All of this, unfortunately, will not compensate for the lack of foreign investment, and will certainly affect the reduction of foreign reserves that must be reduced to cover all of this. Mr. Dinkic, we think it's high time to say that car is naked. It's not a question of courage anymore. It's a question of morality. We are sure that in three months we will discuss again the new budget rebalancing of the Republic of Serbia unless, of course, we meet in an election campaign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20043	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20044	All the time I'm saying it's not easy to plan a budget because of the uncertainty that's going on, but I also say all the time that the government knows what it's doing and that when it comes to it, it's a challenge that answers. Of course, there are segments where it has to be much better, and that's why it's going to be a government reconstruction. As far as the budget is concerned, that assessment is correct for the first five months. That's the data they gave you. It began to change the moment when we came here at the end of May to the Assembly, changed a few laws and announced also after two, three weeks of debate within the ruling coalition that we would make a comprehensive package of measures. That package of measures resulted in the first result I say is excellent, but it is not easy to keep in the coming months of June. Because in June of the month, we got the final data, the other day we were talking, yesterday about the preliminary one. Serbia had 71 billion dinar revenues in the republic's budget and 75.3, so the deficit amounted to 4.3 billion dinars. It's the lowest budget deficit since the beginning of the year. In May, he was 17.7 billion in comparisons, in April 26 billion, 14.5 in March, in February 28, seven only in the initial month of January. So 4.3 in June, which is mid-year, so it's not some month where holidays were, on the contrary, saying it's possible through a better charge, because record revenues have been made, on the one hand, and 71 billion is the biggest income that has been achieved since the beginning of the year in one month and with savings on the side of public expenditures, it's possible to keep the deficit under control. We'll keep this up. Of course it won't be easy, but I see here significant shifts in tax collection and I say, measures on the side of savings give, too, effects. It would be good if we could keep this deficit from June, which is only 4.3, at that rate by the end of the year. That, of course, isn't real, but we'll do everything we can to get this projection done. What's also important, we don't think about whether some measures are popular or unpopular. If they cost Serbian citizens, then they must be implemented regardless of being unpopular for politicians. It's the end of corporate restructuring. Or certainly, I'm being distracted by people, and it's not popular for you to charge all taxes to those who don't pay. However, it is important that we have loyal competition and that we should not make exceptions. I just want to say a few words about culture. I, of course, am not a culture minister, and I respect everyone who deals with culture very much. I think that culture, as well as other social activities, is extremely important for vitality, for the sanctification of society, and that's why as finance minister, I've been trying to make this rebalancing work, not only to leave the same funds for the culture budget, but to increase them as much as possible in these humble and not very large opportunities. It is true that cultural separations will be somewhat greater than planned by the original budget. It's true that it's not enough. As for the structure of the spending of these funds, it is indeed a resolute minister who determines how any budget will be spent, not only in culture, but in every special ministry. What I think is important to say here, given that my MP has already come forward and that she has given a good amendment that we in the government have been thinking about and who we will accept, is that the institutions of culture, as far as their own incomes are concerned, are classified in the same category as higher education. So that their own incomes remain permanent to the institutions of culture so that they can use what they collect for their own programmes and have this one relief from other sectors in difficult times. We'll also do everything we can to give priority to investments in culture from the current budget reserve, when they address us with various demands. We've heard from some MPs here that the Vranj theater is burned and I think it should be restored. There are other, of course, places in Serbia to pay attention to, of course, with this little liquid reserve that we're going to have. It is better to help those who, perhaps not so much of an asset compared to the total budget, can make more assistance and so will we. All those who speak in favor of culture are greatly appreciated and supported, and I am also trying as Minister of Finance to try to help in these very conditions of action. I was told, by the way, that the fact is that it's not a project that is being implemented to rebuild the National Museum as planned and not just now, but for a long time. The fact is, they've always been provided with funds, but when it comes to the project, I'm really not an engineer, and I don't know what it is, that's going sloppyly, to say the least. The fact is that it is the priority of this institution of national importance to restore it. The worst is when investment funds are provided in any area, especially in culture, when they are not exploited. I remember a time when as finance minister in that government of Kostunica, I thought I had 20m euros for the reconstruction of the theatre then in Belgrade, for "Stara Theatre" and "Dusko Radovic". It was never realized, because they killed, I don't know, within the city cultures of the then, whether to buy one chair, other chairs, etc., and eventually the funds were ruined. Or not to mention Belgrade. There have been cases in other cities. I know it's been a long problem with Leskovec, so in the end, I think it's realised, but not as it could and as much as the funds were predetermined. It's the same with Subotic, I remember that money has been found all the time, but it's not always spent effectively, which doesn't mean that we don't need to go further. It is important that in the conditions of modest opportunities, we can single out for culture, and the minister told me that one part of those funds that remained in the budget, which were created by the redistribution from those that would not be spent on the National Museum, because they simply did not have those projects ready to end, that it would be dedicated to Serbia's Film Centre, for the Serbian film, that it would be intended for other events, including the support of the Exit, who had already questioned it, and that, as every year, my portfolio had paid 9 million dinars from the Tourism Sector, and I hope that the Ministry of Culture now has enough resources to add, if necessary, not only for the Egzit, but also for every important event, including Guch, all manifestations across Serbia, which are important for local cultural development, for the Suotic event, in the Days of Film etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20045	First Miroslav Petkovic, replica, then Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20046	Very briefly, Mr. Minister, we will agree in two things, that the government's economic performance, or lower budget deficit in one month, must not depend on whether Easter falls in April or May and we agree that Serbia has a poor tax system, and that by strengthening the work of inspection services, and greater financial discipline, some things can be moved to the better. Also, I support your, as you said, unpopular measures, related to the dismissal of a certain number, first of all, party personnel from the state administration, you must, if they are excess, if they are not doing this job properly, if in municipalities and local self-government we cannot find any empty chairs, it is certain that such a situation is also so."the rubber building," and those people, look for happiness, in the private sector. I ask you once again, according to the Labour Act, and according to other regulations, you must pay them certain severances. From what means will it be paid off, if the Transition Fund is planned, above all for restructuring? So, it follows us, and it doesn't need to hide, inevitably selling, whether Telecom, if any other big system, so that it could just work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20047	Thank you. Replica, Gorica Mojovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20048	Mr. Dinkic, what you just said, that you would adopt the amendment that I gave to the Law on the Budgetary System will not oblige the institutions of culture, that their own income be paid into the budget, is good news for the culture of Serbia, because this Demakl sword that hung over all the institutions, which would demotivize them, that in such modest conditions and with such modest budgets, they have also the obligation to pay their own income to the budget, would make their work far more difficult. That's good news. I have to correct you, as to who killed himself and why not "Star theater" started the reconstruction, because first of all, we don't know where you got those numbers, since there was no precalculation at the time. That's one thing. As for "Dusko Radovic" theatre, the theatre is returning to its home home these days. The "Duško Radovic" theatre was reconstructed and the "Stara Theatre" was the problem of property legal relations, which we know very well and that this is the most common stumbling block. The reconstruction was not a problem, not the knowledge, not the preparedness, not the will, but the problem of precisely undefined property legal relations around a salary next to the theatre. So much, the truth works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20049	The word is made by MP Milan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20050	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected MPs and citizens of Serbia, the budget rebalance was also a being, but the fact that one is always in this debate, both yesterday and today, mentions - why and why. The basis for the budget rebalancing, which is here before us, is fundamentally and deeply, in my opinion, in some period behind this government and this government. Many MPs have been in trouble here today. They talked about the wrong missed privatisations that happened during a previous period and we keep coming to the same beginning. It's obviously not the way it's planned. The main and essential problem is, in my opinion, precisely in the privatisations that we talked about, which occurred in some previous period. All these privatisations are today exactly the problems that are tied up and that happen with income and budget filling. We're talking about the numbers and numbers of fired workers. The dismissal of workers was much higher and occurred in the past 13 years, or 12 years, before this government came. The main charge of budgets and revenues was in some factories and firms that were closed. I agree that there were some companies, public enterprises, factories, etc., which could not survive and which should have been privatised. I'm talking specifically about the environment I come from. The plant of cellulose and Matros paper, which once had 5,000 workers, couldn't work, but with 1,500 workers it could work. I will remind only that Serbia daily has 24 roto-papers imports from Austria, not mentioning from the environment of Bulgaria, Romania and BiH the part we import. As for the situation in agriculture and agrocombinates, these days it has been said that we simply give foreign exchanges and pay for the import of beans. So the first thing that was done and what was privatized was these agrocombinates that sort of brought funds and filled the budget, not mentioning the sugar factories that were in these areas. I'm only talking about the territory of Srem. There were no municipalities that had no production and were leanings, both agricultural production of sugar beets and other cereals, not to mention vegetables. It's all some segments that have brought and filled the budget. By changing power, I'm going back to about 2000 and later, there were districts. We have district chiefs, we have inspections that have been formed as republican inspections. The centralisation of these inspections that were once in the administrative and legal district, for which the head of the district was in charge in some way, as well as how they work, are now incorporated and are in the function of certain ministries. While a particular ministry remembers what it does to it in a particular district, as well as how it works, there is a particular problem with the collection of certain taxes, both taxes and a certain percentage of VAT. Someone mentioned yesterday that VAT collection is only 42%. We're wondering how and how to get to that 58%? To touch the gray economy or, better say, the black economy, the excise charges on cigarettes, drinks and everything else. All that was regulated in some way and given to conduct the inspection services of local administrations, the tax administrations worked much better in some period than they did after 2000. I think the main and key problems would be to get the districts back in charge of certain inspection services. The previous speaker noted that the work of certain inspection services formed was simply not adequate and not satisfactory. As for payments and incomes, taxes and contributions to personal incomes, I would like to make a proposal and that should be considered. There used to be a payment service, where tax payments and contributions to personal income and everything else that goes from gross personal income could be controlled. Today it's separated. It's a lot more comfortable. You can pay in banks, post office, but it's very hard to control and it's very hard to control. I think a good part of small, small businesses and private businesses avoids paying certain taxes and contributions. If we enter these companies, it is mostly 99% of the cases where the minimum is the minimum personal income. There's been a lot of talk here today about investing in education, science and all that. The fundamental issue that is being raised, and coming from the opposition's ranks, was their main focus of the change was to invest in science, education and in young people. I don't think it's ever been a greater outflow of young people and human beings than it was in this previous period since 2000. The reduction in expenditure on this side of 37 billion is a message to all of us that in some period behind us, where it was formed, it started with the military, the police, the education, the state authorities, it requires one basic analysis and comparison with some data in some period when it was even less by 40%. We've been essentially discussing health laws these days, where we've simply looked at and realized that there's a shortage of healthcare workers, and just in some upgrade where we don't need to hire and hire and generate expenditure. I think a lot of gaps have been made in this previous period, especially as far as public enterprises are concerned. I think in the next period, we should just look for savings in those segments. So, literally, set up public companies that are profitable and have the power to exist and continue their work, and that those public enterprises that have no certainty and we know that they do business with certain losses all the time and that the state is the segment that constantly touches, where they are comfortable living and sharing extremely high appointments and personal incomes, start from the airport, etc. There's a lot of big companies like that. I mean, the railroads, the EPS, etc. They're a lot of giants who are big losers to me. The large funds are drained directly from the budget and are large consumers. I think that would be one right moment and a moment to face these problems and solve these problems. As far as local self-government is concerned, the previous law in local administrations left 9% of the income, which was the development budget for local administrations. I use the opportunity to find a way with the Ministry of Finance and Economy to help local administrations and find ways, because many local administrations have entered certain projects and perform certain actions and finance certain projects and investments. That 9% was what was needed to develop certain local environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20051	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20052	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this morning I did not advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure for being late in work, because, as you know, a protest by the scientific workers of the Republic of Serbia was held for lack of money in the budget, so I expected colleagues from the largest government parties to go to support fellow scientists. You've also declared yourself scientists with this budget, except this is about science fiction, not science, because this is the kind of budget you're really giving us in the domain of science fiction. This morning when I was at the market in Krusevec, a farmer asked me to buy fruit – excuse me, would you explain to me in a Serbian way what a rebalancing is? Don't explain it to me like he's protecting the rights of the peasants with gum in his mouth, so neither do I understand him nor he understands himself. It's like this Serbian to explain to me what a budget rebalance is. You see, hosts, budget rebalancing is your next thing -- we have a government who wants to spend what she didn't earn, that she can't work, that she doesn't know, and then she has to put her hand in the people's pocket to save the government's register, and that's my hosts, the shortest definition of this kind of budget rebalancing. Of course, we pointed out when you were bringing this budget, that this budget wasn't good and that you'd have to do the rebalancing. Now we say you'll be doing rebalance rebalancing. But since 1858, since the introduction of a serious parliamentary democracy in Serbia, this is the first time a rebalancing is done before the government's reconstruction. Who guarantees that Zarko Obradovic will remain in this government? I guess you're fighting corruption, I guess you're going to take him out eventually, because he can't resign. Then why does he make some suggestions for education, why other people for science and culture to make suggestions when they're probably not sitting in that new government? Is this rebalancing someone's political will or is this actually the rebalancing of the government that doesn't even know it's down? I thought this was the budget of the future, not the budget of the past. Unfortunately, my colleagues only talk about the past they seem to want us back. You're talking about privatisation, and it's a bad budget because of poor privatisation and poor government enforcement. Let's explain it to the workers of October 14th and the First Five-year-olds. Those factories aren't privatized, and you know when they failed? I'm a Krushevian and you can't tell me fairy tales. They failed due to their policy in '97, '98. and '99. The year, when you didn't invest a penny in new technology, in knowledge, you loaded the sanctions with Serbia, and then you called on NATO bombers to bomb us with your policy. Then you're telling us something about privatizing failed Serbian factories. You've left the earth torn apart, both economically and materially and in every other way, most of the past 100 years. What you did to Serbia, even the greatest enemies couldn't do to us. We didn't need any other enemies near you. Now it is you who will recover Serbia through this budget rebalance. What you throw – the topic, perhaps, is that you eat caviar and drink gin, and there is steam, there is as soon as possible, but only for the directors of public enterprises. Not to say what Mr. Djuric of the LDP said, not to talk about portions of truffles in France. It's not a subject. They're hungry Serbian citizens, they have water on their mouths as I speak. Thanks to the empty refrigerators, he won't even feel it this summer. The air conditioning will work when they open empty refrigerators just like that. But that's not the point, you're right. The topic is budget and how to get this country out of the bull where you brought us. He said Minister Dinkic would not negotiate with the IMF. Make a deal with the first Deputy Prime Minister, Alexander Vukic before he goes out to a press conference, whatever you want, whatever you don't want. Half an hour ago he said we'd do anything to start negotiations with the IMF. Who stays in the government, who doesn't stay in the government? Make a deal so we know what politics is. Is there a negotiation or not? Once again, make a deal with you G17+ whether you were in the government or not. Whenever something was good, you were in the government, when it wasn't right you weren't. It's like "Balkan Express." Are you musicians? We are not. You didn't? Well, no, we are, just the aunt's medicine to take. Let's get some waking medicine to wake up and see and finally define whether you've been to the government or not. If you are not to say that Jura and other projects are your projects, if you were to say so, we are responsible for what is good, but we are also responsible for what is wrong. For the end, I still have a few things to ask you, because I really feel like you're not really in power. It's like you're an opposition, but you're only an opposition when it suits you. So does the SNS. The opposition is only when something doesn't suit them. When something's good, they're power. When privileges are to be taken, but the government does not involve privileges, but responsibility for not tearing up a 600-year-old oak. Because the Turks went out to protest when they wanted to cut some trees in that Taksim Square, much less old age. And let me tell you, against those Turks, we raised the uprising under that oak 200 years ago. Don't cut it, don't move it. Plan, do it right. Tomislav Nikolic said the other day – I will strengthen economic ties with the world. At least one of the boards of the Styrofoam was driven somewhere into the world, even if he did, to contribute. Come on, tell me, what economic business did Tomislav Nikolic do? He didn't get out of the plane, as if his wings had grown, and he laughed at Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. And that's what the double-wing has become. Even military uniform, then run there in Resava, then run to Zagreb. I don't know when he got to change. In the end, I have to ask one more thing? You said that the affair of aflatoxin destroyed Serbian agriculture and that we invented it. If the aflatoxin affair is invented, why not return the aflatoxin limit to 0.05 micrograms per kilogram of milk? Say it - it's made up and here we go. What were you changing those boundaries for? (President: Mr. Milivojevic, it is my duty to remind you that you are talking about the subject of the agenda. Who falls into the stream to be angry. Don't make her angry with the water. So, lastly, I'm just asking you, because we're going to have a rebalance, budget rebalance, and are the people who are now running the government of the Republic of Serbia and these ministers sitting in that government going to be ministers after the government's reconstruction? If he won't, why didn't you do the reconstruction first and then the rebalancing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20053	National MP Marko Atlagic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20054	Dear Chairman, I'm advertising Article 107. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I think the previous speaker deeply offended this home when he said that the people of Serbia, that we, quote, had called on NATO bombers. You should have warned him. To say as a man of the profession one sentence, to explain this, that none of the Western modern historians claim that we did it, but the United States and allies and NATO pact along with our domestic NATO dusters. The second offense, when he mentioned Tomislav Nikolic, Tomislav Nikolic is not for him, for me, for us Tomislav Nikolic, but for the president of the state, as was Boris Tadic, all of us, regardless of what he thinks of me and what he thinks of Mr Milivojevic. One more sentence. You were obliged to warn him because he was providing false information. Let me just say that in one institute, in this sentence, where Mr. Djelic was Minister of Science, he's been giving us sermons all morning, stealing a pensioner of 673,000, and Mr. Djelic knows what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20055	Please, Mr. Atlagic, don't spread the subject from the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20056	Thank you. This is for the sake of truth and justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20057	Mr. Milivojevic has a special style of exposure. I respect his style. Every time I feel like I should warn him, I warn him. Sometimes, however, it is misunderstood. Here you go, Mr. Ilich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20058	Yes, I was going to say that Mr Milivojevic's really funny statement and that without you, parliament would be boring. It's interesting to me, I like to listen to you. To answer your question from "Balkan Express" – yes, we were in government with you and there is no dilemma. What's the problem is that you've been hiding behind us, or you've forced us to show you've had bad results because of us. You didn't have the courage to take responsibility. Do you know when you kicked Mladjan Dinkic out of the government? The day your former president was supposed to be photographed in front of the results we achieved, in front of the Fiat, so Dinkic bothered him. That was the moment you decided to kick us out of the government. That's what this is about, the truth is. Yes, we were with you in the government. You're responsible for this government because you had the most trust in that moment and what I object to you is that you have no right as an ex-big party to hide behind us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20059	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20060	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say the same as my colleague, Vlad Ilic, that this parliament would probably be very boring without fellow Milivojevic, because he is always ready to return to some past, probably because he is a man of the past, and we are looking into the future. In this recent past, the government led by Mirko Cvetkovic and DS for Serbia's economy and economy were more devastating than NATO bombing. See how many factories are closed, see how many productions have been destroyed. That can't be compared to your results. There you were, indeed, so that even if you had a good strategy on how to do it, I believe you would not succeed in doing it in the way that you did it in a songy but very successful way, destroying the Serbian economy and economy. You're trying to do it today. Responsibilities, I agree, all the people who bear executive authority are obliged to have responsibility for what they do. Why didn't you think of those responsibilities just two years ago, when we were doing rebalances, when we were doing budget rebalances in December for that same year, because Mirko Cvetkovic spent money, so now we need to pass the law so he doesn't go to jail, 72 hours before the end of the fiscal and budget year? So much for that. I could talk a lot about you, but two minutes is very little, since you've ruined the Rules of Procedure, even that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20061	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20062	How I wish I was bored without you. Unfortunately, I find it interesting, but Serbian citizens do not find it interesting. Serbian citizens always want some answers, so they tell me – ask, please, this. Here's a question for G 17 plus -- if we were so bad, what did you vote for our laws, which we wrote? You were just pushed out here. Did you vote for credit, too? We voted here together. Don't let us give up what was good, and we worked together. That was a good thing we did. It couldn't have been different, it couldn't have been better, and don't give up now. Don't let coalition partners talk about you like this, that you've ruined Serbia over the past two years. Why don't you find some better ones? Then why don't you kick them out of the government? You have 126 and without them. If they're so bad, you have such a bad opinion of them. But you haven't given me a few answers to a few questions. Here, let's say, for the president, as someone said, Nikolic. These days I hear the Ministry of Health will buy one clinic for 20m euros. The clinic is only known for receiving the infusion there by President Nikolic. He was the only patient. While the entire Serbian health care is on the infusion right now, we are now buying a clinic for Tertiary Protection, as it said when that clinic was opening, and where primary protection is no stents, there is no insulin, and that will tell you much better Mr. Dusan Milisavljevic what is not there. When we talk about agriculture, you destroyed agriculture, you know how the city this year destroyed agriculture in Luciani, India. Why didn't Tomislav Nikolic visit at least one of the municipalities that the city touched, so that the disaster would be complete? He comes along nice and he goes around and then the disaster is really complete. It says -- there will be so many rockets, and you don't have to look into the sky and get baptized and it will be anti-building protection in Serbia in the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20063	Thank you. MP Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20064	When it comes to stents, in 2011, a friend from Smederev called me, I can give you a name later, they didn't have a stent to operate on. Don't cover up so much. It's not exactly the best solution. When you mention the rockets, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's no, there's No money, stolen. We had to compensate for the damage to Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Bank, and then the stock reserves of three, four billion dinars. Here, just for the stock reserves, so how many rockets would there be? These are the people who led the DS government back then, who, as you say, were the headquarters, stole, disappeared. As for the travels of the President of the Republic, you can also transfer for that, but you cannot deny that since this government and since this President of the Republic is the president of all citizens that Serbia's reputation in the world is much greater than it was when the president of Serbia was president. You had a private president, just for yourself, just for your own party. Even then he said he was an DS institution. The institution is something that belongs to everyone, and DS is the only one who believes that you are not responsible for what has happened in Serbia in the past 13 years. That's your problem. Don't be so bitter anymore, with so much heart to talk about the results of this government. They may be some for criticism, but be assured that all this work done by this government and this budget rebalancing is nothing more than an exorcised policy for the destruction we encountered when we took over the government and took over Serbia and saw the chaos, hopelessness and poverty.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20065	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20066	Speaking of these missiles, let me tell you something about the missiles. Today at this same press conference, which I was already talking about, held by the first Deputy Prime Minister, as soon as I hear the first Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, said - we did not make fireworks when we received no such date as we celebrated. Of course you didn't, you spent your rockets. You were building fireworks on June 9th, 1999, in Kruševec. I was looking in my eyes from the yard. I don't know what you were celebrating back then? Victory over the NATO Pact? The way we beat them, we barely recovered, believe me. It'll take us another 20 years to recover. Look again to defeat them like that, please, while you're in power. When it comes to the reputation of Serbia and what we enjoy as a state and what a reputation we have, Tomislav Nikolic has raised his reputation. After each of his visits, Aleksandar Vukic and Mrkic also had to run to explain their statements and apologize, to build those bridges that he destroyed with his reckless and pointless statements, when it comes to reconciliation in the region. When you talk about these missiles, there may not be those missiles because they were stolen, but because you don't know how to implement the Public Procurement Act, to buy Serbia what you need. You've been in power for a year. As last year, you did an analysis of these warehouses -- maybe they were full so they were sold during your government, because you're in power for a year? I'm surprised there's peppers in the war reserves, too. Maybe someone's eating and crying over Serbia's fate. Don't let us bring a parliamentary debate to that level. You haven't given a single answer, which is why this is the budget of the future, not the past. You haven't said one thing about how you're going to reduce the deficit? Are you going to negotiate with the IMF or the World Bank? You don't know how to run an economy. You brought Serbia down to the tabloids, to the Farm, to the party, to Cecin's concert, where it is preferable to the Prime Minister to leave than to come to parliament and answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20067	Time. Mr. Arsic, answer me. We'll end up in a circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20068	Ladies and gentlemen, when I hear what my colleague is talking about, I'm pretty worried about his health. I didn't read anywhere that Alexander Vukic said we weren't going to make fireworks at today's conference. Also, I haven't read anywhere that the first Deputy Prime Minister is against the IMF deal. It is said here that the story about the IMF is unrealistic for 2013, but we will address the World Bank in order to continue the programme with the IMF in 2014, the same IMF that you drove out in February and March 2012. When it comes to the date and the controversy whether it is determined or not, gentlemen, you have long cheated on the EU and those down in Kosovo, Serbs and the EU. Now we need to correct and restore trust to accept us as a serious and honest partner and negotiator, because whatever you promised them in the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, you lied. So, be a little realistic and at least accept part of the responsibility for what is happening in Serbia right now. We have a lot of problems with your past. As far as the stock reserves are concerned, as soon as the aflatoxin story is initiated, a stock reserve inspection has been initiated. Your friends had a very good idea that they were moving one of the same goods from silos to silos, until we left, that is, until the inspection began to control all silos at the same time. Then it was seen that there was a shortage in the stock reserves, which occurred during the government of Mirko Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20069	Time. Mr. Jovanovic, I assume you wanted a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. If you wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure, first I have to give you my word, if it's according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20070	Madam Chairman, member 104 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Republic of Serbia, the People's Parliament of the Republic of Serbia, given the fact that speakers in front of the DS are in an extremely incorrect way, literally spit on the SPS parliamentary group, and speak about themselves. It's the best way to manifest one party, speaking of itself. What's very interesting, I hope you'll allow it now, because if you respect someone's style, then you'll certainly respect it, and that style undoubtedly points to the following. Some still haven't learned from other people's mistakes. We recognized our mistakes, we learned experiences... (President: Mr Jovanovic, I am really obliged to warn you that you cannot abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Please, just talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Madam Chairman, I do not abuse. You also allowed the DS representative, when he had the right to use what he should use in the Rules of Procedure, to abuse the same right and not even to warn him. Unfortunately, you're warning me, which is wrong. All the time there's been a story about the ministries, about the apparitions of the whole nine things in relation to the subject we're discussing today. Why is no warning sent to that same speaker? In addition, if it is constantly pointing to some satanic aspect of our coalition, why were the gentlemen with us in the coalition? What makes them say that now? They didn't mind at the time. Now, now they qualify themselves. They were with someone who wasn't right. (President: Mr Jovanovic, for the second time I warn you, do not engage in replication. Others Can Deal? Thank you. I have nothing more to say. It's just enough to warn anyone who's ever been in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here, you can answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20071	Please, it's been a while. Let me answer you. So, you've advertised a breach of Article 104 that regulates the right to replication. What you were talking about really has nothing to do with that article 104. I'll also answer you on the question of DS representatives. I wasn't chairing at the time, and I'm really sorry. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20072	Chairman, I wouldn't treat this as a replica, I'm an authorised representative and you mentioned some grades... (President: Mr. Kasalovic, you are entitled only to the replica as an authorised representative. ) First of all, I want to say that the SPS is a party that has learned lessons from its past, has recognised certain mistakes and we have submitted political responsibility for it. Of course, our policy was assessed by citizens in the elections, as well as by DS policy. What the DS, SPS and all parties are now doing in some of the next elections will reassess citizens. We are convinced that we are leading a policy in good faith for most citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is impossible to pass privatisation, a privatisation law that the SPS did not vote for here and in the day of the budget rebalancing. The process of investigation proves that it was a bad and stealing privatisation, and that in the good part of what the Republic of Serbia is, and to be honest with the positions from which it has entered this major economic crisis, it can be greatly thanked for such a privatisation process. Prime Minister Ivica Dacic is certainly almost from the beginning of the most-time multi-party prime minister, and whenever the last Thursday of the month and points of great importance were present here in the assembly. You even resented him for taking a lot of part in the debate. He expressed his desire to spend all his time, to address everyone, and to answer all possible questions. Ascribed to this tendency that the prime minister is not present, that he does not want to participate in the debate in parliament, I do not think he can stand at all. After all, this government has shown its ability and courage for what the previous government and some other previous governments have not had and missed for many years. (President: Time. ) Tell you the truth, is it good that this government managed to get a date for the start of negotiations or not, and did the previous government deceive, in particular, the prime minister, that the IMF remained in the Republic of Serbia, persuaded us, and in fact left and left Serbia for the conduct of such a policy?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20073	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20074	Ladies and gentlemen, I will try only on a few examples to say what is really new in this budget and how this government is leading the policy when it comes to Roma integration and to try to have a really comprehensive answer to where the funds are in this budget and in this budget rebalancing for Roma integration – whether or not they exist. It's important that we distinguish between two things in this process. One thing that is essentially new is that this government and this budget and budget rebalancing in general recognize the creation of new tools for the implementation of the Roma integration process, and that those budgets that existed before had only funds for the Decade of Roma hidden in different places and positions and that we had the information that Serbia spent 70m euros on Roma integration and that data was correct, because we were confirmed by the President of the European Commission in Zagreb at a meeting when we were on the Stiring Committee of Decade Roma. Then the citizens wonder, why did they not reach them? Why don't they feel better? Why are NGOs not involved in this process? Why were only two or three NGOs exclusive to always and at every meeting, which was in government or in some other segments, being the same people and not being others? What's new in quality now? It is qualitatively new that the Republic of Serbia is funding a different institutional framework consisting of the following segments – primarily there is a Office for Human and Minority Rights. This Office of Human and Minority Rights in which people who simply didn't know their jobs were employed, and the confirmation of that is to say that a month ago, people who have been working in that Office didn't know that they were writing any of the most ordinary Rules of Procedure for the Council for Integration formed by the Government, that they didn't know a number of other things, so we succeeded with the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation to provide mentoring assistance to people who work there, so we wouldn't start certain procedures for these people to lose their jobs, so someone said someone wanted someone to take revenge. We created the conditions for the Office of Human and Minority Rights and the people who are employed in it to meet the needs. What are needs? They need to recognise in the budget and budget rebalancing that, in the part that speaks of agricultural financing, there are grants, that these funds can also compete with Roma to form greenhouses, plastics and to deal with production, that in this budget there are eight million dinars in the urban area and that they need to have the result of Serbia creating a new model in 2014, that the first settlements that will be defined in such a way that they are all socially endangered categories, including Roma, that these socially endangered categories work, that they pay off their jobs to housing units that they have, rather than to have these housing units only given to them, but that these people feel that they participated in creating their housing units. We have more than three million euros at the moment for which the government did not know to put into office together with the city authorities. Finally, we were able to arrange it with the input to put these funds into operation and finally start taking care of the people who are in container settlements, who are magically transferred from "Gazale" and have come into the situation as they are. There are funds that ensure that not only three NGOs but hundreds of NGOs participate in policy consultations defined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and are implemented with the Organisation for European Security and Co-operation and thus directly involve the Roma community in the process, and not as before, that these are two organisations that have exclusivity. The third thing we are currently negotiating, I hope it will be done, in that budget should be the means for Serbia to become the centre of certain regional projects and I can tell you that it has been greatly welcomed by certain directors in the Directorates of the European Commission Mirel and by the Commissioner for Employment of the European Commission and by Ms Vivian Reding from a meeting where we had a conversation with her deputy. They welcome the fact that Serbia is becoming a centre for the realisation of regional projects and the very fact is that Serbia hosted the gathering of all representatives of the Roma parliaments and this gives us one capacity to develop projects, such as the Academy of Young Roma Leaders, where Serbia becomes a centre of education and Roma and other endangered categories that return afterwards to the European Commission and national governments. For all of that part of the funds is provided in this budget of the Republic of Serbia. The paper is that for the first time in a clear way, this is exactly what Pierremirel said was very good that from a seminar where there are conclusions, these conclusions will no longer be the conclusions of the individual, but will be part of the conclusions of the government's Council and thus give legitimacy. If all this wasn't just an empty letter on paper, I'd have to go back to practice and maybe, in part, answer the question of who was, who was the past, why was that anyway? If this institutional framework had not been established in 2007 in Vojvodina, when we co-operated with the Vojvodina government, it would not have happened in 2007 that Vojvodina would have received 1m euros in direct assistance for the Roma integration process, where each student had a 50-euro scholarship. If that's true, it says the fact that in 2008 when we cut off co-operation, then they had no capacity and they didn't realize the effectiveness of this system, which we're talking about, at the republican level and these scholarships were lost in that period and they weren't actually won. That this is really good, what we do with the Ministry of Urbanism, is the fact that the Kulski model, which is now spoken of in Europe as a case of good practice in the care of socially endangered categories, was arranged in the Tower in 2007, and that this is done by Serbia today and that Serbia represents this model as something new, and that after the Tower, no other model has applied. So, so much for people sitting in the SNS parliamentary group. So much for whether people in this parliamentary group were seriously considering certain matters. So much for how much the Roma Party is thinking about really getting close and creating tools that these funds that exist in the Republic of Serbia's budget come to the end of the line. In the end, let me conclude, so much about whether you're in a position to be directly in charge of the government of 12 people, who were employed in 2005, 2007, 2009, that these people didn't know about each other. If there were the funds of international organisations that wanted to boost these capacities, that Serbia has 25 employees who deal with these procedures, I'm sorry, but that's half of the Office of Human and Minority Rights, or that's a quarter of a resolution. So it's not a question of whether there are resources and resources. The basic question is how much we are committed to solving this problem, to exploit the fivem euros that the European Security and Co-operation Organisation is now benefiting from and three million in the city of Belgrade to be used for housing and funds prepared in various parts of the budget, including funds for the employment of citizens in Serbia. After all, it will all help that many things that have been going on the Internet so far, the time when there was media darkness, when we really only had one option affirmed, and allowed only one truth to stand out, to really come out the real truth about this, and in that sense I see the value of this budget, this budget rebalance, and the activity of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's really a much better host to me when he sees half a month that there's something missing to agree with family members on how to solve it, than a host who convinces his family all year round to have money, that there's no problem, and then when the sons set up, then they don't know which debt point they're gonna get caught for before and then they don't know what to do. Our people, the people in Serbia, recognize it, and I recognize it in this act of government, that we need to control things, that we need to negotiate. It's less of a problem to define every month politics than to leave it to the children so they don't know what to do tomorrow, because we didn't do what we had to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20075	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Your time is two minutes and 40 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20076	As far as you said, four minutes. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, the Ministers, the Government's representatives, today we are talking about budget rebalancing. The DSS MPs, when the budget was adopted, said this budget was irrational and that certain adjustments had to be made. That's what we do today. But I will talk about this budget rebalancing from another aspect, how it will affect the living standard of the citizens of southern Serbia and what citizens of southern Serbia can expect after voting this budget rebalance. So the government has defined that it saves the most on those who produce the most, who employ the most, then at school, to health care. This government has defined itself to be saving on agriculture, and it has not been defined as saving on a bulky state apparatus which, you will agree with me, and how it is pre-named for our conditions. Serbia's highest unemployment rate in southeast Serbia is 26.3%. In Jablanic County, it varies between 36-38%. Since the Ministry of Labour and Employment has been denied funds for approximately three billion dinars, Leskovci citizens are afraid that projects such as "First Chance" or public works will be implemented and will be denied for the funds. The other thing I want to talk about is agriculture. Since the Ministry of Agriculture has been denied 3.7 billion, it will hit us most from the south of Serbia. Since about 24 agricultural producers are registered in the town of Leskovac, so 96,000 people depend on agriculture or, if you want to be precise, 61% of Leskovec citizens depend on this primary agricultural production. What you've shortened to the Ministry of Agriculture and how it's going to hit our farmers who've been counting on these subsidies. Mrs Kalanovic said her ministry should be denied 1.7m for capital projects. She says that those municipalities that were counting on these funds will not be able to cross paths, i.e. craters on them located in southern Serbia. We see from this that the budget rebalance will hit us most from southern Serbia, the poorest part of Serbia, from where most of the population is being evicted. I expect, Mr. Minister, that you seriously consider this situation or that we from southern Serbia send a request for a date to receive us to be a full member of Serbia. (Chairman: Time, Mr. Pejcic.) I'm done. After all, what Prime Minister Ivica Dacic said in Nis when he was in a meeting with the presidents of municipalities that the government remembers southern Serbia only when the wars are and that is absolutely true. Looks like whoever stays the last of those spaces is gonna have to turn off the light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20077	The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20078	Dear President, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, listening to all these discussions, I am asking myself one question that I cannot find an answer to, and I will try to find the answer with you. How many unserious and unprofessional people are sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia? I'm really worried about the situation in this country. I'm not going to waste my words on the Minister of Finance, it's enough to take the minutes from the National Assembly... (President: Mr. Senic, please, the topic is now not government, nor professional personnel. Today is a budget debate. Please, don't spread the subject to the staff now, but go back to your budget. Who suggested the budget, if you're so eloquent? (President: You go back to the budget. When there's a government topic, then you're talking about government and government personnel. Please don't get into my word, it's not cultural. So, on the work of the finance minister, I won't waste my words, it's enough to take records from previous sessions and see that the 2013 budget has been announced as its child, that it said for the first time that it has drawn up the budget on its own, that it has had no influence on the side, that the budget deficit has been cut apart by this budget. After that, he was also pleased that the budget deficit was 1.5% lower than the previous year, so he argued that the budget rebalance had already been voted in Russia, with Russia being compared with so many millions of inhabitants and us with seven and a half, clearly being incomparable things. Speaking of professions, the conclusion is that Serbia is the biggest failure of the budget deficit of all the rebalancing that has been done throughout Europe so far. We say agriculture is Serbia's development opportunity and we have a full mouth of agriculture, and 64,000 agricultural landowners are waiting for subsidies to be paid. It is unserious that the agriculture minister says he is waiting for the budget rebalance to pay off the subsidies, and with the budget rebalancing, we cut or cut 3.7 billion dinars for the grant fund. Today, the stock market was harvested with wheat in 2013, priced at 16 dinars. Sixteen dinars is not enough to cover the basic cost of production. With the rebalancing, we're removing a billion-and-a-half for the Stock Reserve Directorate. What will the state intervene and protect farmers so they can start production next year? If they start next year, we heard the prime minister and interior minister that he doesn't know that the Emergency Sector, which as part of his ministry, has been given jurisdiction over anti-urban protection and he refuses to do so. He doesn't know what to do with it. We see that the funds are abolished by this budget to the Emergency Sector and we will definitely have the only anti-building protection by looking into the sky and getting baptized or praying. I don't understand how this country cares about agriculture when it allows production not to take place properly. We don't have the ability to grow agricultural products safely or buy wheat later... I remind you that although you disputed the work of the Trade Reserve Directorate in 2012, the price was 23 dinars of wheat, that last year the price was 20 dinars, and now we've come to 16 dinars. Last year, the price of cherry was 150 dinars, and now farmers get barely 50 dinars. It's our government's policy. Once again, I want to point out the need to deal with other ministers besides the Minister of Agriculture and other ministers, and that the finance minister cannot say – I do not care what is in other ministries, let other ministers set their own budgets, because he is the one who cares about the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20079	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20080	I think, young sir, that you're absolutely right, except you don't see why there's not enough money for agriculture right now. If it wasn't for Agrobank, it would have been more for the agrarian, if it hadn't been for the Vojvodina Development Bank, it would have been more for the development of agriculture. Twenty billion dinars we gave out of the budget to cover these dubiosiss, only in the mandate of our government, and another 40 billion were given in the mandate of the previous government for the unsuccessful and unnecessary, has proved to be capitalized. Is it better if we had 20 billion to give for agriculture or to cover our duets? I'm sure you'd be happier if we had that agrarian money now. The fact is that during the entire term of the previous government, the maltene agricultural budget was only about 2–2.5% of the maximum budget. Now it's 4.25 and after this rebalance and after this forced reduction in part of the funds. I must tell you that Minister Knezevic made sure that when he reduced, he reduced where there would be no such effects as you were talking about. Therefore, it will keep subsidies to farmers directly and reduce some items where investments will be replaced by loans. For example, with the Water Budget Fund, we will, instead of funding irrigation projects from the domestic budget, compete and expect a positive solution from Abu Dhabi's development fund, and hopefully this year we will come to parliament with that ratification contract and get $400 million for agriculture alone. It is minimally true, it is not easy to dispose of and define the budget for any action, and agriculture is, there simply shouldn't be any debate, still the priority sector, but if we hadn't had some completely unnecessary costs that are related to the wrong policy of the previous period, in banking in this case, we would now have much more money at our disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20081	Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20082	The other day, a list of Agrobank debtors was published. The largest among them is the Serbian unprofessional party's fund-raiser, and most of them are SPS associates. You're sitting in government with them right now. I've been looking at this budget rebalance, and I haven't seen the additional costs foreseen for the resolution of Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank, but I've seen the additional cost of resuscitating the debt of the Serbians, two billion, and four of you have almost taken the farmers. What's going on with "Serbiagas"? When you announced that this budget was your child, you knew the situation in both the Agrobank and the Vojvodina Development Bank. My question -- what about the Public Procurement Act, where is 70 billion dinars of savings? You represented it here as an epochal discovery and we said - 70 billion dinars of savings because it's not supposed to be stolen on public procurement anymore. Where's the money? I don't even see the savings fund, and I don't see that they're included anywhere as extra income or as savings. I see you're rebalancing in the middle of the year. (President: Time, Mr. Senic. ) Therefore, it is pointless to defend yourself behind the projects in which you have participated, but accept the responsibility not to know that you are leading the finances of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20083	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20084	Take a closer look at this budget proposal you've received and you'll see the cost of the Vojvodina Development Bank. Just take a closer look at the budget. As far as the Public Procurement Act is concerned, you know that it was going to be applied a month, two days ago, and it's clear that the effects of this law will be visible from the budget for the next year and beyond.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20085	Zoran Kasalovic, on what basis? (Zoran Kasalovic: SPS is mentioned. ) First Kasalovic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20086	A young colleague mentioned it, but he didn't say anything about names. I absolutely deny it's any members of the SPS, sympathisers, financiers, anything. If he may have known what was going on in Agrobank and Development Bank, I must say that we and Serbian citizens did not know and may have been uninformed, but fortunately, this Government of the Republic of Serbia is very clear and determined and has good results when it comes to fighting crime and corruption and there is no one who can stop it. We now all have information about what was going on and what was going on in Agrobank and the Vojvodine Development Bank, and whether this "Vojvodine Development Bank" should have financed some projects that would have contributed to the development of the AP Vojvodina or if we had a situation that a developed province had come to the bottom and by the average salary and by the general state of infrastructure in Vojvodina. Not to say that there is a clear eviction of some of the population from Vojvodina towards some major centres, above all the New Sad and Subotics, because there are simply no living conditions. Where's your money, where they're done, who's been taking credit, we know that. It has been mentioned here several times that someone doesn't know how to run public finances. I asked you. A session of the Committee on Finance was held at the LDP initiative at the end of 2011, the minister and prime minister assured us that the IMF continues the arrangement, that we may have some disagreements about issuing guarantees, the capitalisation of the commercial bank, but that our public finances are excellent, okay and that the IMF remains. I am telling you that he has also deceived members of the Committee on Finance, MPs, the public of Serbia. Here was the question – who will you cooperate with, with the IMF or the World Bank? How can you cooperate when they are deceived?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20087	The word has Veroljub Arsic, replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20088	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I've told my younger colleagues that at least they're trying to criticize, but they're telling the truth. It has been said that members of the SNS stand on the list of debtors. The word on the list is that the name and last name of Dusan Stupar is really on the list. In Belgrade alone, there are nine in the phone book. Also, according to the Serbian phone book, there are 27 of them. Dear fellow, if you are so brave, come here to the press, not to hide behind the immunity of the MP because when you speak from the pay phone, immunity exists and is uninjured. Go out and say – Dusan Stupar, the chairman of the SNS municipal board from Zveztar, is on the list of debtors "Agrobanka". Why can't you come out? It's the easiest way to talk. He also read your president of the Parliament Club, so he won't. He realized that maybe he wasn't right about everything. As far as this robbery is concerned, someone wants to convince me that the loans were granted and that the property that was paid for those loans doesn't correspond to the credit value, so it's multiple smaller, that the money isn't shared with whoever's taking the credit and with whoever approved it, and that's where your staff is standing. So, in the forest that disappeared from Agrobank, at least 30% were taken by board members. What about the vice governor who controlled the business of Agrobank? He didn't miss the hair on his head because the report was fake. What about Development Bank? Are there SNS members here or are we going to get to Bojan Pitiæ? Stop talking to us that way. Criticize realistically, but don't make up facts and spread false information.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20089	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20090	Dear Mr. Arsic, I had to take this, and I wanted to avoid it. I'm asking if you can say this outside without your immunity, what you just said about Bojan Pitiæ and DS? It's a very awkward thing. It's a sword with two blades. We have read and in the first place is Mr. Stupar. There may be a lot of them, but there's only one from the Universal Bank and there's only one room your party is sitting in. I don't know if he's your member, I really don't know, but I know this isn't what Laufer told us, like you used to do, but he published a "Blic" - daily. So we read the newspaper article and asked if it was true. Is it true that two-thirds of people are close to the SPS and SNS? What's the problem? We want to tell you to stop turning the Assembly into a courtroom and stop turning public space into a prosecutor's office. Here, let people do their job. There may be five Oliver Dulics, but they only dropped the charges once. This is the Serbia where you want us to live, where you come out here and say, "This party is equal to crime." When it comes back to you, then you say, "Come out and say it." Who do you think we fear after a year of lies, a media link, turning your country's administration into the Serbian prosecutor's office? Who's more afraid of you, gentlemen? I guess we proved that we are very resistant to your nonsense and lies that you are spreading across Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20091	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20092	If your newspaper articles are the only source of information, then I have nothing to say. It's true, it's written, but it's not true what's written, and here it's said as if it's true. That's the difference. Why did the charge go down? Probably because we haven't turned the Central State Department into a prosecutor's office after all. In that prosecution, there's all those prosecutors you named. It's not us, it's you. The only one who's been cleared has been cleared because he's acquired retirement conditions, no more reasons. If the indictment is unprofessionally written, at least you're carrying a little responsibility, too. Do not convince us, nor negotiate that it is we who are running the prosecution, that we are the ones who influence it, especially because they have worked very closely with many lawyers sitting in MPs' benches in the DS. Don't tell us that. Don't talk because I know how prosecutors were stationed in Pogorevec both in the primary and senior court, how prosecutors and judges were appointed and where who was sitting. How come suddenly a 60-year-old lawyer becomes a senior court judge? Well, because he's close to the DS people. In the 1960s, he became a judge of a higher court, no less, and in front of a pension, a man, to make an average because his lawyership, as professional as he was, did not go. Now we have to work with such judges and prosecutors because we respect the law and the Constitution. The fact that the indictment dropped, it fell because of unprofessional craftsmanship, not because there is no alleged basis for suspicion that a crime was committed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20093	Please bring this circle of replicas to an end. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20094	I think the problem is what you're saying -- what are we supposed to do with such judges and prosecutors? You have nothing to do, they are independent. That's what you can't possibly understand. You say, "This man has been released, we demand that the prosecution be changed." You remember those statements, not you personally, but from your authority? It didn't suit you that someone was released from custody. You say, "If he's released, it's a personal defeat." Isn't that an influence on the prosecution? There's no such thing as ours and your prosecution. These people are independent and they have to be. But to put that aside, it's not right for you to get up in this house and talk about who's with who, who and where. You who have 670 judges with a SNS membership card. Then we can dream of an independent judiciary. We were just asking you to tell us if they returned the membership card, which is fine, but you didn't tell us, or didn't? If they're back, we accept that they meet the legal requirements. If they're not, then we don't accept. We neither accept nor meet the conditions. This is the foundation of the rule of law. That's the point, it can't be how you want to do the job in the tabloids, that the prosecutor has to do the same thing as the judge, and if not, it's the yellow judges and the yellow prosecutors. It's a shame. It won't work out for you, people, because there are honest people who apply the law after all. They were both in our power and yours, and they will always be. Those people will finally confirm the rule, I'm sure of it. You can't lie to all people all the time. That's the problem with your client. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20095	The word is Mr Veroljub Arsic and we end the replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20096	I won't answer again, Mr. Chairman, just for this part of the line to say, and this will be the last. On one occasion, in 2002 or 2003, one of your activists offered one man a name, I can tell you later, access to the DS. This one's wrinkled and thrown. I went and I picked up that access card. In addition to the basic data in the access, such as the name, last name, address, home number, etc., the expert cooker writes, so the question is – is the judge somewhere and where, if the holder is a public function? That's what your access cards said back then. I can find her if you want. As for the independent judiciary and the independent and independent prosecutor's office, they've never been more independent and independent than ever before. So you're saying that all the classified information is that 360m euros went missing from Agrobank, that we invented it? No, it was stolen. No one can deny that. That's what someone needs to answer for. When it comes to the Vojvodine Development Bank, what did we do with the Vojvodina Development Bank recapitalisation in this same Assembly and turn it into the AP Vojvodina Development Fund? Because she had losses for loans some received and didn't pay back. Is that a fabrication? It's not. Is fiction what happened to Azotar in Panchevo? It's not. What are we making up? We can talk about whether it was legal or illegal, but the fact is that some things were happening at some point, and there was no proper documentation. What is the responsibility of the executives of these organs? It will be decided by the courts and we will not interfere. We do not wage personal wars against you or anyone else, but those who have put their hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens will have to respond regardless of which party, whether from your party or from the SNS, is absolutely whatever.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20097	I ask the People's MPs not to receive loudly. The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20098	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the Honorable Minister, we warned you at the end of last year, when you came to this assembly with a draft budget, that a rebalancing would come very soon, because it was completely unrealistic. We suggested there as DS that you have some concrete policies, because Serbia is in a difficult economic situation. You didn't want to listen, you claimed you made great savings, that it was one measured budget, very real. Turns out he's completely unreal and doesn't fully reflect the image of our economy that you run, or you've been running politics in that economy for 10 years. As much as you say we are exaggerating, we will continue to criticise you because DS is not a small opposition party that can be bought by a board of directors at Telecom Serbia. Unfortunately, what we're saying today is true and we want Serbian citizens to hear that truth. We regret that there are no other members of the government here today and that there are no Prime Minister Dacic, because if they were here, we could ask some other facts that are important, and they concern this budget. We could ask which mobsters, criminals, are controlling police in Serbia today, as the president said. Also, let's see what's true. Is it true that Serbia has received difficult conditions from Bundestag for the January date, or is it true that we have already started negotiations, as the prime minister says? We were also able to ask if Zarko Obradovic would finally resign, following the ruse of tests and the disastrous state of education and education. I'm sorry my colleagues are insolent, but this is the truth that needs to be heard. That's right, this is the budget, this is where the economic policies are discussed, and this is the point that we're talking about and about these topics. The subject is also the Government, gentlemen. We were hoping you'd come with economic policies and measures today and we'd discuss them. Unfortunately, you have come with the announcement of some reforms that, of course, will not happen. It will not happen, as has not occurred in public enterprises either, as has not occurred since the adoption of the Public Procurement Act. Where are they embedded in this budget and the savings you announced? You say, "It will come from next year." Where are the savings this year? Where is everything promised, as far as public enterprises are concerned? They're collapsed today. There are no reports on the implementation of the business programme, no directors elected after the competition. Today, he criticises the old government, led by the DS, head of the back-party resolution, head of the finance portfolio that runs the "Telecom", and in Telecom today is a tectonic finance disorder, because secretaries become sector heads, because we have such a pay jump, that even the big company can't handle it. Today in Serbia, we have a terrible economic situation, precisely because you are unprofessional and you do not know how to run economic policy. The average salary in May is 10% lower than in April and 6.2% lower than in April last year and that's true. At the same time, basic food prices are up to 30%. The budget gap is growing, it will be over two billion euros by the end of the year, perhaps, since you are no longer fully in control of the country's finances. You think you'll be able to make that inflow into the budget you're expecting? I'm afraid that won't happen. Stop telling the truth, it won't be better for the citizens of Serbia. The number of unemployed is growing, no matter what you say or what your labour poll says. In my region, unemployment is over 35%, and you can't deny it. In order to prove that you hired and that this is the only growth in public sector employment, I brought data from your organization's website managed by your Director of the National Employment Service. It is said: "According to April 2012, the number of legal persons employed by 6,700 has been reduced. The biggest decline was: trade, processing industry, service activities, education, construction, health care, everything that generates additional income. The largest growth of employees in 12 months was: administrative activities of 5,219 persons, professional services and technical activities 3,028, water economy 1.414, state administration 927". This is the growth in employment that you are talking about today, and this is what Jorgenka Tabakovic is talking about. It's one big nothing, Mr. Dinkich. What do we also expect of you to hear, what are the measures that you foresee for the workers you've given the severances? You've saved money for cancellations and a one-way ticket to the labor desk. Where's the policy that's gonna hire them? You didn't tell us that, we didn't hear that. We are for restructuring, for reforms, but we are not at all for citizens to stay in the street with 2,000 euros in their pocket. That's not our policy. We want the offers to be measured concretely, that they be implemented and that this country finally starts the economy that you've been leading backwards for 10 years. What did the government offer in this rebalancing? I'll just give you some examples. In addition to less money for agriculture, science and education, infrastructure, health care, emergency situations, all that matters, today the KIM Office of Alexander Vulin has 16 million more to travel. Where are they going to travel? There's 60 million for contracts, and there's no money for children's vaccines. Is that possible? You're telling us this isn't a pre-election budget. Crown evidence, five million more for travel to the government's press co-operation office. They had 300,000, and now they have five and eight hundred. There are increases, there are increases in clean costs, and there are no development policies. The Democratic Party will not support this rebalancing, because it is deeply wrong and unrealistic and because it will bring Serbia into an even deeper crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20099	Thank you. The word has Minister Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20100	I understand all of you, there's no reason to be nervous or aggressive, bring out what you have. Now I'm going to read you something to maybe better assess the environment we're in. The government has provided a total savings of 750m euros in the 2013 Rebalance proposal. The agreed austerity measures are next. For defence, international co-operation, diplomacy, this year's savings will be 100m euros in the budget envisioned by the rebalance. For healthcare, 88m euros will be lower this year. The addition for the upcoming new school year intended for the purchase of school supplies, a textbook assigned per child will be reduced by 15% and next year by an additional 30%. Companies that did business with losses, which gave dividends to their shareholders, will no longer be able to be exempt from paying taxes and will have to pay a minimum amount, so-called. Fair tax. This way, it will be in the state register of 40m euros by the end of this year. You might be wondering what I read to you. This is a copy of the Belgian budget's proposal, a far more developed country than Serbia, which is also doing rebalancing these days. I've already mentioned France to you. So, it is not such that Serbia is the only one having problems achieving income. All countries have that in Europe. It's simple, criticism is always welcome, if it's well-intentioned, if you can help us fix things. We brought, of course, our plan. If you can fill it in, it's welcome. When we talk about the employment rate, about those who have jobs, whether in the official, or in the informal economy, I mentioned that information, I'll repeat it again. In April of this year, although it is a figure that is not enough, work in both the formal and informal economies, in agriculture, is a total of 2,227,000 citizens of Serbia, and a year ago, 2,157,000. This year 69,814 citizens are more than a year ago, with an increased share of those working in the gray economy. The assessment, according to the Labour Force poll, is that about 405,000 people work completely in the gray economy, that they are not recorded, that employers do not pay them contributions and taxes, and that is something that we now want to fix with our own measures. So I just think that we should talk to a balanced dictionary, calmly, without anxiety, because this situation where our government is at the moment, where there are many governments in Europe and, of course, it's better that we come here to parliament, I absolutely think it's a better way, than a colleague from the Serbian Progressive Party said that my predecessors were waiting December to then avoid admitting to break the law, and then just doing rebalancing, there somewhere before New Year's Eve. So, a lot of things we can fix, I've already told you that both the IMF and the Fiscal Council, even though they were more conservative than me and there's no dilemma in making this year's budget, that they missed an estimated 70, 80 billion. It's real, it's not easy to plan a budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20101	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, I don't see any reason for replication. Let's hear it, but I can't see. To tell you the truth, I don't see any reason, simply the minister has just given an explanation for your exposure. Here, let me hear it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20102	I'm not happy with the answer. Is it possible that you won't give me a parliamentary right? Thank you. Mr Dinkic, I thank you for your response, but I don't think he's the answer the Serbian citizens expected. I'm asking you how you're going to hire the workers you're sending to work with that severance company. How are you going to hire them? Here, it says that this current budget proposal, the budget rebalance, says the Employment Fund is shrinking by three billion. How do you think you hire these people? They'll spend money, they'll be unemployed, they'll be dissatisfied, a social bomb is being created. In many cities in central Serbia, where these companies are in restructuring we will have no way to solve the problem. I'm asking you how we solve the problem? The statistics you're talking, the percentage, they don't agree with the real state of life at all. Because you can check that, if you go to any city in Serbia, to see that citizens are unhappy, that everyone is looking for a job and that the real projections of the unemployed are far higher than those 22.4% last year, probably and probably much bigger than that 24% today. So your data is completely irrelevant, it's important what is the situation in the economy. The situation in the real sector is that people are fired, that they are not employed, they are employed only in the public sector, that's what I asked you about. Why isn't the Law on Public Enterprises applied, why we're jeopardizing the survival of these same public enterprises, because they're all that's left in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20103	The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20104	On the contrary, the data from the labour force survey is very real. They show all the weight of the present situation. Because, according to this data, a year ago in April, 736.800 people were looking for an active job, and now in April of this year, 708,688 people are actively looking for a job. If you think it's a small number, I don't think it is. So 700,000 people are out of work and actively looking for it. In the pre-crisis period, I remember in 2006 it was about five hundred and a few thousand. So five hundred and a few thousand was the figure from the labor poll when the unemployment rate was 14%. But the fact is, there's a shift now, because 28,000 people are less than a year ago. But nobody's saying it's a small number, the unemployment rate of 24.1% is extremely high. I'm aware of what 708,000 people mean, it's a huge number. We are aware of these responsibilities, I told you, today was repeated by my colleague Mr. Vukic at a press conference. Our goal is to reduce the unemployment rate, not below 20%, it won't be at least easy, but that's the key goal of this government, to try and employ more people. This problem cannot be solved overnight, especially because of this crisis. As for fictitious jobs in companies that haven't actually had a job in 20 years, I think even those people who work in these companies, who don't have a product, they don't have a market, they don't actually come to work, and the reforms have some kind of subsidy, they're going to be relieved in some way. There are 787, let me tell you. So 787 people work at 27 companies, which we're running into bankruptcy this summer. So that's a small number, a minor number compared to the total number of people who work in restructure companies. So for 27 companies, 787 people receive a 20-year salary from this company, Malta doesn't do anything. They'll get a 300-euro severance allowance per year, I know it's not some comfort for them, those who are close to retirement, we'll try that if they can't make it to the market after a certain period, to try to use a special programme, to go to retirement early. Of course, we're in the mood to go with the National Employment Service and the severance program to work, or if someone wants to make the most of their investment in a new job, they'd be happy to support it. The fact is that many people who haven't worked for 20 years, now more realistically and don't want it, now want to retire, want to have some security. How do I know that? Well, I know, when we had a case when "Beneton" came to "Nitex", when "Jura" came to the former "The flag of electricity" and we asked the workers -- who wants to keep working, in Raca of 300 workers, 290 seemed to me, reported to the social program, voluntarily, although they got an offer to go to a job interview. In Nis of 600 workers, 500 people reported to the social programme. It was similar in May 1st from Pirot. There was a job offered for a thousand and a half people, Malten, most of them said -- no, we'd rather take the social program, because they have some other possibility of work or retire with that money. That's our reality, that a whole generation of people who haven't had an adequate job for 20 years, lost their will, and that's the problem of that middle generation that's trying. That's the problem of how to solve it, which is unfortunately the social problem of this country. We have to ensure everyone who wants to do the job, to offer them that opportunity, but we have to turn to youth employment first of all, because that's kind of the future, because those who haven't worked for a long time, I tell you, even when you offer them a job, unfortunately, they plead that they would rather take the social programme and leave the job. It's not their fault, what happened to Yugoslavia's collapse with the loss of the market, with a backlog in technology. But it's worse to extend the illusion, because it's not the cost of this country that we pay someone who doesn't do anything. That's wrong, because they have those who work, so they earn their wages. The bigger the problem, the more electricity, the more water, the more taxes are not paid and the indirect costs of 750m euros are generated. But what we'll all try to do together, and whoever's there to support us, is welcome, regardless of whether it's in the ruling coalition or the opposition, that case by case, we try to find solutions for the biggest ones left in the restructuring and who have at least any chance of finding the right partners. It's absolutely certain that out of these 54,000 people, most people will stay to work, but we hope they won't work in companies with no perspective, but will work in companies that have a future. Belarusian Amkador's largest company has now officially announced it is going to the process of taking over certain property continents "First Petoletak" from Triestenik. Surely the people who work with them will have a good future because the Five-year-old has been selling most of her products to them for many years now. It's one of the bigger companies, even for the European level. We have to do the same for others. Of course, for those who can't follow this or don't want us to have no choice but to pay off a 300-euro social programme per year internship. I say again, whoever of these people has a wish, elan, to try to find a job the National Employment Service is ready to follow him with a severance program to work. Unfortunately, although it's a good program a small number of such people decide on this program, most want to get severance and then after that, if it's possible to retire as soon as possible and that's unfortunately our reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20105	Mr. Jovanovic, here you go, but we're done with the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20106	I think it's an important topic, and we need to get a full answer on this issue of quitting.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20107	No, Mr. Jovanovic. I've given you a replica now, and if you think you insist on going on, I won't let you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20108	Of course, the replica. So I didn't get the full answer. I asked you to tell me the way we're going, here's an example. Many companies in restructuring that employ a large number of citizens, and they have been in trouble for years, and I agree with you for years, and you also run this country's economy, and you know what the positions of these companies are, "October 14th" Kruševac, "Magnochrom" Kraljevo, "Gosa", "The Car Factory" Kraljevo, what are we going to do with them? What are we gonna do with these people? Are we going to put 2,000 euros in their pocket and into the streets? That's what I asked you, and I asked you for an answer, and I don't accept that one whole generation is lost. Why don't we as a state have some kind of measure? Why don't we lower our contributions to the profits paid by those who are members of that lost generation, so that they can hire themselves or possibly stimulate companies to hire them. Why can't we do that? Why can't we find savings here? That's one suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20109	Thank you. Minister Dinkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20110	Each of these companies is a case for itself, and when you mentioned "Vagon Factory" for all car factories, the government provides a programme to work for Serbian railways A car construction programme. So there's the Gosa, and the Iron and Wagonka from Nis and the Car Factory, the Royal and Subotic Factory and the Shin Train from Zrenjanin. So, everyone who exists now essentially gets I mean almost two billion dinars a year from the budget, and we haven't cut that money to employ capacities and it's been going on for a long time. They work for Serbian railways or Republika Srpska railways. So where there's a program that makes sense, of course we encourage it. As for some other companies, I already said the biggest of these companies that are now in restructuring will come out successfully from that restructuring. First of all RTB "Bor" with 5,000 employees, then Petrochemy with one serious number of employees, the PKK also in restructuring, I hope that it will be able to survive on the market, the ZBOP that remounts the railways will also come out and stay out of restructuring without a problem because it is a good company. It will be a challenge now to solve the Petolet, we begin to solve it with the Amkador will be a challenge of FAP, and an even bigger challenge will be the flag of trucks, it will be the challenge of October 14th, and it certainly is companies where we will do our best to find something to solve. "IMT" and "IMR" also, aged tractor models, we need to find a solution that instead of what has no future, factories in the middle of New Belgrade, it is clear that this is no future, but that Serbia needs a agricultural machine factory, we need to see, and find a solution, that we have a product that is not enough for the Serbian market alone, but that can be sold in the world, because the economy has a bearing on profitability. So, certainly as we've done so far, to solve the issues of the most large and important in one company, because we know what "FAP" means for Priboj, "FAP" equals Priboj, like "The Irons" equals Smeder's. So there's literally no life for certain cities without them. We know how much the Krushevac economy has failed. We know what it means to find a solution, either in existing factories, or to bring in a completely different producer, to produce something the market wants, but the city can't be left behind, no matter what. We know about the crows, because the crows had a "Costane," and now there's no "Kostana." But now they're going to have the Gooks, and that's one of the world's largest shoe manufacturers. It's got "Simpo," it's huge and it's gonna stay, it's not bad that Italian Ditre's coming too. Subotic doesn't have any giants from the past, but that's why Continental. Svarovski is going to build his factory, has six or seven new factories in Subotica. The point is to secure a job that is sustainable on a long-term basis. As far as these companies are concerned, BIP is now doing a positive business, it's one of the restructuring firms that won't have a problem getting out of it and we can't look at it in isolation. The point is, we're going to try to find a solution for those difficult cases, and that's where we're going to have the biggest problem. As for some companies, such as the Genex, which was once a giant, and not in life who knows how many years, there all people know that simply such an enterprise has no perspective and it will go bankrupt. The same goes for the rest of the EI in Nis, the same goes for the rest of the former flag, which now only exists on paper. We will unbiasedly do an analysis where there is nothing, we will pay people a social programme and try to find some other investors and investments to give these people some safe jobs, not to go to work that they don't have.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20111	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20112	Dear Minister, listening to this debate on budget rebalancing, I need to draw attention to something that is most important, and that is a struggle for the lives of our citizens. While we are here talking and fighting with some arguments, we are talking about some figures, I will tell you that this budget rebalance, as well as the previous budget of this republican government, has not respected our nation's health status, and I think it is most important, more important than any negotiations with the EU, than anything. While we're talking here, three girls are fighting for their lives. One of your owners who's supposed to go to London for a heart transplant, one from Erdewik who has to transplant both heart and lungs, one from Prokuplje, where the Toplice citizens are joining together to help these citizens. I ask you, should this budget be the budget of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or should it be the budget of the Republic government, which would satisfy some of its ambitions and some of its things in the key ministries. The nation's health is the most important thing. You can't spare your health, you can save your health, you're judging these kids, literally, I'm not going to say that scariest word and that diagnosis, you're judging them, because there's no money and you tell those parents, we don't have the money to treat your children. I will fight, as long as we don't change it through the DS, because it's this inhumane way where you don't see the suffering of parents who have to beg and beg on different human actions, on different televisions, where they get the support of journalists, the media, but it's not enough, because they have to get the support of this country. In addition to these three girls, I'll tell you if you're willing to wait oncology patients aren't reduced. The promise was that you'd buy air therapy machines and you'd cut waiting lists. The lists are also piling up for cataract surgery, the number has increased, again more than 20,000, and we said last year, we're going to cut that number, and this time I'm telling you that that number has increased even more. There's an increase in the number of patients awaiting cancer treatment. People, the 21st century, Mr. Dinkic, I would ask you, at least look me in the eye and say, "So, in the 21st century, our citizens die because no one in the government has a face, no one has to say, "I'll separate the money." What do these gondola money mean to you, what money means to you, what money to you to shipbuilding means to you, what does credit mean to you to the Republic of Serbia, to computers and wagons? What are we talking about? Come on, it's the money of Serbian citizens, it's not your money, let's cure our nation first, and then invest in some further investments afterwards. Since I don't have much time for my parliamentary group, I'll tell you that our health care, health care is the Middle Ages. I'll tell you that in many hospitals you don't even have an anaesthetic apparatus, that in many hospitals you don't have sterilization machines, and then you're surprised that you have cressilla, which you have different epidemics. Because no one's been keeping an eye on the Ministry of Health for the past 20 years, and over the past 20 years, you've had the highest authority in that ministry. Our health care, Serbia's health system has been defeated and Serbian citizens see it every day. Please, in the coming days through the amendments that I submitted on behalf of the DS, I found resources where I downloaded from your Ministry of Finance, various specialized services, which I don't understand what you're doing, subsidies to public non-financial enterprises, to direct that money to those who need it most, and these are our sick children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20113	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20114	I really ask you not to be rude, because calling anyone, even if my colleague, who runs the Ministry of Health, wants to suffer anyone in this country, doesn't want to give money for some operations, and you know very well, because I know that you work in health, that there have been no funds in front of you for any kind of operation, and that it wasn't approved even at the time when you were running the government, and it wasn't approved before. There have always been certain diseases for which there was not enough means to treat, unfortunately. The Health Fund has a surplus of eight billion dinars, but that surplus is not enough for some people in need of health care here to perform an operation, they must go abroad and they, neither covered it during your term, nor in the period of Kostunica, nor Djindjic's, never covered it. Why didn't you say that then? I agree that it needs to be human and help people who have such a problem. It's not right to criticize the Minister of Health for that. Why don't you ask your party leader, who is 100m euros or who knows how much he did when he got into politics on the media, which he didn't give at least 10% of that to treat those kids?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20115	The word is Mr. Vladimir Ilic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20116	A 107th member has been injured with dignity. I think this has gone too far. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated, and this criticism we have heard is the criticism of the naked people who themselves say they were watching the budget. I believe they looked at him, they didn't understand him, they couldn't understand him. If someone here in the National Assembly says they're building such a gruesome structure, they say three girls are fighting for their lives and they're being judged by someone, and they don't say a colleague to what, and that means what, then it's an unprecedented act. Shame on you, buddy. You're accusing the government, the minister of condemning someone here, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20117	Please, Mr. Ilic, don't use words like that. I understand you've been gunned down, but I'm asking you to treat the MPs with dignity. I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt. If you stay in that position, we can make a statement in the voting day. Do you want to? (Vladimir Ilic: No. Thank you. The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20118	Mr. Chairman, Art. In 106 and 107, in connection with holding order at the National Assembly session, Article 108, and a member of 107, a dignity deeply marred by the presentation of Minister Dinkic, who addressed the elevated tone of MPs as being rude, you did not react. Regardless of the things that are said here with increased emotions, however, I do not think it is acceptable for anyone to turn around, and especially for the executive authority towards the representatives of the citizens and to speak to them – shame on you, you are rude, and what your party president, the man who controlled not only all finance and economy, but also health care in this country, is now raising his finger on us, it is not correct. If it's an answer, answer it. If it's not for an answer, don't answer it. If anything hurts and insults you, say it, all right. What you're saying isn't true, and I won't answer. I don't think anyone here should be teaching anyone order, but MPs should still be spared the jacuzzi of the executive government when they're asked awkward questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20119	All I owe you is an answer to the Rules of Procedure's injuries. I fully agree and appeal that MPs communicate in a decent and dignified way, and in that sense I reacted. So I don't think that's why I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, because I reacted. If you think we should plead on Voting Day, about hurting the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Stefanovic, do you want to? (Borislav Stefanovic: No. ) The word is Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20120	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Art. 103, 104, 105, 106, and I'll talk about article 106. The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I agree that by letting it talk about Gilas, to talk about his wealth, to say that he does not give money even though he has earned hundreds of millions of euros, etc... ( Bozidar Djelic, from the place: What is this? Hold on a second, hold on. I agree that this is not the topic of the agenda, that it should not have been allowed to talk about the enormous wealth of President of DS, Mr. Gilas, not wanting to be Mr. Gilas's lawyer, I don't think it was the subject of the agenda, and I don't know why it's such a fuss, when I'm in a certain way on your side. I agree that your President DS's wealth, measured hundreds of millions of euros, is not the subject of this debate, and therefore I do not ask to vote on this injury, but to avoid being out of context, to mention this kind of wealth outside the agenda, not to mention that man has not allocated certain funds from those 100m euros to sick girls. It's really not the subject of the agenda. This time, I will gently challenge the chairman and the minister who spoke of it, because it really doesn't make sense to mention the wealth of the gentleman and the president of the DS. I'm not asking you to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20121	Thank you for not asking to vote and plead, but I still have an obligation to give an answer. I have to say, I think you're wrong, because despite some trips, people have been talking about the subject, as far as I'm concerned. So, since you're not looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it stays as we agreed. Mr. Ilich, on what grounds? (Vladimir Ilic: Replica due to the mention of the parliamentary group and the reply to Mr Stefanovic. ) Mr. Ilic, Mr. Stefanovic has advertised the Rules of Procedure. (Vladimir Ilic: At the end of the presentation he looked back and mentioned my parliamentary group. No, no. Please, you have no right to a replica, I apologize. Stefanovic was talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it wasn't a replica. (Vladimir Ilic: He referred to my discussion. Never mind, he advertised that I hurt the Rules of Procedure, not you. (Vladimir Ilic: Well, what difference does it make, but he mentioned, he misread my presentation. You have no right. The word is Dusan Milisavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20122	Dear Chairman, I am really confused as a doctor and as a professor of medical school who has spent his whole life fighting for the lives and health of citizens and today my step-up has been to draw attention to the threat of the health care system by this government, which has no means in the budget to regulate the normal treatment of our citizens. Perhaps now you will react, surely you will, and I have been struck by your exposure and exposure to your head of Parliament, I think you should at least be so worthy of covering your ears, because your Vice President G 17 plus, Tomica Milosavljevic, destroyed Serbian health. You've been in the health care sector longer than the Queen of England and I ask you not to perform. I'm just saying that this budget hasn't found the resources for our sick children, that it hasn't found the means to treat our citizens, but it's found funds to buy a hospital that has no purpose, where there was only one patient, so are we going to buy factories with a Styrofoam, do we now have to spend 20 million euros on health e-books, why? Let me remind you, in 2008, the EU gave 72m euros for the development of an information system, this is information from the Ministry of Health that I asked for as chairman of the Health and Family Committee, who ate 72m euros for electronic health books and for building an information system in Serbia. My question, after I've received the answer, I'm going to ask for responsibility, given that a lot of money has been spent and nothing has been done on this plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20123	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20124	I may have reacted a little unmeasured, and I can apologize for that, for the way I reacted, but not for what I told you, because you did something that was really the worst, you tried to politically trade with someone else's accident. You know that up until a year ago, the Health Insurance Fund was leading the Democratic Party's position, and was there then money to treat such difficult cases? Was it really? Tell yourself if you're a professor, a doctor, be honest, was it then? Were there in the mandates of previous governments? Unfortunately, there was never enough money in Serbia to cure or pay for special treatment abroad. It is, unfortunately, but it's a fact. You really don't want to build a political career on other people's accidents, because it's cursed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20125	National MP Vladimir Ilic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20126	You didn't answer what those children were condemned to, when you mentioned it. That's what hit me, so I reacted as I reacted. As for the lack of funds, we've been talking about it for months. Those robberies you've made have led to us having this deficit in our budget, that these two banks have eaten 600m euros, to pay 90 billion each year for interest. Look at the top of your party, I'm all rich to the rich. Your party chief has 25 companies whose wealth has increased 1,000% in five years as they operate. That's what we talked about here and that's what the media says. Is that normal and is that possible? Why didn't he separate 1% of his enormous wealth to help those children? He can pay for hundreds of these operations. Did he pay for one? You remember how Mr Djelic came to Serbia. I boasted that he slept on his aunt's couch. He's a rich man today. Did he buy his aunt a new couch? Mr. Sutanovac, Mr. Pajtic, people who own companies in Serbia and half of Serbia have property. They emptied every budget and now you're talking about where that money is? Look at my client. Look at the other parties. Let's see where these parties have at their disposal, if they have companies, if they're doing it in Serbia what your bosses are doing. I am sorry that you defend them and defend that policy, those who ate and drank everything in Serbia and buried everything in their pockets and made these citizens sick. Now you're transferring that responsibility to us? Tell me from my party, you know who's at the top of the party, to see one who has a company, who has a firm, who deals in Serbia? Here's Dinkic, you've been attacking him for ten years. What's he got? What's up, Susan? What's up, Veronica? Do I have a firm? Is there a Snow White? There is no one who has a firm among you at the top of the party, not between you here, but in the DS and so you keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20127	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20128	It would be nice if we could stop it like this, but this degree of rudeness and rudeness that you tolerate, Mr. Chairman, that a man whose source is all the literature in life is "Kurr", and on TV, Pink, who believes in what people in power and lies are about to launch, is now getting up here in this home, and it's beating up one MP group and one stranger. Mr. Ilic, I told you a hundred times, we don't need 10, 20, 30 companies. You only have one company, it's the state of Serbia, which you've been milking for 15 years, Mr. Ilic. I told you nice last time. Well, you don't have companies, you do it past the company, by the way. Last time we asked you, please, whoever stole it, go to jail. Compare the property, explore the property. Well, you're not as sure as you are here, not yourself. With what right do you point your finger at anyone here? Whoever made the money in this country, paid taxes and worked in a fair way, has the right to work. Do you protect the interests of large capital, the URS? That's a shame what you allow in this assembly. We need to talk about the catastrophic budget rebalancing, and when you don't know what to say, when you're not able to make a decent indictment in this country, then you stand up and point your finger at someone and say, "Your president has companies." What's illegal about it? What's illegal in anything? They've been talking here for a while. You've got a fortune. Those fortunes doubted how much money you gave to get on the MP's list. Why don't you say it here? Do you think we don't know anything about you in the DS? It's a shame. Do not tolerate this, because DS will no longer participate in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20129	National MP Dragan Shormaz wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20130	And I must now insist – Article 103, Article 104, Article 105, Article 106, all members. It's happening again. I don't know how long this is gonna take, Chairman. You have to stop. It's not about Mr. Gilas's companies making $973 million at the end of 2011. That's not the point. That's official data, Mr. Borko Stefanovic. It's been published, but it's not a topic. The theme is something else. Also, calling a hospital, which is usually a private hospital, which is an investment in Belgrade's territory, but here several times, and no one will say that, say all private hospitals in Belgrade, this same Republic Health Protection Institute took away money at the time of the DS...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20131	Mr. Shormaz, please, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you've gone on line. As far as the agenda is concerned, how many MPs will stick to the agenda does not depend solely on me, Mr Shormaz, or the chairman. That depends solely on the MPs. When someone calls someone and feels threatened, I am in charge, according to the Rules of Procedure, of giving a man to a replica, as I am obliged to give the right to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So it's up to you. I will seek measure, but I must also respect the Rules of Procedure. National MP Snezana Stojanovic Plavsic wants to speak after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20132	Thank you. I'm advertising a 107th violation of the National Assembly's dignity. I was personally injured because it was said that we were giving some money to get on the parliamentary list and get seats. I think that, if you agree with me, it is a complete violation of the Parliament's dignity, because certainly none of the MPs did. What's this about? It is that, faced with arguments that the DS top of the party has enormous wealth, and in the party of the URS none of the officials owns any wealth, tries to switch to something else. How did we steal Serbia if none of us owned anything? How and why did we steal Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20133	Please, the same goes for you. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and you end up in violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20134	I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. I'm explaining why I'm hurt and why I think it's false what the gentleman was saying. This is about another thing. It's about Mr. Gilas's companies controlling 78% of Serbia's advertising space, and that other power owns 24% of the advertising space. So the complete media space in Serbia is covered. Our sources are not, as the gentleman said, "Kurr" and Pink, but the Agency for Business Registers. That's the whole truth. We're not all behind Big Brother. If the gentlemen sitting here allow themselves to be watched by Big Brother, Serbia is not Big Brother. The united regions of Serbia will never allow themselves to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20135	I have to find out that he hasn't been injured by the Rules of Procedure. I understand you're injured as a party. I understand that, and you have the right to do that, but you're giving it back to others. Whether someone is hurt or not depends solely on you, the Messenger. I agree, many think we should finish this tirad once. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, replica. Just remind me of whose exposure. (Borislav Stefanovic from the post: At the presentation of MP Dragan Šormaz. Mr. Stefanovic, you have no right. (Borislav Stefanovic from the city: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I'll give you the right to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, but to be consistent. You know I don't give anyone the right to rephrase any damage to the Rules of Procedure, and neither do you. Now, since you're advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20136	Article 106 was injured on several occasions by several previous speakers because expressions and twisted words were used and what no one on this side said was said. You were supposed to react. Many times lies, lies, in no way proved things. But I understand the situation. I understand that nervousness. I understand someone here is talking about Big Brother who's used to sitting behind Big Brother. But that's Labud's song, gentlemen. You are at the end of your failed political, and by the citizens of Serbia, the economic and financial path. (President: Mr Stefanovic, I took article 106. Please, I don't want to warn anyone, I really want to cooperate, but Article 106 says that "the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted". Now you explain the basis to me? That's what I'm trying to explain. I'm pointing to an injury. The MPs, the names, and representatives of the SNS, Mr Šormaz, Mr Ilic, Mrs Plassic, spoke about everything but the item of the agenda that we are discussing today and presented it through the prism of lies and full lies. You shouldn't have tolerated it, plus the insults that were made. And no one came to you saying that you gave money for a place, specifically. But there are, as people say, the same ones who talk to you, and the fiction that you bring to the expense of a man who isn't here and who can't defend himself. I'm ready with you big and poor people to replace all my assets at any moment. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20137	Time, Mr. Stefanovic. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure because both in the Shormaz case and in the case of Snezana Plassic, I reacted in time. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: you had to warn him. Don’t judge my behavior now. I don't think it's correct. Then I should have told you too. But if that's what you want, we can do it. I'll apply it from now on. I agree, it's the easiest thing for me. Mr. Shormaz, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20138	Mr. President, I have the right to a replica. I was mentioned by name, and I was told I was telling a lie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20139	You have no right. He mentioned you in the sense that you were through a breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20140	It's just that I told the truth through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's not just that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20141	I'm not giving anyone a replica to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I won't give you a replica, either. He has the word Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20142	Dear Chairman, I will conclude this today's statement to the finding that I am very disappointed, since this is about sick citizens of Serbia, sick children, and the debate in parliament was inappropriate for the Serbian parliament. What I was talking about was the fundamental constitutional right of every citizen of ours to be treated. Constitutional law in this Serbia has been violated. Our children, when the Lord asks me – and what are they threatened with – if anyone should transplant the heart, and what do you think he is threatened with? It's important every day. And we argue here this way. I can't figure out how arrogant and one crossing over some very important subjects... We're talking sick kids here. There's money in Serbia's budget. It's not true they're not here. Look at the amendments submitted by Dusan Milisavljevic, so you'll see. I took money from the Ministry of Finance that's unclear, where they're inexplicably spent. Mr. Dinkich, check the amendments I've made. All that money you've put on your ministry I want to point it at the Ministry of Health and point it at the sick kids. Let's spend money on sick kids, to cure kids, not gondolas, not canals, not airplanes, not candy, but sick kids. It's my theme, and that's why you're getting nervous, because you're spending money on Serbia's citizens on nonsense, not on citizens' health.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20143	Mr. Milosavlevich, I will no longer give you the right to speak. He has the word Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20144	Because you're making gondola? What are you talking about? What gondola? Does this government fund any gondola? Where do you see that? Don't talk... (Dusan Milisavljevic, from the place: At the speed. Quicker? Have you seen any figures in the budget for this year that are intended for gondolas, cablers or anything like that? There's no such thing. It wasn't planned. It's a public private partnership. I can explain what that means. This means that a private investor invests money in a gondola, and the state gives him land to set up pillars. If it bothers you and it solves the problem of these sick kids, fine. But don't overdo it. It has nothing to do with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20145	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20146	Good afternoon, honourable chairman, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia. I will return a few months back, namely, at the end of 2012, when we discussed in this House the 2013 budget and when we turned your attention to you several times, very collegiately and politely, that you were unrealistic in planning this budget and that you were planning unreal revenue for the 2013 budget to begin. We're in a situation today, since you didn't react then, that you're reducing your budget by 92.3 billion dinars. It is a failure of an incredible 10.57% and I want an answer to the question whether any finance minister in Europe or in the world is wrong about the incredible 10.57%? Because you were wrong and you disobeyed us when we collegiately drew your attention that you were unrealizing revenues in this budget, today you are reducing the budget in those areas that are strategically important for our economy and for our society, for our country's future, such as science and education. It's a trend that doesn't just affect the last year since you became Minister of Finance and Business. The 2012 budget envisioned 21 billion dinars for education and science. The rebalancing you proposed last year reduced it to 17.7 billion dinars. In the budget for this year, you planned 15 billion dinars to further reduce it by three billion dinars. So, a billion and 800 million for science and the rest in the education position. You said what those savings were made of. You keep telling us that we need to deal with the future, to really criticize you. This is real criticism. So, today, scientists strike and protest because they haven't received a dinar for material costs since the beginning of the year, which is planned in this budget, although insufficient and symbolic that they can function and do their job properly, they don't have a dinar to publish scientific papers and they don't have a dinar to maintain equipment. You're further reducing them. Please ask us to talk about the future and I'm talking about the future right now. There is no more important thing for our country's future than investment in education, knowledge and science. You've reduced it to a minimum and you're bringing science and education to the brink of survival. On the other hand, I don't really know what else we can expect from you, from this catastrophic budget and from this government when you've added to the list of excellent results this government has over the last year a fiasco, a scandal that happened with a small graduation ten days ago. As far as you're concerned, as finance minister and member of this government towards the future of our country, it also proves that education, science and knowledge are at all treated as a cost rather than an investment. It's a very sad fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20147	Thank you. The word has Minister Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20148	If you have listened carefully, I have already told you that Belgium has reduced costs by 800m euros in its budget this year, which is also rebalanced these days. France has also made a huge rebalancing. You can look at the numbers and figure it out exactly. Most countries do rebalancing. It would normally be more money, as I said, for agriculture as well as for education and science that 20 billion did not seek to cover the debts of Vojvodina Development Bank and Agrobank. You can say it doesn't matter and we're just repeating it, but it's a fact. If we had those 20 billion preserved, now that money would go for much more important and better things like education, like science. You're absolutely right when you say science has to get those resources. I don't know, really, we don't participate in funding planning within the entire budget of the Ministry of Education and Science. We at the Ministry of Finance are conducting the budgets of other ministries, but the fact is it's not good to treat the salaries of scientists as a item of goods and services. That's a fact. We've had it in the budget years ago. That's the budget we inherited. I inherited it from the predecessors. Why is that? I don't know. It's possible because of that, I asked the minister, why don't scientists be shown their names and last names? They told me -- because there's a lot of people who get paid as teachers, so they want to get paid on projects, and then there's service contracts, and then they're goods and services. So there's everything and everything. The truth isn't black or white, it's somewhere in between. I would really like to know that now that we have a register on September 30, thanks to changes to the Budgetary System Act, we will finally know exactly how many people there are in the public sector and on what basis they receive profits. We'll know exactly who the scientists are and who they should be. If there are some who want to add more, okay, if they're extra capacity, you should support it. I don't mind that one who is important to Serbia in science earns much more. That should be rewarded, that should be stimulated. Such talents are rare. But if it covers other costs, such as material costs, maintenance costs, cleaning and who knows what, then there's just some stuff to be thrown out there. So the money for science is necessary. Serbia cannot be some great force in science, because we do not have enough resources to explore fundamental sciences, but it is certain that in some areas of fundamental science we can invest more. We've got strong physicists, we've got strong geneticists. We have strong people in the field of biotechnology, but this current situation may also be an introduction to the solution, the records of real scientists, scientists who are really dealing with it, and then not to be treated accountingly as goods and services, which is inherited by the previous finance minister, but to be paid, to be well paid, recorded in the vault, and then to know that we finance it and to support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20149	Thank you. National MP Jovana Mehandzic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20150	Thank you, Minister, for your response. You didn't answer what I asked you, though. I understand that we have, I will repeat that question, and we will re-examine that, extraordinary individuals in all fields of science. The job of the state is to recognize talent and show that knowledge values. So your job as finance minister is to recognize maybe what someone else didn't recognize. So you too have a responsibility in budget planning, not just a resolute minister. You did not answer the question I asked you, which is – how is it that you failed to plan the revenue side of the budget by 10.57%? So I have not disputed the fact that it is necessary, possible or impossible to bring rebalancing and whether it is done by the countries of Europe, the world, etc., it is safe to work. But you didn't answer my question as to how it's possible that you missed your revenue planning by 10.57%. So I understand it's 0.5%, 2%, 3%, but to make that number two digits, I don't get it. So, that certainly points to some of the other qualities that the finance minister should have, and they're not there right now. So the question is, how did you fail to plan the revenue side by 10.57%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20151	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20152	Read the stenograms of what you from your parliamentary group, or your economists, said when we adopted the budget. You said there would be fewer incomes, but none of you mentioned this figure. Just a month ago, your colleague, my former colleague, also the finance minister, was talking about some number of 50 billion. Look at what the IMF was saying, and what the Fiscal Council was saying. I'm not a superhuman, and I don't do all the work at the Ministry of Finance. I do not want to hide behind colleagues who are doing macroeconomic analyses and projections, but if the European Commission audits its estimates and macroeconomic and budgetary developments every three months, Serbia cannot be an exception. It's not important to spot a leak at all. It's important that the time gap be seen, correct and respond, that there be no too much damage from it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20153	Thank you. National MP Jovana Mehandzic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20154	So, you admitted to a mistake that you missed budget planning on the revenue side for a record 10.57%. I just want an answer from you to say, yes, it's missed. What I'm going to ask the congregation services to deliver my stenographic notes is exactly what you asked me to do, to make sure I'm right. We've drawn your attention that you're unreally planning a budget. We don't have to plan your budget. You are obliged to present a real budget to the citizens of Serbia. It's not the opposition's duty to plan for you. It's our job to tell you that you're unreally planning it, to distract you and to say – the revenue side of the budget is unrealistic. You won't make it through the next 2013 budget, but to be so unrealistic today, June 2nd, after six months of budget implementation, that you missed it by 10.57%, it's really not clear to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20155	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20156	It doesn't matter what happens in passing time. It's about how it all ends. We know how it ended the year when someone else planned the budget, with a record deficit. Let's all wait, this year won't last much longer, just six more months. We'll be here when there's a budget for 2014, and then we'll measure what the deficit was this year, and how much it was a year earlier. It's not easy to run public finances. I never said it was an easy job. I'm not even running away from it to admit a mistake. Yeah, I was wrong because the services that did this job gave me this projection. But I don't blame them. I say again, we all make mistakes, but some of us aren't ready to admit it or correct it. There's a big difference between different people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20157	Thank you. We don't want to replicate anymore. That's enough. The minister responded to another of your replicas. Please continue your work. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Marjanović. You've got four minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20158	Thank you. It is regrettable that at the moment when the budget rebalancing is adopted, the entire government is not present and that Mr Dinkic, as finance minister, should also answer questions that are not in his portfolio today, but as my predecessors have already pointed out, the government's policy is a shared responsibility and what I will talk about is precisely what I am talking about in the field of culture. I don't know if the culture minister, Mr. Petkovic, is fighting enough for his portfolio, I would say no, but this does not reduce the responsibility of the government of the Republic of Serbia in relation to this very important and sensitive area, as has been shown by recent protests by artists, scientists, which we have seen on the streets of Belgrade over the past few days. Until the government has a relationship with these resolutions as strategic and developmental areas, this civilizational regression in which we are, or this regression, will not heal a single budget. We don't just talk about money and we don't want you to force us as representatives of the opposition that we don't have enough understanding for the economic crisis we're in right now. We are talking about many other circumstances that show insufficient responsibility and lack of sensitivity for sensitive areas such as the area of culture, and I will give you examples. The laws passed over the last six months or a year, such as the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on the time limits for the settlement of monetary transactions and the Law on compensation for the use of public goods, which your ministry, Mr Dinkic, provided for certain provisions of the Cinematography Act to be deleted. The increase in the budget by 320 million dinars is commendable, but if you delete the provisions of the Cinematography Act and make the failures you made in the previous period, that increase will be a weak comfort. I also want to stress and say, you may not know, it is not in your portfolio, but I am telling you, pay attention if the culture minister does not speak at the government's meetings, that only recently the archaeological site "Vinca" has lost in the narrow election, in the contest, to receive very significant funds for the restoration of this important archaeological site, because it does not occupy the advice for "Vinca" which is the interresor advice made by many ministries, representatives of ministries from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that no media strategy has been adopted that depends on whether Serbia will sign a contract for two programmes -- the Creative Europe and Media Programme, from which it is possible to withdraw millions of euros for our artists, for our cinematography, etc. So, while you are, truth be told, adding and increasing by one small percentage of the culture budget, due to the inability of the Ministry of Culture and the incompetence of the Government, we are losing a lot more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20159	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Lucic. You've got half a minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20160	Now that I've only got half a minute, that's about my colleagues from the Parliament club being very active, and that's normal, that's the job of the opposition, and that's no reason for the government to get angry. I'll just say one thing. It's a good thing for the first time that the finance minister respects the opinion of the Fiscal Council, his entire exposé was a paraphrases of the dog document. And it's not good for the first Deputy Prime Minister to disqualify this body politically. (President: Time. () What is not good for each other? Which is the job of the Fiscal Council to take care of public debt, and the government has to have politics. She's not behind this rebalance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20161	The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20162	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope after this discussion we will enter a slightly more peaceful course of conversation and controversy. The draft budget rebalancing is part of comprehensive economic reforms that will be implemented simultaneously, which mean under number 1) stabilising the state budget, under number 2) public sector reform and under number 3) improving the business climate. The adoption of amendments to the Budgetary System Act creates a basis for additional savings and better control of money spending through the introduction of a central register of public sector employees. The wording of the rebalancing shows that the biggest savings will be achieved by reducing capital investments and cutting subsidies to the economy and agriculture. The institutions of culture and police have found themselves on a sharp fiscal cut, and similar projects of irrigation and travel costs have passed. At the very top of the biggest savings, the cabinet of Deputy Prime Minister Dr Jovan Krkobic, with 21 million, by the way, was the smallest cabinet budget, was reduced to 16.5 million dinars. The state must also additionally set aside 12.4 billion dinars, 6.9 billion dinars for interest on the basis of activated guarantees, while previously it was calculated that this cost would not exceed 3.65 billion. This means that enterprises, i.e. entities guaranteed by the State for the loans they had taken, are doing worse than expected. This is very important. I have a question here for the minister, so I'd just like him to listen to me, if that's okay. Will your ministry, i.e. the government, allow your loans to local self-government for new investments through consent? Lately, it's been a tendency for the local self-government to be in charge and to increase this percentage. I think the substance from which loans are being returned, especially foreign loans, is related to the state. We're going to cancel out these savings that we're counting on to cut the budget gap. I'd like the minister, if possible, to answer this question tonight. The rebalance reduces subsidies from 91.7 billion to 83.8 billion dinars, with the biggest burden bringing subsidies to the economy, a reduction of 3.3 billion, from 18.3 billion to 15 billion. The subsidies for agriculture will fall by the same amount, from 41 billion to 37.7 billion dinars. The National Employment Service gets less money – 10.1 billion instead of 13.7 billion. Also, the PIO fund remains with only 16.5 billion, although the institution should replace the loss with recent tax changes. The increase from 1.6 billion to 5.25 billion dinars in the Transition Fund will resolve the working-legal status of employees who will be found to be the surplus in companies whose final status is being resolved as well as the payment of severance payments to employees who will be fired when the government starts to put out numerous losers who are currently in bankruptcy. The fact that these funds are being allocated right now suggests that they could come within months. I have to say here it's 179 companies in restructuring with 54,000 workers. In today's discussions, the minister explained a lot and it's quite clear now, but it remains unclear, Minister, just to tell us – how are we going to reduce bankruptcy by 10 years, which doesn't match the state or the workers, to reduce it and to at least last one year, or to one year? Is there any possibility, is there any mechanism for this country to resolve these issues? So, those who can sell or can find investors, strategic partners, get into that business, and those who go bankrupt, to get it done as soon as possible. It will be good and positive for both workers and the state. Most of the savings come to a reduction in capital investments, as much as 13.1 billion dinars. He reduced his capital investment by two-thirds. The cost of tourist infrastructure is practically deleted and reduced – from 1.4 billion to 215 million dinars. Half the watering funds – from 500 million to 250 million – have been cut in half. These funds were usually small. I hope these undrawn loans will replace and secure the funds and give this more importance. Other ministries also joined the austerity process. When it comes to capital investments, the Ministry of Transport has reduced the budget by two billion and 65 million dinars, instead of three billion and 450 million dinars, threatening to endanger the already-started section of the Ub-Lajkovac road to the magistrate, i.e. Corridor 10 Belgrade-South Adriatic. Only half of the planned 2.23 billion dinars will be allocated for this now. The minister explained the same thing here, and I think this is much clearer. This is very important because of the people who listen, or listen to our programme, that by withdrawing from the approved loans, certain funds will be replaced, where funds are downloaded, especially when capital investments are important, and this Corridor 11 for Serbia is, especially for Western Serbia, a window into the world. It is realistic to expect to keep the budget deficit at a rebalanced level by the end of the year, and it is possible to be 20 billion lower if we do household business. Finance is the most sensitive part of the budget at all, especially when the time of the crisis is, and therefore such a debate with the position, I'm sorry that they haven't even listened to us any further than they have come out, it's very important that we understand this positively and that their efforts are convincing, only that we're on a good path to resolve, that they will no longer be in the Ministry, from empty to hollow. First we'll try to shut down the holes, then we'll fill the budget properly and by 2015 we'll bring the budget that we don't have this many holes in the budget and we'll provide the people with normal functioning of the state. A PUPS parliamentary group -- United pensioners of Serbia -- will vote for this rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20163	Thank you. Srjan Shain, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20164	Just one sentence. A member of 107 was injured by the fact that the first Deputy Prime Minister did not respect the Fiscal Council as a government body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20165	I didn't really understand it that way, but good. Thank you. Minister Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20166	You asked me a few questions, so let me answer you. Before I realized that these gentlemen who were this bile and aggressive the moment they finished what they had to say, they left. They don't want to listen to their colleagues. I mean Borko Stefanovic, Bozo Djelic and everyone else. They only left Srdjan Milivojevic here in the benches. That's what, in some ways, led them to this situation. They just want to listen to themselves. She's got this song when we're already rocking, "I only love myself." It was their style, that autism actually cost them. You have to listen to others. Not when you're done, it's not cultural, when they're talking about culture, when you finish your exposure, you run away, and you won't listen to your colleagues.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20167	Thank you. Mr. Milivoevich, it is that you are mentioned, but only as someone who sits.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20168	The answer to this question. The Public Debt Act defines how local self-government can be in charge. They cannot do so by automation, but they must ask the Public Debt Administration for consent, depending on what incomes were during the previous period are approved or not approved. It also looks at the level of total responsibility of a particular local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20169	Thank you. Bozidar Djelic, a replica on behalf of the Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20170	The Democratic Party is here. Don't be afraid of anything. There we are. Not only are we here, but that's what we do. We sum up after our show what we did and I'm coming to tell you one thing, which is that we checked, for example, that's what I did now, that there's no Ministry of Finance, there's no government that's missed the budget in the world like this. There isn't. I checked the IMF tables, including the fact that this minister does not respect international accounting, so he needs to put some things into the budget, and that's why the difference between the assessment we have today, which is supposed to be voted on and what's an international standard of about 2% of GDP, to the fact that when it comes to budget failure, you have some fiscal forms like corporate tax. It wasn't hard. That's what we talked about in October, November of last year, to invite a few companies that are big in contributing to that tax and to see what their age looks like. To see that, as we now see, you've missed that fiscal form by about 40%. You may find all this very fun, but the fact today for 11 vaccines for children does not have a vaccine for nine of them, that there are seven stents in Užica, that a large number of drugs on the positive list are not available and the fact is, as my colleague Milisavljevic said, that today to treat the most severe disease, which is cancer, there is not enough apparatus, nor enough consumable material. It's funny to the minister. He's laughing. Look. Focus on that man. He finds it funny that people today who have cancer, I don't want anyone, they don't have reangens. If that's funny to you, it's just not funny to us in the DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20171	Time. Thank you, Mr. Djelic. It's been two minutes and nine seconds. Mr. Milivoevich, you have no basis for replication. The fact that Mr. Secretary said you were sitting in a bench isn't the basis for a replica. The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20172	It's not funny what you were saying, it's that you used to have the nickname of God Derikog, and now the Speed Gonzales.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20173	Slobodan Jeremic, a replica of the minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20174	Mr. Minister, you answered my first question. I wanted you to explain to me that if the old government gave guarantees at some good time, do these guarantees apply now and will they go through the ministry again? That's the first one. You didn't answer my second question, so I'd like to hear back from you. If it goes under the bankruptcy of the company, could a bankruptcy procedure not last for 10 years, could it take a year? This is very important for both the state and the workers and the companies that come into that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20175	Srdjan Milivojevic has given up his injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Minister Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20176	You're right about bankruptcy proceedings, they're really slow to carry out. The only thing we can do is pass a regulation on the government to reduce the proportional reward to bankruptcy managers in proportion to the length of the proceedings. If the procedure takes longer, they'll have a smaller reward. The more efficient they are, the faster it depends on them the amount of compensation they are paid. Second, to replace those who delay actions because who knows what interests they have. Often unfortunately, the interest of the bankruptcy manager is not to end an efficient bankruptcy process, but rather to bring about creditors, but to receive some compensation for the longer time, and to run the company, and they often represent the interests of a variety of stakeholders who are in the interest of not ending the process. The only way to do that is to turn on stronger control, and it's a good thing that you've noticed that, and we're going to try to do something to speed it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20177	Bozidar Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20178	If I were quick, it would be assessed by the citizens, and as far as this budget is concerned, we hear again in this task debate. We find it interesting every time we see a form. Then we ask for a source and we get to one party and one man. What's the name of the minister who introduced the award for these bankruptcy managers? I think he's sitting in these benches right now. What is the name of the minister who has led to the need to introduce 1.5 billion additional funds for recycling now? The same finance minister sitting in this bench last year, and we talked about it, abolished his own income, and didn't predict money for already agreed things, contracts, and when he saw the lawsuits coming and that significant pens would be paid, then he better found it appropriate to take an extra space of 1.5 billion dinars. It's called amateurism. I'm proud of my nickname and the professionalism that he characterises and where I'm lucky I had the same approach to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20179	National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20180	Dear Ministers, respected chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, today when we talk, or yesterday about budget rebalancing and amendments to the Law on the Budget System cannot say that this is the happiest situation in which Serbia is located. But what I can say when we talk about responsibility is a responsible approach to the problem. If someone sees and assesses in May that filling the budget does not go with the dynamics they were counting on, and takes measures immediately after half a year, I believe that this is a responsible approach, and thus this government and this ministry will have my support, as long as they try to find answers in a quick and efficient way during the crisis. Of course, I want Serbia in which we have strong institutions, which are visibly strengthening the state, to bring a more balanced economic benefit to society in general. In order to improve the legal and institutional and business environment, the government, the public, civil and private sectors, needs a permanent conversation. One of those conversations was conducted when this budget rebalance was made. I can't help but mention today that a recent survey of German companies operating in Serbia has been conducted. There's about 350 of them and they hire about 25,000 people. What they pointed out was just creating a business environment. It's not something that's been a problem in Serbia since yesterday, but it's something this government is dealing with. If someone decides to improve the legal system, which is what one of the problems is, if someone decides to fight corruption, if someone decides to create a legal state, then the government deserves the support of each of us. What is interesting through that poll is the fact that 88% of these companies would be re-defined to invest in Serbia. Of course, I want Serbia where the development of a national economy is based on stable dinar and low inflation, stimulating taxes and responsible public finances, free competition without monopolies, modernising overall road, municipal and telecommunications infrastructure, systematic strengthening of domestic entrepreneurs, establishing strong co-operation between trade unions, government and employers. This is something written in the United Regions of Serbia programme. This is something that this government is conducting, and that is why it is necessary to give it a chance to do this all the way. Maintaining a balanced budget is an effort that is making, both the government and parliament, and the response to the current situation, the reaction in time and very variable conditions is precisely this rebalance. What I would certainly like to commend is the register of employees, elected, appointed and engaged persons in the public sector. Looking at the situation that all people can think of, I have an example in my community. Imagine when you have a public company that employs 36 employees, and then employs another 28 employees through a student cooperative. I don't want to talk about who's in charge of such a public enterprise and what kind of math is being conducted and what are the results at the end of the year? If this will help my citizens and fellow citizens to know who does everything, on which basis and for what amount of money and how much it costs, then this law on amendments and additions to the Budgetary System Act deserves full support. Of course there are positive things. If we compare the first six months last year and this year and see that the budget deficit is 12% lower than last year, then I think this government deserves to be given a hand and that the opportunity to finish the job it started. When we talk about amendments to the Budgetary System Act, the evaluation of capital projects and the introduction of the very content and application of the further regulation that will be arranged is something that I find extremely good. In addition, I can't help but mention measures to increase revenue collection and zero tolerance to financial indiscipline and fight black and gray economies. That's what we talked about in the previous period. You know, it's very painful when your fellow citizens ask you, and why I, who pays taxes, contributes, I have a reported shop, I get a regular inspection, I end up in a more unfavourable position than the one that carries his tools in his pocket. This is exactly the answer I'll be proud to point out. We come to the fact that the tax administration will work to ensure that everything that is not in legal flows is introduced, but not under some threat and coercion, but by creating a partner relationship, where there is a period that will be given to everyone to introduce into legal flows. No one can convince me that there are no measures that can support it. National Employment Service, as well as local levels, implement measures that encourage both new employment and self-employment, as well as other measures that can be given from a local level, and encourage exactly what I was talking about – self-employment. I think that really only through one partner relationship and by identifying as many people on the ground as possible, by giving as much ingenuity as possible to reduce this gray and black market. Of course, to control those employers who don't report their employees, that's what can't be the activity of just one ministry. It is well said that co-ordinated activity of all control bodies, especially co-operation with the MUP, is a prerequisite for effective control of illegal traffic. What I want to finally praise is exactly the fact that the preconditions, or political will, have finally come to an end, that a job that has been going on for ten years. I wouldn't just mention now how much money this country is investing in. According to estimates, some 750m euros in direct and indirect subsidies for restructure companies were spent in 2012. What we all need is one real picture of Serbia. So there's no need here to tell these people about the companies they're in, so let's just call, work, these businesses and know what it's like every day. And also, this government has decided to end this story, that we definitely know what it is that this country is doing, doing business, having a future, what it is is that we keep our labour force unsecured, and what it is that some more money or other opportunities for these people to just get a job, but also what is the number of people who retire and for that to be allocated funds. I don't think there's any reason for us to caricate anything here. They know how people live. We don't need to tell them how hard it is for them. Unlike perhaps the previous period, in this period we have a government that is aware that citizens do not live well. We have one government that is willing to help and one company located in one of the most underdeveloped municipalities is not in restructuring, but it employs 1,360 people. Can you imagine what it means for that municipality, which has an unemployment rate of 40%, when this government decides to give it a hand. That company is located in my municipality. I'm very aware of the position of every employee in the company, but they got a given hand and that's what's most important and it's a clear signal that this government and the Ministry of Finance and Business are equally important to each part of Serbia and therefore this package of laws will have my full support.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20181	The word has the People's MP Radmilo Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20182	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for preparing for the budget review, I have carefully looked at all the items, all the savings, however, my colleagues said a lot yesterday and today, so that it would be repeated, given the time left for my parliamentary group, we should give in and my colleagues say something else. I'd like to make some findings, some suggestions, some questions. Before that, I would mention that what I see as a new MP for Parliament, which is somehow always an inflation of criticism, a deflation of ideas, or the absence of constructive discussions. I hope we'll be more constructive in the future, and less critical, but of course we'll criticise when we need to. The slight shift in deficit cuts is a major success, as in addition to ambitious budget planning for 2013 and poor political moves in the country's economic policy in previous governments, and in terms of poor financial arrangements, concrete borrowings and disastrously managed finances, it is now a miracle with reduced incomes and rising expenditures that is simply very difficult to implement. The previous governments were supposed to save money when anything was saved. Let me remind you, privatisation in one period, cement, tobacco industry, Mobtel, of all the healthy sectors that we had, brought huge privatisation revenues, and that then governments thought a little bit about the future, could have saved that something. I would now point out the good side of this rebalancing, which is: restrictions on public spending, structural reform of the system, stabilisation of the state budget, public sector reform that involves and the creation of a single register of employees in public enterprises, so for the first time we will see what real wages are, what are real issues in the public sector and salary supplements, etc., and the improvement of the business climate. I also welcome the action plan to end the restructuring of former social enterprises. Although, it seems to me that we have a serious job ahead of us to do it the best way. The key issue for the government, and especially for the Ministry of Finance in the coming period, is how to increase revenues? It's mine to say not through new tax charges, not an increase in tax rates, but a tax coverage. I happen to have heard that, for example, in Kaludierica, and perhaps the minister knows better, so let me be corrected by 80% of households not in the tax system. It's just one example, maybe it's bad information, but let the minister correct me. Also, by forsaking a public private partnership model, the minister mentioned earlier, we invest too little energy in that part and I feel that education is also needed, especially in local self-governments, and in what way we apply this model, because indeed local self-government in one part, if we look at agricultural production, that land, or something owned by the municipality, and investors are a complete investment cycle and we hire new people. Also, from my local government from Pirot, where I come from, a memo came to me yesterday to ask the competent ministries that the project that was submitted for the construction of a water network in a village, the village of Pirot, which has been having a water supply problem for 10 years, so I ask the competent ministry to see if there are certain resources that we can invest, because real water supply is something that life is dried up. They also asked for help in revitalising the Pirot-Književec road. It's part of the road facing the Old Mountain, and if we want new hotels and tourism development tomorrow, the revitalisation of that road route is really important, not only for the pyrotic, bookkeeping, zaječarska region, but for the whole of Serbia. I would take the opportunity to point out that also the roadways of Piroth-Babusnica, Babusnica-Bela Palanka are more roads where only a roadblock can pass, not a normal car. How are we going to develop and reform things if we don't have the basics, and these are the paths? I also appeal to the Ministry of Finance, since I think it is the most in their jurisdiction, to encourage local self-government to broadcast ammunition bonds, where money would be provided for some infrastructure projects, for some projects of capital importance for certain local self-governments. Also, something that cancer wounds our economy, it's local heat. The Pirot example is that local heat that is a chronic loser on the mahout, so each year by subsidising the municipality's budget covers the losses, but also the Minister of Energy, two, three months ago in Pirot, made those people aware, urging them to look at new technologies, how, in which to redecorate existing plants. There's so much talk about power plants, bio-mass energy, and it would be good to provide funds through the broadcasting of ammunition bonds, and to end such facilities, which would also mean savings, and the price of heating would be incomparably cheaper. I'd point out another big problem, everyone talked about it, but it's good to point out one more time, and that's suppressing the gray economy, first of all, through a serious reform of the tax administration. We've talked more than once, the part that's in the gray economy, some say it's this much percent, so much. I also gave Minister Dinkic, before the adoption of the 2013 budget, from the "Tax Tribune" one piece of information that only 40% of traffic is carried out in legal flows. I appeal to the D.A. to get this job started as soon as possible and bring it to an end. As for the SNS parliamentary group, we're going to support this budget rebalance anyway, because it's still good in time to do some things, cut off some expenses, so we don't go further into the dubiosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20183	Thank you. National MP Momo Colaković, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20184	Dear Vice-Presidents, working presidency, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs, as well as everyone else who spoke today, I also think we are in a very complex and difficult situation, financial and economic, and I would particularly say to the social one, but I am also convinced that if we unite all physical and mental forces, we can overcome the crisis. In this regard, I call upon everyone to ensure unity in our efforts, to overcome this crisis. I welcome Mr. Minister's statement that this unity has been achieved in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I ask once again that they pay particular attention to the social dialogue with the businessmen and, in particular, to the trade unions. Our parliamentary group, unfortunately the oldest and the youngest in parliament, will support these laws, in particular the Budget Rebalancing Act and, in particular, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on PIO. Why are we doing this? There's a lot of reasons. I'll just give you three reasons. I won't burden myself with the data given the time. The first reason is because proper and practical priorities have been identified in eliminating the crisis we are in. The first thing is that it will start solving business and especially production problems and in this respect facilitate all other reforms announced in relation to this in the last year. First of all, we insist that the recovery of economic operators should be the first place, that a basis be created for the employment of a larger number of workers and so on. The second reason is that the savings come from state institutions, authorities, agencies, etc. That's a priority for us. I think the burden of the whole crisis and most of it should be borne by the state right now. I mean not only the Republic, the municipalities, the cities, the provinces, but everyone else who participates in spending the money of the people. The third reason we think we should support the budget, which is why the burden of the measure doesn't shift to the poorest. In this regard, we particularly acknowledge the government, that there is no freezing of wages and pensions. I think it's very important and important. It can't be spared on those who don't, on those who have the lowest pensions, who have the lowest wages or social benefits. We think we should also keep in mind, when it comes to criticising pension and disability insurance reform, which I can't talk about for long, that in the last 10 years, since 2000, reforms or parts of pension and disability insurance have been carried out six times. All took part in the reform, all parliamentary parties represented in this assembly of parliament. It can't be said that there was no reform and that nothing was done. Such criticism by some opposition and some MPs from the government cannot be accepted. I'm not going to mention it, we have that data, but I'm saying that this pensioner system, where 1,709,225 pensioners, as many as there are on today, those who later retired less, those who have left earlier, have suffered the greatest burden of the crisis that has been in the last 10 years. That should be in mind. That's why I think the government is right that it didn't get in the way of freezing pensions. The same applies when it comes to the Fiscal Council's proposal to introduce a solid tax on those pensioners who are over 25,000 and on salaries above 40,000. Is that possible in this situation to accept? We can't support that. Well, 65 or 70% of pensioners support their families, those who are unemployed, their children and their grandchildren. This is our relationship with the amendments to the Budget Law, i.e. the rebalancing and relation to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In the end, let me say something about the criticisms that were here. I'm sorry there aren't any MPs who sent it. It is said that DRI should enter the PIO Fund, as they say, in a serious way. Is there an unserious way where DRI got in? They're in the Fund, and if there's an irregularity, and it's said here that there's an irregularity and that's the biggest choice of corruption in the country, who can accept it? If the Fund works in the best possible way, if the Fund's efficiency has been raised with about 60%, since 2008, at close to 90%, how can that be said? (President: Time. Please, two more sentences. Also today, one MP told the Deputy Prime Minister that he was not at the session today. Well, it's not because it can't for objective reasons. Second, that he was not present at any session of parliament. Well, he's the only man who's been sitting here the whole time when they were pension and disability insurance laws and when it was five o'clock in the morning twice. It is reckless and I personally think that such things should be condemned by the entire parliament. I thank you for your attention, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20185	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20186	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, we have a document before us yesterday and today that proves responsibility and willingness to solve problems, not to push under the carpet. In the debate, for God's sakes, we heard demagogies, theaters in front of TV cameras, as well as collecting cheap points on other people's torture. Unfortunately, this kind of policy doesn't have its foothold anymore. It was shown by the Kovin elections, where the policy received only nine percent of its support. They showed this election in Zajecar, where that policy gets only three percent and hasn't even crossed the censorship. This difficult time requires a different and more responsible policy. The government bravely and honestly went to the public and gave a real picture. Were we supposed to keep quiet and create a fake picture that everything was fine, spend it without cover, as it was done in the previous period? Were we supposed to let some year's notices, doctors, police officers and soldiers run out of pay, and pensioners without pensions? Should we have allowed the whole of Serbia to run out of investments? No, the government decided to deal with the problem. She offered one responsible solution, offered this rebalancing. Savings are necessary at all levels of government. Of course, it's a good balance. It must not be spared on the poorest, but we must not neglect investment either. Today, we heard data on export growth, GDP growth and unemployment. It's all encouraging, but it's not nearly enough. There's a lot more to be done. Of course, financial discipline and tax collection must be further increased, and the minister must have absolute support and free hands. Because every unsuspecting fiscal account doesn't mean that the state has been cheated. Each one of these unsecured fiscal accounts means less money for education. Every outstanding fiscal account means less money for health care, for new roads, for investment. So, the citizens were cheated, and in the debates we heard that we just needed more money for both investment and for education and health care. Absolute support must have a tax charge announced to those with assets greater than 350 million dinars. Everyone has to pay taxes, but the richest must be first in line and there must be no compromise. Of course, there is also a need for serious work to combat the gray economy. I deeply appreciate anyone who has a private job in Serbia today and thus earns money for himself and his family. What the people say - one should take off a hat, but it must not have unfair competition and any grey economy must be severely sanctioned. We must also have courage when it comes to enterprises in restructuring and public enterprises. We've heard about how many companies in restructuring money relations. That money should be directed towards creating real jobs. What about public enterprises? Let's all admit, once upon a time, that they were shelters for hiring party personnel, that they were inefficient, that the price must ultimately be paid by citizens. I'll give you an example of Kovina, a small municipality, where last year, a 24 million subsidy was granted to a public utility company. I'm not saying that the last four years have increased the number of employees by a third. Imagine that 24 million each year were set aside to build some street, some infirmary, to start building kindergartens. That's how we'd hire a construction industry that's collapsed. Now multiply those 24 million by the number of municipalities in Serbia, then at the province level, at the level of the Republic. It's a huge amount of money that, slightly said, can be much smarter and more useful spent. On the other hand, what must be constantly taken care of? It's the creation of a favourable investment climate. We must create such conditions where we will attract investors who will come to Serbia, build factories and hire our people. Many successful companies are already operating in Serbia, and they carry an increase in exports. Of course it's a good idea to connect with our small and medium-sized enterprises. We have to invest in infrastructure, in that road infrastructure, in the industrial zone, in the tourist infrastructure. We have seen how much investment in Kopalnik, Zlatibor, the Old Mountain has contributed to the development of these parts. We allowed these people to live fairly there from their work, to stay where they were born. That's why I'm really surprised by the ominous comments of some MPs. Someone doesn't care, really, about even regional development. Do we just have to iron sidewalks across big cities without people inland having anything to live on? We also need changes in laws that will help improve the investment climate. I sincerely hope that soon there will be a new law on work, a new law on planning and construction, because it is unacceptable for serious investors to spend months here to get a building permit. Of course, all these problems can't be solved with a magic wand and, of course, no one's a magician, but it's important that we deal with problems. We must not stop until every citizen in Serbia has a chance to get a job and live decently on his salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20187	Thank you. National MP Dragan Nikolic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20188	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister Dinkic, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia. Mr Dinkic, today you were a witness and you had to listen and endure a lot of unprincipled criticism, a lot of something about the rebalancing of this budget of the Republic of Serbia, as if you brought it yourself, as if you had delivered it before this National Assembly. The budget rebalance was adopted at a meeting or session of the Republic government. Of course, behind this budget rebalancing is the complete government of the Republic of Serbia, and I see you as a personification of the Republic government. In that sense, I thank you for your patience, for your serious answers. Sometimes I'm very surprised how you get so much appreciation for some people who have indeed strayed into this parliament, who, when they were responsible, have forgotten the responsibility, which when they were filling their pockets from that budget, they forgot they were doing it. Today, all of us here have been attending various stories, lamentations, predicting the darkest possible scenarios, but we've already gotten used to it, it's been going on for a year. Whenever there was a theme that was painful for the previous regime where the headquarters was DS, we always got the worst possible scenario. At the moment when we chose governor NBS, inflation and dinar collapse and all the worst that could have happened, and it didn't happen. The dinar was 120 then compared to the euro, and now it's much cheaper. But those who have destroyed, those who have participated in cataclysm and cataclysms in Serbia's economy are now the loudst and talk all day long and understand what it would be worth, but you know how, late the mind is not smart. It's easy to be a general after the battle and what they were saying today was easy and they could, and they wanted to, and they had, to apply for the last 13 years. Since they didn't, we're forced to do that rebalancing today. Of course, in the voting day, the SNS will vote for this rebalancing, of course, with a number of amendments we have made, all in order to improve this rebalancing, so that it can be more bearable to the citizens of Serbia. Also, I was very comfortable when you said that in the preparation of this rebalancing budget you consulted both the professional public and the unions and the citizens and professional associations and businessmen and that you simply came into the situation to give, by force of opportunity, even at times reluctantly, this kind of budget rebalancing, since the situation is what it is. When we adopted the budget in November 2012, we didn't know the depth of the crisis, we didn't know the consequences that would reach us because we were moving with one idea that it wasn't possible for someone to love Serbia so much, it's not possible that someone had ripped off all possible funds, it's not possible that someone had ruined the economy to that extent that it won't be able to fill the budget for the next six months or a year enough and to the extent that you predicted it. It was also found that you were wrong and that the revenue side was not filled by 10.57%, as if you were a wizard, as if you were a psychic. Those who are the most responsible, to whom all this is funny, because they were on their aunts' couch when they came to Serbia and now they're full of oceans of ships, of course it's funny to them. But Serbian citizens are not funny and not funny to the citizens of Zemun. It is not funny for citizens especially Zaječar who voted for this policy by receiving 3.5% of the votes. If a group of citizens had been created there, they would have received at least 5% of the votes, they would have crossed the censorship, but that is the result of a policy that was led in Serbia and where everything as a boomerang is returning because Serbian citizens simply know and it is difficult to deceive them. All of these lamentations today and even including some medical condition, which is why, of course, we're all very affected as parents and we're not glad, even if it was very difficult for all of us, but if you're using such things in politics, you won't be long, the people will remember it, and they'll punish you in the next election even worse than they've done before. The philosophy of the previous government was – take credit, spend it, and take credit again and spend it again. It also looks forward to having included other measures in the rebalance, except for the 2013 budget rebalances, so we will support all of this. All of this represents only one part of trying to save the economy and economy. It is our desire to absolutely increase the number of employees. Also, there is great joy that a stagnation was made which was a trend of growth from 2008 to 2012 in unemployment, where it reached 25.5% in 2012, and now it is 24.1%. I'm not saying it's something to make us happy. It's a huge number, it's worrying, but everything we're doing, and what we're talking about today and what we're going to decide is going to go down to this number and this percent. It is also very much looking forward to the growth of GDP, as you said, in the first quarter of 2.2%, and that is what gives some hope, giving a wish for everyone here with you and all the government representatives, counting here and the prime minister, counting on the first vice-president of Mr. Alexander Vukic, whom they had to mention today in some negative context, and worst of all why he's not here. Those questions were shiny, and I don't know what they'd ask him. They would probably ask him if the fight against crime and corruption had been stopped, which would probably make many of them happy, which would be very happy if that could happen. Then we talked here even about some downed charges. No charges have been dropped, charges have been returned to dorado. What will be certain, if there are still cheeks and professional ethics, the prosecutor working on the job, the indictment will be corrected, completed in the cases the court pointed out and raised in due course. We are also here to discuss the abolition of the immunity of the man we were talking about today, to listen to the same stories, to the same cries and to the moaning of the same people that it was a political reckoning, so they probably wanted to ask Mr. Vukic. But here, I can answer for him, even though I'm not his lawyer. The fight against crime and corruption must continue, and it will continue, because all those who have engrossed this budget back in years, who have been dragging their hands into the pockets of Serbian citizens, have to answer for this, must be deprived of freedom, to be punished for proper legal penalties. Will it succeed in doing so by judges who have been elected in the previous period, judges and prosecutors who have been left by the previous regime, I do not know, but I see that there is a certain courage, there are certain winds, there is a much cleaner situation in the judiciary, which, of course, we have contributed to, one atmosphere that releases all these people who are professionally engaged in business to do as the law says, and we will insist on that. What is very important, in the next period you need to improve tax collection and tax discipline. I think it would be very bad to raise the tax rate. That would be counterproductive, but also very important. Also, to reduce subsidies or to eliminate all those who are like a bottomless bag, where it is given for years, and today you said that 750m euros each year are given to certain losers and certain companies and all those companies will either go bankrupt or privatised, because they are too much weight for the Republic of Serbia's budget and I think that once, sooner or later, we have to end it. Here you show one courage, one determination that the previous governments did not have, to deal with the problems that really exist, to really solve them, to look into these problems and to see what you saw and to recognize one day solve them. We can't leave it to our children or the next government, although I know we'll be in the next government and in the next few. But that's why we want to solve a lot of problems in this government, so we have a lot less to do next. It's a complete logic - you can't spend more than you earn. All this leads to bankruptcy and anyone who is a smart and good host will cut the costs of both their wife and their children and say that there is no inflow, that there is no profit and that only what is earned can be spent. Only one who is not smart, who is not a host, goes and borrows from the neighbor, takes credit, takes money, spends it, and when one day he comes to collect, then he runs off by pushing his head into the sand and talking about how it could and how it was smarter to do something like this. Today we have listened to such an Noah who pushed his head into the sand and tells you what was to be done, and the main fault is on them and the consequences of this rebalancing is what was done several years ago, that is, before the formation of this government. We need to raise that budget deficit to 4.7% of GDP, we need to save 36 billion, whether or not they want to, that's legality. I'm glad some areas and some ministries got a bigger amount of cake, which I mean the Ministry of Culture, which is very much for the praise of Serbia's corridors, the Office for Co-operation with civil society, and I think it's very important for those areas. In the end, Mr. Minister, I want to ask you two questions. One thing is about filling that budget and two companies, and the other is peaceful and is about emptying the budget, or one application. Since I come from Vranj, and since we have invested a lot of energy, money, seriousness and all the papers in the Bunusevic industrial zone, I know that you know that and that you are very well aware of it, we have done everything possible to get the Geoks and Ditra companies first, and then we expect some more firms to come, so it is my question – will you be able to confirm here, or me and the citizens of Serbia and Vranja, that these two companies will come to Vranje in July and August of the month? Another question, or request, on behalf of all people living in Vranj, or in the Pcinj County. Unfortunately, on this day, a year ago, the Vranj theater burned to the ground. We as a local self-government, together with our coalition partners, have done a lot to complete all the projects, prepare them, and on July 17th, we will have complete documentation. My request is, and I've given it through one amendment, is it possible to put an item into this budget rebalance that some 25 million dinars can be helped by local self-government, given that we in one poor environment have managed to raise 40 million and we need another financial injection to be able to finish all this? I expect an answer from you, if you can do it now. Finally, we will also support the voting day our parliamentary group will vote in favour of the 2013 budget rebalancing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20189	Minister Dinkic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20190	Thank you first for this truly sincere support and understanding of the situation in which the Government is located. Let me answer these two questions first. We together with your city, as you know, have invested funds to bring this area to its purpose and to build infrastructure, but above all to settle land. Because the point is, first of all, we need to level the land, and hopefully these works are going well. Both the Gooks and the Dithra planned to start building their factories this summer and we should follow these land-level work together. They're gonna start doing it this summer and we're hoping that we'll be in good health to go open it and hopefully it'll be next year. As for the theatre, as we helped the contemporary theatre in Leskovec, we certainly want to help the theatre in Vranj. Every municipality, every city that wants to help culture, and especially when it comes to this kind of investment, will have the support of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We'll secure from the current budget reserves of these millions of dinars, here, that's what I now publicly confirm to you. I want to take advantage of the opportunity when you mentioned Zajchar to say in a way what's the big difference. Zajcar is in some way a paradigm of relations in the current government and relations in the previous government. You may not know it, but I'll tell you now. In a way, I was expelled from the previous government by being accused by one of this group of MPs that I allegedly took "Gorenje" from Valjev to Zajecar. Maybe some of them forgot, maybe they didn't. I don't know how many years. Instead of commending them then for the effort to build a company such as "Gorenje", which has over one billion euros in annual traffic and belongs to the largest companies in Europe, to convince them to build a factory not only in Valjevo, not only in Pazova, but on the other end of Serbia, in Zajecar, in eastern Serbia, where many people went because there was no work and there were no investments in the previous period, while at the same time expanding capacity in Valjevo, therefore, to build both in Valjevo and in Pazova and Zajecar simultaneously on three completely different ends of the country. It came out of some vanity, I don't want to say jealousy, I don't believe in such things that someone can be jealous, because if you're helping the West, the Vojvodina, the East, I don't see what jealousy is. The attack started, and the maltenes followed, not long after, the cast-off, the gold letters were written in what they said earlier in this debate from the government. Here's why this is a paradigm. That'll show up next week. Next week, we will have two beautiful events in Serbia and where we are lucky to have them as many as possible by the end of this year and in the next period, and I hope and do our best to be them. You know for a fact that both your party and my party, that we were rivals in the Zajecar elections. You got 39% support for the citizens, the URS 35%. You said it yourself, Democrats 3.2%. You gave them a little more, not 3.5% but 3.2%, and the DSS had 3.5% with the Two. Which is where the difference between Zaječar today and Zaječar is politically a few years ago. Mr. Vukic and I will attend the signing of the contract for the construction of the modernized factory "Grenja" in Zajecar next week, which will produce 450 thousand washing machines annually. So, not that there's no conflict, but politics is one thing, and citizens are the other. The citizens and you promised to help create new jobs. And there is no reason to share in this, but we should work together in both Zajecar and Vranj and in all other Serbian cities. At the same time a day later will be opened and an expanded plant "Grenja" in Valjevo. All that was going on three years ago, here next week is going to sort of come out on its own. I simply want to thank you for this correctness, because only in Serbia can community bring results. And all the other, of course, MPs who have discussed here and colleagues who have talked about this community about the style that we need, I really thank everyone and I am taking this opportunity, I mentioned this because you explicitly mentioned this example of Zajchar. We are perhaps different from some of the other politicians who are sitting in these benches right now who have tried to gain citizens' sympathy with some theatre. Let them do what they think they should, you can tell by that score in Zajcar of 3%. What is very important is that we remain firm, unique, and when it is good, but also when it is difficult, because it must not be withdrawn when it is difficult, but problems should be shared. I'm sure we'll do it together in the future, and above all because citizens need to benefit from it both in Zajecar and Vranje, Valjevo, Pazova in Vojvodina everywhere. Thank you for this support, indeed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20191	Bozidar Djelic, replica on behalf of DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20192	Obviously, you can't, let's not mention us for five minutes. If we're just so insignificant, why is this one now talking DS and everyone else? Because we are the only opposition to this regime. Not the only one, but the only one that will succeed in a few months, in which year, when Serbia's tabloidisation begins to suffer, is an attempt to turn someone who needs to deal with the executive authority into a judge, to show it as a failed experiment. This is budget rebalance. I'm not going to talk about the Finance Minister's party getting 0.89% in Zemun, or that it was insignificant in all other elections in Vojvodina, except for Kovin. It's not a subject. I'll just remind you of one thing. You're the government. We're not building a budget, you're setting it up, and the resolute minister on behalf of the entire government has said that he is fully responsible for this budget, thus bearing it by the government. What are the facts? Six months after the start of this budget, we have the biggest rebalance in the world. The biggest failure in the world's income. The biggest difference in the world between the adopted budget and the one we'll have adopted, if you have most, you'll probably have in a few days. We don't have a second mind, but we had an advance mind, when we told you that you wouldn't be able to collect these revenues, you wouldn't listen, and we were in our role, and your responsibility is yours. The responsibility for the poor budget, not only does it write a different figure in some rows, but it does it in the middle of the year, because there are those present in local self-government and they know it very well. When you change your budget in the middle of the year, you interrupt already running programs, public procurement procedures, and you don't even know how many budget tails you're going to leave in the places that you suddenly emptied. You've emptied everything about investment, this budget is for layoff, five billion dinars more for layoffs, and three billion for employment. This is the budget that denies agriculture and this from the "aflatoxin" of the government, not surprising. These are facts, please answer for the facts, and for DS, thank you very much, we will be here, a constructive and uncompromising opposition, as follows with Democrats.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20193	The word has been made by MP Dejan Radenkovic, I assume it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20194	Article 107(1) I can no longer believe that my colleague Djelic is nonstop in violation of the Parliament's dignity. If something had to be respected in this country and someone was sanctioned, you'd know where his place would be. I don't have a nerve here anymore, and other colleagues, to listen to this nonsense, nebulosis and demagogy, frustration, and that people just don't want to listen anymore, and that's proof, all these choices that show results, I mean DS. As long as they represent DS, she'll have such results.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20195	I will remind you, Mr Radenkovic, that Mr Djelic cannot harm the Rules of Procedure, but only the chairman of the National Assembly session. Mrs. Lucic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20196	Madam Chairman, right now you have rightly said that the MP cannot, but you and I are just protesting the way you've been holding the session, because you've allowed this kind of exposure. We're talking about a very clear subject here, and that's a rebalancing matter. So, like we said about the budget, it's unreal, and we say now, to the citizens, first of all, because the minister knows that, we shouldn't tell him. So the deficit isn't 179 billion, the deficit is 200 billion, and I'll see you back here... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20197	Let me tell you, you just warned me, because I let Mr. Radenkovic speak, you continued as well. Please let us all respect the Rules of Procedure, so that I may respect it in the end. Mr. Pejcic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20198	So, Article 107, actually, Mr Djelic here said one lie, that they are the only opposition in this House. I disagree with that, given that the DSS is an opposition break and during the debate, we have proven that we are one opposition party...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20199	Mr. Paicic, I am obliged to tell you that you cannot replicate through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20200	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I really want to thank you for what you said in front of the Serbian public, about what you encouraged all of us who worked to bring in economic operators, what are "Geoks" and "Ditra". What we expect in Vranj, which is true for the entire Pcinj County. About 1250 people will be hired at the Gooks and some 800 people at a company called Ditra. It's about 2,000 new jobs. I don't need to talk about what it means for Vranje and for the entire Pcinj County, but I can only thank you on behalf of all the people who voted for both SNS and other parties, because the work they get won't be politically colored, they won't get a job because they're members of this party or that party, but because they need it and because qualifications deserve it. Also, as far as the theatre is concerned, what you've now promised, given that I'm following your political career, I know you'll do it, and I'm also grateful for that. When we open the factory next year, you'll be our guest, we'll be there, and I can personally promise you that on the Bather in "The Skitulka" you can eat one blueberry on my account.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20201	Mr. Djelic, you have no basis for replication, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, that I hurt, I don't know where you see that basis for replication. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20202	Dear Chairman, may I ask how much time there is left for the parliamentary group? Okay, eight minutes, since there's another colleague who'd ask the minister a question. Dear ministers and colleagues who stayed until the end of the session, after lawyer Nikolic, it is difficult to say something new now, but I would like to commend one part of the budget rebalance, because no one has noticed it, and that is a new item relating to the office for a quick answer. It is defined with 30 million and 505,000 dinars and that is what is practical, not only a pre-election promise from the SNS, but also the need for this country to start a new process of creating a better investment environment in Serbia through such an office. Why? We have had guests from Indonesia who are representatives of the Committee for the Co-ordination of Investments Indonesia. It's a state body that's around-conceived on the principle of the office for quick answers, which we asked – what is the time period for issuing building permits? Their answer was that until almost three months ago and with the study of investment opportunities, they realized it was too long. Since recently, they have issued building permits and work permits for investors within five days. So, since we were present at that committee session and all the political options and parties of position and opposition, at that point we all looked at each other and realized that we were not yet able to create something like this in our country, in our environment. It takes a great political consensus not unanimity, as some opposition representatives want to present it, but a consensus on minimum conditions so that we can simply go towards certain reforms. We have a story on public sector reform, so PIO fund reform, so pension insurance, social enterprise reform, and it's all very difficult. Because if we wanted to, and there are economic models, which we could bring in in a very short time and implement, we would simply cause major earthquakes in general in economic transformation, not only in businesses, but also in the citizens of Serbia. Simply, we as a state and as a country in the environment are not ready for such rapid transformations. With us, it has to go slower, it has to go dosed, but it has to create one social responsibility that few people want to talk about, which is to keep fighting corruption, that maybe they're thinking about some extra-Budget fund where all those financials and investors who've been making money for the last 10 or 15 years, on the practical humpers of this people, are willing to pay what they've earned. And if they're making $937 million traffic, they're making a certain percentage of those million payments to the state, because they've made a fortune on the bill of this country. It's some concept to think about, and it's very difficult, in a way, to push it into the budget and it's voluntary and there's no big resistance, and we just all agree on these details. That is why these are some concepts that the political consensus must exist and simply the opposition must think about some common models, that certain laws must be truly uniformly handled. I thank you for this rebalancing. We hope that, no matter how many there are in this year, I don't see it, let's say from the point of view of the economy as some problem for the simple reason why it's the only way we can consolidate finance because by the time this government came into power, there's an impression, and you'll confirm it, we really didn't know where all the public finances were outside the budget. This is confirmed by the state auditor who says there was no list of projects, that there was no easy coordination with the Treasury administration, that there was no adequate way to manage finance, and therefore we had a violation of the law, that at the end of the year in December, we voted on all possible projects and covered the Assembly of some 1.4 billion euros in investments and programmes that had already passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20203	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Radojevic, three minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20204	Thank you, I'll speak very soon. Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, when you have such an opposition that is so inspiring, then it takes you 400 minutes to speak, so I will begin with the quote of Honorary colleague Borko Stefanovic, who, about an hour ago, told the SNS parliamentary group – you can no longer lie to all people. I'm asking what he meant, given that they, as an expert government, started a dozen or twelve years ago on the other side that should be involved in budgeting.? They got experts from 25 to 30 years old, so I wonder how that in the economy, finance becomes an expert in some business so young, does with some doctoral thesis taken off some site, and then come to apply it in practice or in some other way, as in medicine? That's your president, not ours. I'll ask myself, of course. (President: Mr. Djelic, don't throw it away. Don’t throw it away, for the actions of Mr. Djelic and his associates judge it. Everything that has brought and filled the budget in this country, everything at the beginning of the privatisation, if it had been sold, might have been good. Let's say "Cola", "Apathian" brewery, "Lav" brewery, all the cements in the state, the oil industry, everything that's brought huge profits and what we, what the workers and farmers of this country have done ourselves, then it's sold out, so it brings big profits to strategic partners and those who came out to teach us how to do it, how we didn't know how to do it ourselves, to use but it took someone to get us these key factories that brought us the key profits right away at the start of taking. After that, the sale of various other factories followed, and Mr Djelic, and I will quote him, says, three hours ago in the debate – I see you cannot sell "Telecom" and "Gallenika". We can, Mr. Djelic, it's easy to sell, but do you know whose Telecom is? If every worker or farmer on the periphery of this country led to his home and gangers and cables and participated with 1000-2000-3000 marks or euros in the construction of that network and then gave Telecom, or at that time PTT for use, as the basic means that they would use to charge the subscription and services, so I wonder, have you calculated how much of these people's participation is in this Telecom capital of this people? On whose behalf are you selling it or are we selling it because we can't sell it? He can really sell very easily. What's going on with Galenic? In 2007, when you took over it, it had 30m euros in surplus capital, i.e. profits, and now there are some 150m euros in shortfall.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20205	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20206	Here, since time is limited, I suggest only the minister not to go to a strategic partner at all, because Galenika is really with what's called enthusiasm for those who are part of the factory there, and they're not called management and economists, but they're called pharmacists, they call them technologists and they call them chemists. With medical doctors they can really pick up there, because Galenici's products can be sold without a sales network. Indeed, I think it would be good to spare some more factories in this country from some speedy privatisations, finding strategic partners and allowing our people to move quickly to change to get Galenika's drugs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20207	Thank you, Mr. Radojevic. Bozidar Djelic, right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20208	Thank you. First, you know how, the question of youth should be compared to competence. We didn't say that what you suggested to the 28-year-old minister of justice was necessarily bad, we'll see what his effect would be. As for the purchase of diplomas, it seems to me that the President of the Republic currently has a lot of questions to answer. It was just a question, that we suggested it. (Chairman: Please, Mr. Djelic, I apologize, please. ) As for other things, you are the Government, you say that unity here, I see that Mr. Colakovic, who is present here, has made a statement that he wants to separate the Ministry of Finance and Business today, right? We'll see what your rebalancing looks like. I was surprised to hear that you were against a strategic partnership with Russian partners. You said NIS shouldn't have a strategic partner. Did you announce here a change in SNS policy and giving up the strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, as far as this rebalancing is concerned? Here's because it's a matter of reason, I want to tell you that the time of zero interest rates in the world is near the end. In months to come, interest will go up. Worse, because it's going to be more, and for God's sake, it's going to be worse for us too. So I suggest you, this is a constructive thing, to check well as the ruling coalition whether it's a well-measured risk of increasing interest, let's say by 2% points, and how we're going to discuss within a few months, if there's an increase, because not a small part of our debt is in variable interest, variable. This is an even bigger issue for the 2014 budget, which we will talk about and that I am already announcing today that this will be a key problem. You said with the right to no longer increase tax rates. We'll see how it goes with the fight against the gray economy, how dry the drain is, how many people really refuse to pay. But there's going to be a big question of how that budget is going to come together and I'm warning you to look very well at what's going to happen to those interest rates. As far as DS is concerned... And as for your time, it's... )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20209	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, a replica, in the name of the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20210	I thank you, Madam Chairman. You know, there's this little nerd in every department that nobody at school likes, who keeps crying with a voice like that -- I know, I know, teacher, here I am, here I am. That's what my predecessor's speech looks like to me. However, the figures are inevitable and inexorable, and these figures show the effect of this little nerd, what he did and how he did in the previous period. (Chairman: Please, Mr. Granny. Please respect each other. Please, for the dignity of the National Assembly. Please, nothing offensive. There's a public debt. Here is the public debt table between 2001 and 2013. She had a fall there when it was the biggest sale. When it was the biggest sale, sir, when you sold the most, when the most money was from sales, and then the famous Government of Mirko Cvetkovic came from 2008 to 2012. Look at that jump. Is that a ability? And then you criticize this Government of the Republic of Serbia. For these two days, I've heard everything, just not criticizing budget rebalances, a rebalance with which no one is happy. I'm only satisfied that the rebalancing is not due to increased consumption. The consumption is domestic, controlled, no criminal stuff, no unnecessary stuff. The fact that the imputes aren't well-predicted, are they desired? No, they're not, but we don't want the deficit to be wild, as it was at a time when we took responsibility and when this government took responsibility for the functioning and control of finance in this country. (President: Time, Mr. Granny. Look at the public debt during this government. Straight line. That's what we promised. We promised, first, to shock, to stop, and then to reduce that public debt.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20211	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Aleksandar Radojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20212	Mr. Djelic, I didn't talk at all about buying a diploma, I was just admiring how it became such a quick expert in your sciences, how quickly it comes to people being educated at that age of 25 or 30. It's a little harder for me in medicine. In order to become an expert, you have to have 5,000 surgeries, 5,000 bronchoscopys, or 2,000 or 3,000, so you can prove yourself in the profession, and then someone calls you an expert based on school and diplomas and what you did in the profession. That's obviously not how it works for you, but if you're an expert in disassemblying the Serbian economy, that's what you see. In Cačka, for example, there were 36,000 employees in production prior to your term of office, and now there are barely 1,500. I didn't say anything against the Russian strategic partnership either. All I said was, in the future, we shouldn't be looking for strategic partners too fast. I mentioned "Gallenika" on the subject, because "Gallenika" is a national fortune and if "Gallenika" gets a foreigner, or an alien, as the Croat brothers would say, then the price of drugs from one dinar will jump to four or five. Then we're going to demonstrate a complete health system, because it's going to run out of money needed to treat people, because it's the price ratio between the domestic cure that's being made in Galenica, with our cheap knowledge of our experts from Galenika, compared to those drugs that are imported as finished. That, of course, increases the external trade deficit, if I'm not mistaken. As far as debts are concerned, I guess you, as an expert, were in charge of how much interest you were in borrowing. If you, as someone who had been a previous regime and owed land, didn't take care of it, then of course we will pay your debts. I expect you've taken care of it as an expert government and an expert team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20213	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20214	Thank you, Madam Chairman. You know how, in the official document that you delivered to us as a government, not us, but you as a government, you said you were going to sell to Galenika. That's what you wrote, not us. So, make a deal with each other. I didn't say you wouldn't, you didn't want to, but obviously it's going hard. But if there was a desire to do so, it was written in official government documents. Are you announcing he's giving up the Galenika privatisation? You need to work out what you want to do. What we can only say here, for a fellow commenting and personal appearance, I think there are better people in the Assembly who might comment on mine. As for Vranjska Banja, obviously when you lose the election you need to change the charter. That's not what we talked about. When we win the election, it looks like we can't rule, right? In the local community election at Vranjska Banja. But it's not a topic today. The theme today is budget rebalancing. This is the budget that goes down, which in itself will be extremely difficult to implement. As a result, relevant institutions such as the Fiscal Council and the IMF, so here is the DS in its expertise, says there is a significant risk on both the income and the distribution sides. The cost side can be compressed and this forms obligations that are not covered. Mr. Babico, thank you for your enormous compliment. (President: Please do not address the MP directly. All right. I thank those who showed the chart, which showed a steep decrease in Serbia's external debt. I was the finance minister at the time, and I thank you because it was an opportunity that we used to cut by 67% of the debt of the Republic of Serbia and it is not true that it was covered by privatisation. The biggest privatisations at the time were Cementara and the tobacco industry. So, thank you. You've been bees with criticism, but thank you for a very nice compliment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20215	The word is made by MP Vojislav Vujic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20216	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107, mentioned Vrnjačka Banja and the DS victory in the Vrnja Banja local communities elections. We have a little more than two local communities where DS won, so I just want the public to know about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20217	Mr. Vujic, I don't know how I hurt the Rules of Procedure, by mentioning the words of the spa. So let's respect the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20218	I'm going to show the chart again and I'm going to say again – you sold your grandfather's property to spend in the sampas, as it says in the Vranjska spa from which I come, without any new values, without any travel infrastructure, without any new jobs, without anything, you sold your heritage to pay off your debt. Then when those grandfathers ran out, look from 2008-2012, you were even more in debt. No one can say anything about that. As for the election, where you appear under the name and last name of the party, there you can boast. Where they appeared as GG and said, "We have won, and you should not have shown the party on that list."
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20219	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20220	Again, Mr Djelic said that as a government, we want to sell the Galenika and that I challenge it. I'm just appealing to the Ministry to think about it one more time. As a people and as a Galenika company, it has the potential to go from within to reorganization, to make Galenika the pride of this country as it was in the next 50-60 years, because Galenika is the fourth plant on planet Earth to produce penicillin in 1949. From that year to this day, she has educated so many experts that there are really no secrets to their drug production. It would be a catastrophic mistake to introduce them to someone, just as he would have been the best strategic partner, because he would have worked for himself, as Mr Babic lost his "Hemofarm" in Vrsac, who could and could not have a strategic partner to produce, which he proved a million times on the market and in the world and Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20221	The word has Minister Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20222	Let me just comment on this. Theoretically, it's really possible. I don't need anyone to convince me that it's possible to make Galenika a profitable company and that it can do the homework. We need to find a good director, that's really a prerequisite, and a director who will be willing to do some unpopular things at the very beginning, which is to estimate exactly what is the optimal number of employees who can withstand "Gallenika" from the aspect of cost of production. That's the point. Galenika has certain loans he has to pay, has the right costs for re-promatter. It is necessary to calculate how much to pay and how many people there need optimally to work to make production profitable. It's not good that 1,000 people were hired there in three years, that's the problem. If it hadn't been for that, now it would have been relatively simple, even without those measures, to make Galenika profitable. I expect the government, now must, now that privatisation is not done, will have to make a change of management and must bring someone who is ready to make this first move. You remember it wasn't a simple move with Petrochemia when she stopped at one point. We can't wait for Galenika to stop, but we can find someone who's capable, so if he can make his own profit from Galenika, then no one's going to chase to sell it. It wasn't the government's idea to sell Galenika because Galenika couldn't be profitable, but as it turned out in the previous period, that, unfortunately, those who represented the state did not give good representatives who could lead it. That's the problem. Can something different be shown now? I really don't know. I'm in favour of professional management of Galenika, not political and that experts in finance, not just pharmaceuticals, are running the company's finances, and of course, I'm sure there are a lot of good pharmaceutical experts in there, and I know a lot of people who work there. My mother-in-law used to work at Galennica. I really care that this company works well. Now she's retired, and she's sorry to see what Galenika looks like today, and what she looked like once when she was working.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20223	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20224	For the previous speaker, you have all of them together and the Minister of Economy who supervised it in previous years, the party that gave the staff to do so and the same party that led and health care. They're with you in the government, and then you see how you'll get better results. In any case, as far as the debt is concerned, I am very proud to have participated as finance minister in reducing our country's debt, and this is what the current finance minister has also apostrophyd, that the debt from 160% of GDP has been reduced to barely 30%. It wasn't a moment of great privatisation, but what is true is that large infrastructure projects and those you like to criticise like bridges in Belgrade and many other things were launched during the DS government. We will see and underline, very calmly, without any anxiety, with the facts of your reign. For now, 11 months later, four billion euros in additional debt has been on account of the Republic of Serbia since the first day of work of this government until today. Those are irrefutable facts. So far, there's not a single new capital facility, nothing new. In fact, only 50m euros have been spent in this rebalancing with the initially planned 500m euros for capital investments. We see that it is very difficult to implement all these projects. That's why I think it would be more correct, and also more productive for our citizens and for our country to try to deal with this extremely difficult crisis, to see that instead of constantly transferring responsibility to someone else, because you have a responsibility and it won't help you much, to see how you're going to run something that's the circulation of our economy. We've adopted a program that's not the Holy Scriptures. (President: Time. ) Look at the ideas in agriculture, in the domain of energy, culture and the way it can be financed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20225	Thank you. MP Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20226	I'm glad the bridge theme was launched without only starting the SNS. When you're so proud of the bridge as the only infrastructure facility built in Serbia, it's not only Serbia, and it's not only Serbia where you live, where you have your villas, where it's very nice for you. Speaking of the bridge, let's see how much Belgrade's debt is, and what's official is that at the moment of the election, Dragan Gilas was the mayor of Belgrade's debt of 50m euros, that the figure of around 900m euros is approaching at this point. Where are the public enterprises? How much is the bridge? How much is access to traffic? Can't be watched, although I appreciate my colleague by profession, Mr. Gilas, but it can't be shown that it's an economic analphabeta, so he says - the bridge costs so much and we're in so much debt, and where are the interest? Who's going to pay interest on those debts and those interest rates have to go into the price of the bridge? On the other hand, what's the bridge for? When was the last time you crossed that bridge? What's the passage? Was that bridge necessary? Is it necessary to build a monument for life in Belgrade? What's all this for? Where's the rest of Serbia? Do you know why you lost in Zajecar? At the moment I went to Zaječar's campaign to visit my friends, to help them, more unemployed were there and more people waited in the centre of Zaječar than was in downtown Belgrade. There were 37% of the unemployed Zasacars. Under whose government? Who was the main party of the former government? Why are you running away? Why are you putting pink glasses on your eyes? You can't cheat on Serbian citizens anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20227	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Radojevic, a replica of the minister's presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20228	Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me, I had a concrete proposal on Galenika. There really is a team of people who have a program to get out of the crisis and recover Galenika. If you're in the mood, we'd very much like to come to the government for a meeting that could be organised with you and talk about the topic of plans and programs and personnel structures of people who would be the backbone of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20229	Thank you. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20230	Madam Chairman, I think you're breaking the line, because here we have one buffalo party that no longer knows who's replicating Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20231	Please, Mr. Milivoevich, we will not use such expressions and insult each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20232	I'll give you a warning again that two SNS MPs are replicating Bozidar Djelic here. Let one of them agree to replicate Bozidar Djelic, one of them is the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20233	I'll explain it to you right away. I gave Mr. Babiæ the word based on the replica in the name of SNS, and Mr. Radivojevic, based on the replica on his exposure. It's all in line with the Rules of Procedure. If you don't think so, you can ask us to make a statement in the voting day. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Yes. We'll make a statement. National MP Bozidar Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20234	As far as capital facilities are concerned, we are very proud, like all of the Belgraders, of the bridge on Ada, very proud. The numbers aren't private numbers. As for the project, Mr. Hajdin, the most famous in Serbia, and one of the world's most famous, said it was quite justified. You will see that in the years that are coming, as it is now, it is not only a justified and very useful investment for Belgrade and for our entire country, but it is not all that the DS has done, from what it has been built, it is also Corridor 10, an arrangement for Corridor 11, which today this government is using from Azerbaijan through the Chinese, as it is popularly said to us, these are all the things that have been done during the term of our government. There are scientists on the street today. Capital investments, from Petnica, to the Science and Technology Park on Starar, to the renovated facilities in Novi Sad for universities and many other things, are all the things that DS did. For now, I want you to make some capital investments and bring in some new investors. That would be useful for our citizens. But for now, the facts are inexorable, as far as new capital investments are concerned, that you started, you found money, you started the works, you did, so far there's an empty set. As for investors, to whom you signed an understanding agreement, then contracts and some investments, for now it's still an empty set. It's your government's balance after a year, and it's inconspicuous facts. You can agree with that or not, but math is pretty stubborn. As for investments, look at the National Bank of Serbia site, which runs the number two of your parties, which is absolutely inappropriate and it is a unique case in the world that an active politician, however frozen he is, is running the Central Bank for the time being... (President: Time. ) This is the number you can check - investments are 155m euros, all previously agreed during the DS government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20235	Thank you, Mr. Djelic. Zoran Babic, replica. This concludes the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20236	I don't know what kind of mirage he's been living in? Of all the capital investments he mentions, I can only see capital failures that were in the previous four and rich years. I'd like to hear all those capital facilities in Leskovac, in the King. So he shook the earthquake, and it went into his private pockets. Look, whose? I'd like to see capital investments in Somboro. Of all that, for so many years of government, there's only one bridge I'm not saying I shouldn't. You should. How much is it? Say once how much it costs and how many generations of Belgraders, how many generations of Serbian citizens will pay for that bridge? Well then, when that bridge was built, they said, "Well, you know, we need access to traffic." It's all like when a minister comes to a village and says, "We'll build a bridge." Well, we don't have a river. Well, it doesn't matter. We'll make a river. That's right. That's right. Everything went wrong, not out of necessity, but out of a desire for advertising. Don't promote it as a value. As far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is concerned, what no one can honor, only if you put thick dark glasses on your eyes and say there is no such thing – zero tolerance for crime and corruption. Corruption and crime are no longer paid in Serbia. We have shown that this struggle is from the top, from the most significant, from the strongest, and from the further. We made a historic step towards Eurointegration. No more, by devasting such values even though we haven't had a party, or parades, or chops, I don't know what you've been doing or what you've been doing, aware of the work that awaits us in the future. Don't catch us anymore, don't grab the citizens of Serbia by the feet and drag into the depths of the ones you made for this country yourself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-02-0.u20237	Thank you, Mr. Granny. We're closing a circle of replicas. We've moved away from the darkness. There's really no more replicas. (Božidar Djelic, from the place: Replica. I'm really sorry, I can't anymore. Mr. Djelic, on your exhibit and calling the SNS has won Mr. Babic the right to a replica. (Božidar Djelic, from the place: I did not call SNS. ) Please allow me to decide on the right to reply. (National Ambassador Bozidar Djelic throws out of place. Mr. Djelic, don't throw it away. You didn't get your word for it. Mr. Djelic, I give you a warning. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask whether the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? (No) Does the proposal's representative want the word? (No) According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the draft laws and decisions referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. Dear People's MPs, this is what we do today's work. We continue our work on Thursday, July 4, 2013, starting at 10.00 p.m., when we will comply with Articles 157, 4 and 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall move on to the search in detail on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Tuesdays and Thursdays following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, Members of Parliament shall have the right to request information and explanations. I'm asking the MPs who want to make this happen to sign up. The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
