ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10899	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on my official record, I find that 102 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10900	I have a question for the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Mr. Obradovic on the announcement and demands from the university that he raise the cost of education and that it will range from 10% to almost 13%. In fact, this government has declared education as one of its priorities, and it all seems that the conditions of study make it difficult for students, that what is in the strategy adopted in the government is cited as creating conditions for the accessibility of education for all to actually be able to pay for education. So the government is working against its principles that it advocates, and against the strategy it has put forward. At the same time, I am trying to understand how everything that's happening is seen by all those professors who have kept their jobs at universities and are working simultaneously at the Ministry of Education and in other executive bodies of this country. In fact, in the government alone, I think we have four active professors and yet one of the active professors is Mr. Antic, adviser to the President of the Republic. I am interested – how will they reconcile their, least said, conflict of interest? As professors, they must advocate the autonomy of the university, and hence their right to set school prices, and as representatives of the government will be against their own decisions. I can't ask Mr. Antic, but I would ask Mr. Obradovic to answer me and to that – how does this conflict of interest rest? However, Mr. Obradovic does not have a tyconflict because he works at a private university that freely sets its prices and the government cannot affect the price of private universities. This is another indicator that this government doesn't really want to give young people the opportunity to properly educate themselves for the jobs they need to do, that they are adequately educated for the market that is so talked about, that they are adequately educated for participation in social life in the way this society requires. This government is actually working against young people. This government is actually working against the future. I would like Mr Obradovic to tell me – when will the action plan for the implementation of the adopted strategy be started, and how will it provide the means for this action plan to be implemented without doing so through increasing the cost of schooling and studying imposed on students? I must add that I expect that that association of students who received the status of the ministry and who has an open account at the Treasury has become in some way the state association of students, support these proposals, and how then the government will act in relation to students because I expect students to protest in the most different ways that we have already been used to. We can expect students on the street very quickly. We can expect students very quickly in a very active protest. I expect the government to take those steps that are needed to enable better schooling of students, better working conditions, better quality teaching, greater teacher presence at university jobs, not by governments, parliaments and other universities in the region, to really do something to get a modern education for the 21st century, not an education that keeps us in the situation and preserves the status quo as it is today. I expect Minister Obradovic to answer this question very specifically and to do so within the deadline provided for by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10901	Mr. Chikiriz, your MP group has not given me your authority. Would you like some later? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10902	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I will ask a very important question for the health of the entire Serbian population, but also very important for the town of Kragujevac, which has made huge efforts to build the first bank of stem cells in the RS and one of the first stem cells banks in the Balkans because the nearest bank of parent cells is about 600km away for Serbian residents. The town of Kragujevac, in agreement with the RS government, provided a location for the construction of the stem cell bank, provided all necessary infrastructure connections, provided a building permit. However, the construction of a stem cell bank that was scheduled to begin in March last year has not yet begun. It should be noted that the state of Serbia has lost between 4-8 million trusts on an annual basis, as the citizens of the stem cells deposit in the parent cell banks in the environment. On the other hand, we have lost a lot of new jobs, as only in terms of professional staff in the banks of stem cells in Kragujevac so far, about 60 experts from the area and a lot of auxiliary staff would be employed. The project of the stem cell bank has passed both internal and international expertise. All resources have been granted. A great help from the World Bank that has approved significant funds for the construction of stem cell banks and the only thing imposed in unofficial speculation is that there is a strong interest in lobbying which is not of interest to build a stem cell bank and that the stem cell bank is located right in Kragujevac. Since we as a political party advocate strong and comprehensive decentralisation of Serbia, it is not clear to us that these lobbies would be interested in not starting to build a stem cell bank primarily because of the fact that it suffers first and foremost the health of the population, that the state suffers and that citizens who pay twice the cost of depositing stem cells in countries in the environment rather than the deposit of stem cells in Serbia. On the other hand, in case a stem cell transplant is needed, it is normal for Kragujevac as a central place to be more accessible and the transplant process would go much faster, because this is how it should go abroad, customs and all other procedures should be carried out, and the health of the population suffers. As a result, my question is for the minister of education, science and technological development next – why Serbia lost two years and two years in science and medicine, and today to start building a stem cell bank cannot be completed in two years. So we've been losing four years. Why did we waste four years needlessly? Why isn't the construction of a stem cell bank started? Are there lobbys that prevent it and what lobbys they are? If there's no lobby, then there's no obstacle. Why does the ministry allow the country to lose its income, Serbia's citizens to pay double the price and have twice as much to do with the deposit of stem cells and their takeover for the treatment of many diseases? Third, why does a state with such irresponsible behaviour allow it to suffer the health of the population in a situation where we are known for our many diseases in the first places in Europe?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10903	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10904	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to remind us all together that this week is a battle against breast cancer. In that sense, I would like to stress that about 1,500 new cancers of the uterus are discovered every year in Serbia. The number of women who die of uterus cancer in Serbia is 500 per year. The cancer of the uterus doesn't give any symptoms at first. This is one of the diseases that can be treated and prevented by prevention. The best way to prevent breast cancer is to have regular examinations. Scanning periodic examinations of persons who do not have health problems in order to detect the disease are carried out every three years. I would like to commend the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the fight against uterus cancer. The screening office is open. There are instructions for implementation. There is a legislative regulation that is well-adopted. The organized screening cancer of the cervix is carried out in the home of health. The organized screening of the cancer of the cervix involves the organized invitation of women, the target population to the pope's test. The first screening cycle is the one that was performed for the first time in 25 years or for the first time after a period of more than five years in which the screening was not done. I'm saying all this because I think that right this week this Parliament should send a clear message and make it relevant to this topic. I'm saying all this because I come from a rural environment where, unfortunately, these programmes are still not available, as well as in most of Serbia's environments. Also, I don't want anyone to realize that there are no programs, that they don't run in major clinical centres. I want to stress that a lot has been done and that I believe that the Ministry of Health has a plan for the future. What interests me specifically, and what represents in the field one of the biggest problems, especially in rural areas, is when will the equipment be obtained? Once again, I would like to commend the Ministry's work, because I really think that after ten years we can begin to realize these programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10905	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10906	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to the Prime Minister, sent to the Minister of Trade and the Minister of Agriculture. Since information has appeared in public that, with the accession of the World Trade Organisation, Serbia will have to open its borders for genetically modified organisms, or genetically modified food, the public is very upset and very carefully observes what is happening on this plan. Of course, people are rightly upset because they are available through the Internet the results of many researches that show the full impact that genetically modified food can have on citizens’ health. It starts with having problems with organs, with tumors, with sterility and ultimately with very high mortality. It is very important that we think in the direction that some country has enough food means that it can also be a sovereign country. Only one country that has its own food can speak of sovereignty. In the end, I have to call on the Declaration brought by UNESCO in 1997, whose Serbia is a signator. It's a declaration of responsibility of the present generations to future generations. The public was so upset that the DSS parliamentary group, therefore a party that is very consistent and with many arguments advocated against the introduction of genetically modified food into Serbia, was flooded with calls and e-mails a few days ago when the Assembly's agenda confirmed the International Treaty on Plant and Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. So, a law that has no direct link to genetically modified food, but can cause damage to Serbia. The Environment Committee addressed this topic on November 13th when there was a large public hearing with 120 participants, very professional people from the NGO sector dealing with this problem and where there was almost a consensus that genetically modified food had no place in Serbia. The committee will also deal with this issue on February 6th when it will call on the public to participate in this. In the sea of uncertainty about genetically modified food, whether it will be introduced, whether it will be introduced, one of the good news, on which I base my question is that it is in Berlin on January 19th, at the time of so-called. International Green Weeks, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Mr Danilo Golubovic, signed the so-called The Danube Soy Declaration. What does this declaration mean, which, by the way, I have to say, is very important to me, signed by 17 countries of the Danube region? So it starts with Germany, or Bavaria on behalf of Germany, Switzerland, Hungary, Austria, Slovenia, Croatia, and it is good that Serbia signed it. The aim of the Declaration is to set up a new policy in the area of soybean cultivation with high nutritional value, but soybean without genetically modified organisms, which would serve as food for human and animal consumption. According to what I understand, the state has defined itself as soybean cultivation without genetic modification. So, completely healthy, natural soybeans, as well as oily turnips. I must say that although the state does not recognise, the ministry does not recognise that there are numerous parcels in Serbia that are sown by genetically modified soybeans. A woman to be trusted, Dr Mirjana Milosevic of the Institute of War and Vourage claims it is thousands of hectares. So there are genetically modified soybeans in Serbia, and that is why it is very important that we deal with this definition only with healthy soybeans from now on. So no genetic modification. My question to the prime minister, Minister of Trade and Minister of Agriculture is – does signing this declaration mean that the state of Serbia, or the government of Serbia, has finally defined itself and has definitely broken that Serbia will not allow genetically modified food to enter its territory, or is this another maneuver to deceive Serbian citizens? It is a question that we should consider both citizens and MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10907	Thank you. The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10908	I have a question for the Serbian government about the court's decision in Strasbourg. In the first instance, the Strasbourg court ruled that participants of armed conflicts at Serbia's premises, i.e. First of all, NATO aggression in 1999, default payments, as well as payments based on discrimination against the payment of war veterans to seven municipalities in southern Serbia, that according to the same procedure, the Serbian government must look at all the facts and set out the competent authority to carry out the census, determine how to pay off and proceed with the decision. Lately, for the last six months, through Serbia, various associations, meshetars, even individual law offices, have been making lists of war veterans calling them to enroll, for, my God, they will provide them with these famous war logs and missed receipts. In doing so, all of our colleagues, my fellow war veterans are obliged to pay, about 500 dinars, about 1,000 dinars, about 2,000 dinars, and make a commitment to segregate 10, 20 to certain law offices, even more percentages when they come to collect those funds. Since the court's decision in Strasbourg is very clear, given that the state of Serbia is obliged to carry out the process of listing all war veterans who, by decision, intend to seek this right, I demand and ask the government of Serbia – when, in what way and which state authority will implement that decision by the court in Strasbourg, because I believe and am sure, as the law says, that it must be done by the state body, that these funds will probably be allocated from the Republic of Serbia's budget, since it, according to the finance minister, is not intended for such a purpose in this first part. It'll probably be rebalanced or otherwise secured. So I repeat the question to the Serbian government -- which body, in what procedure, will record all war participants. Namely, for the sake of the general public and for the sake of all fellow MPs, they should know that there are several hundred thousand of our fellow citizens who expect this right and expect to get the money they deserve or the money that belongs to them, and above all, based on the court's decision in Strasbourg. I believe that in the coming period, the Serbian government will analyse this issue well and this decision and as soon as possible determine the competent state authority that will implement this decision, because people are in the field, our fellow citizens are engaged, singled out in various associations and various meshetars of 1,000, 2,000 dinars of their poverty, paying by hoping that they will get their money, in fact it is clear to everyone that this will have to be done by the state, the state authority, so I'm asking this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10909	Thank you. The word has a national emissary of Jelena Trivan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10910	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, my question to the government concerns education. In fact, as everyone knows, the Serbian government recently adopted an education strategy that is a very ambitious one and I could say a good document. He predicts that investment in education with 4.5% is 6%, it is a significant investment, and that it will be spent, all of these new funds, to the expansion of a network of school institutions, to the opening of a number of gymnasiums, and to raise the number of highly educated in Serbia. With all of this we can all agree here, we can all sign it and always say declarative – education should be the strategic goal of each country. But what's real and what's true is that real investment in education doesn't exist, that, to be colloktious, education and today the ninth hole on played by these governments, that there are serious reform moves nowhere but in this strategic paper and that education is still in the wandering between different concepts and great poverty. What is the biggest problem is that it is the right to education, as a fundamental human right, has become inaccessible today to a large number of citizens because of the great economic crisis and great poverty and that in this sense a large number of children in Serbia are starting to come out of the education system, because their parents cannot pay it and that in this sense one country must find measures and mechanisms for education not to be the privilege of the rich. In 2009, we launched an action that was first launched in Belgrade, then expanded to the level of the entire Republic of Serbia, a free textbook action, and it came across a great deal of approval from all citizens, given that when the major economic crisis started, we could no longer define those who were socially endangered, who were not, because all Serbian citizens were less or more, socially endangered in such poverty, and all such assistance was needed. For four years, citizens of Serbia, or their children, have received textbooks, there were always funds for it, despite the crisis, so that today the minister of education would address the citizens of Serbia and say that this year for the first time, the money for free textbooks will not be. Now I'm asking the question. Does this mean that the government that has money for pointless channels and 12 billion for such a channel, which so far owes two billion, and predicts another four and a half billion, for everything, and for the sidelines from Valjev to Loznica has money, there is only no free textbooks for children and children in Serbia, or does that mean that this government is in front of bankruptcy and there is nothing money for, nor a set of textbooks for children in the fifth grade, which, you will admit, is not a large sum compared to the entire budget? Does this mean that the entire education strategy, this ambitious, which implies investing from the lowest to the highest education, that secondary education will be mandatory for us, which provides for subsidized loans for education and so on, is actually empty paper and that the government has deceived us, that there is no intention or means to invest so much money in education, or that there will be no future for elementary things, such as textbooks. The Democratic Party strongly opposes the idea that this noble, human and above all necessary action to give free sets of textbooks to students, requires the Serbian government to concentrate, instead of the pointless consumption that we now have and free borrowing, on what are the real needs of Serbian citizens and on finding funds for free textbooks, as required by the Serbian Government, while talking about the rights of national minorities and solving different conflicts related to minority communities, to remember that for all these years, the Ministry of Education has not provided them with elementary textbooks and that this is part of a whole picture in which education represents the least important thing for this government, and they have money for every nonsense, except for the children of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10911	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10912	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question today to the Government has been directed to the Ministry of Industry and Finance and it is said – what is the reason for the bankruptcy proceedings against the construction company "Gradjevinar" from Nis? Why doesn't the bankruptcy in the tender, based on the court's decision, sell the property of the builders and settle trusts and shareholders, or workers? After badly implemented and broken privatisations, the company "Gradjevinar" from Nis, once the largest giant in southeastern Serbia with over 700 workers, has taken a social programme and since April 2010 are on the National Employment Service's record and have not received profits since 2008, i.e. the company owes them, on average, 24 salaries. Workers have multiple judicial violations and have reported their claims to the Privatisation Agency in accordance with the government regulation of the Republic of Serbia. There is a proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia to open a bankruptcy procedure against the "Builder". Gradjevinar owns a very valuable property, a administrative building in the centre of Nis in zone A and land in the industrial zone, which is two attractive payments to the surface of two hectares and seven hectares, and other properties in Nis and Belgrade, which is covered by the Privatisation Agency. The city of Nis and the Privatisation Agency need help, to sell the property at market prices, rather than in deprivement. There are reasonable doubts that there are some tycoons behind the bankruptcy proposal who want to buy the "Builders" property for small money. The bankruptcy process would take at least a year, for which time workers could not charge any of the sales for the value of the "Builders" property, far greater than the demand for workers. On the basis of the regulation on the recording of workers' claims and the court's ruling in Strasbourg, paying back back the country's liabilities and for the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, it is up to the Citizens' Workers to settle from the assets they have acquired for years. In the event of bankruptcy over the construction company "Gradjevinar" loses the Republic of Serbia, the town of Nis and the "Buildwinar" workers, and the tycoons and individuals associated with them are given. With confidence in this government, which certainly isn't as previous, I hope a positive solution to my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10913	Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Milos Aligrudić, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović, Branko Ružic and Milorad Mijatovic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Branka Totic, Director of the Institute of Intellectual Property and Nevenka Novaković, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the 6th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAWS. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on European Integration. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, as well as that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. You've got a schedule of time in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Just to let you know, Minister Obradovic is in the building. We'll just wait a few minutes for him to enter the O.R. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. Does Professor Zarko Obradovic, minister of education, science and technological development want a word? Here you go. Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10914	The President-in-Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a respected colleague and fellow MPs, is before you a test of the law that the Government proposes to amend and supplement the Marks Act, which was adopted in 2009, with the intention to significantly improve this regulation, and thus improve good practice of protecting the rights in the field of stamps. During the application of the applicable Marks Act, certain problems and ambiguities have been shown in practice, which will be fully eliminated by the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions which make improvements to the applicable laws in four basic directions. The first group of amendments and additions contained in this proposal aims to address certain perceived shortcomings in the termological nature and thus to allow for a more precise interpretation and more efficient application of the Marks Act. The second set of amendments and additions relate to works governing civil-law protection, aimed at establishing a more efficient brand protection system in the event of his injury. The Special Group of Amendments and Supplements shall ensure that individual provisions, the EU directive governing the area of trade mark law, are consistently passed in domestic law. These are amendments and additions to the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of legal-intellectual property and the Directive on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States in the field of trade marks. The fourth group of interventions in the text of the applicable law are those amendments and additions which are carried out in accordance with the binding principles contained in the so-called ‘. Trips to an agreement relating to trade aspects of intellectual property rights. Coordination with the rules applicable to the World Trade Organisation is needed during negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Serbia to the World Trade Organisation. I point to some of the most significant newspapers that will advance the current Marks Act. In addition, the definition of the stamp is specified by explicitly stating two conditions which must be cumulatively met - so that the character can be graphically presented and that it is suitable for the distinction of goods, i.e. services in transport. Legal protection may be granted by a self-sign which is suitable for the distinction of goods, i.e. services in transport, and all characteristics of the character that make it unmatched for differentiation are taxed. In a general way, a prohibition on the protection of characters of descriptive character is prescribed and the definition of descriptive characters is further specified. For example, the indication of "milk" is a sign containing a statement of the type of product, i.e. a service, without any other dissentive features, so they cannot be protected by a stamp because on these elements of the sign they cannot obtain a monopoly in favour of any person, but must remain free of traffic. The amendments to the law in the act concerning the representation of foreign natural and legal persons provide for the obligation to appoint representatives only for those foreign persons who do not have a seat or residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. In this way, foreign persons who have residence or headquarters in the territory of the Republic of Serbia are allowed to operate in the process before the Institute of Intellectual Property, without the obligation to appoint representatives, thus bringing them into an equal position with domestic persons, which is in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. Instead of the principle of international depletion of the right established by the applicable law, amendments introduce a system of national depletion of the right that eliminates the possibility of so-called "the law". parallel imports. The exhaustion of the right is limited only to the situation where the owner first places goods marked with a stamp on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and not beyond its borders. This ensures a higher level of legal certainty for stamp holders and control over the sale of branded goods. By preventing parallel imports, unfair competition is prevented under the conditions of parallel imports. The system of national exhaustion of rights is compatible with a system of communal depletion of rights that exists at EU level. Amendments and additions to the scope of civil and legal protection shall create preconditions for more effective and effective civil and legal protection of trade marks, i.e. the right to apply. Amendments to these provisions will contribute more effectively to the conduct of courts, in whose jurisdiction it is the conduct of civil and legal protection proceedings and more effective legal protection of rightholders. Further compliance has been made with the standards set up in this area by the Directive on the implementation of legal-intellectual property. Also, the procedural provisions are in line with the amendments to the general procedural laws that occurred after the entry into force of the applicable 2009 Marks Act. In addition to more clear and methodologically transparent regulation of provisional measures and measures to provide for evidence, the bill also provides for an extension of judicial protection by introducing the possibility of investment in audit as a legal remedy. Also, in view of the fact that the damage to the stamp tends to pull with it, and the violation of reputation and renaissance, both the brand-marked product itself and the owner of the stamp. Amendments have been proposed to provide for the possibility of compensation not only of property but also of immaterial, moral damage in the event of brand injury. The amendment to the act relating to the protraction of provisional measures and the measure of security of evidence aims to ensure more effective protection of the rightholder both during the procedure itself and before the action is brought. In view of the fact that the imposition of a provisional measure and the provision of evidence may also be required before the application of a law infringement charge, the proposed amendments to the law are also prescribed sanctions for the case of non-application of an infringement of the right within a certain period which is in accordance with the law on enforcement and security, as well as the EU IPR Directive. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honourable Members of the People, in the expectation that the proposed law on amendments and amendments to the Marks Act will be adopted to establish a more effective system of trademark protection, in the name of the Government and will express the willingness to accept your suggestions and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10915	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10916	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, I would like to begin this presentation on this bill with a few interesting details. The first register of stamps in Serbia was established in 1921, at the time of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. That register registered 1,700 stamps. The first registered mark in Serbia, i.e. the protected sign, was the sign of a "dictaphone" whose owner was then, and today, the "Dictaphone" Corporation. So it's still a stamp that exists. In addition to this brand of these first registered stamps in Serbia, it is mostly foreign stamps, today it is in use of only 19 stamps, these are some famous world brands, or stamps, such as "Mercedes", "Varta", "Singer", "Colinos", but also our brand, or brand "Mercedes". Finally, as of 31 December 2011, 149,000 stamps were registered in Serbia, and the stamp function, or a legally protected sign, is that it enables the consumer to distinguish the goods or services of the manufacturer, i.e. the natural or legal person from the identical or similar goods of another manufacturer, i.e. natural and legal person. So it's a stamp function. I also cited the definition, it sounds kind of complicated, but in fact every trademark is helping the consumer to buy it, when he wants to buy some original goods or to take some original service, and that it can distinguish it from something that's counterfeit or that's piracy. The famous stamps have incredible values, have incredible power, and these values can be translated, or shown at a price. The most expensive, or most valuable world brand, as you can imagine, is a $69 billion Coca-Cola. The next most valuable in dollars is the famous Microsoft brand, which today is worth $65 billion in the market. In our house are the brands of companies such as the company "Strk", "Bambi", "Jelen", and lately I'm glad to say, and that's the brand "Goldiborac". On the website of the Institute of Intellectual Property we have reports for some of the last maybe 10 years, it's at least on the site, and I assume that the Institute as an old organization has reports from some previous periods. But in the last ten years, these reports have been on the site, and from every sector, you have reports of what was done that year or were done at the Bureau. The latest report that was published, the annual report published on the Institute's website, is for 2011, so I'll use that data as well. The annual report, therefore for 2011, states that 6,955 applications for registration of stamps were submitted to the Institute, of which a total number of one-third of the applications, so for registration of stamps, were submitted directly to the Institute for Intellectual Property, and so two-thirds are through the International Committee which I think has its headquarters in Geneva. Since the applications were filed, or registration has been made or 6.228 is registered, so it seems to me somewhere around 80% that it has been accepted. So, when the Bureau did all those procedures that it did before it approved the registration of a certain stamp. The most representative stamps, i.e. the maximum number of registration applications for stamps, i.e. protected signs, are from pharmaceutical or pharmaceutical products, then for food products, for business services, office products, means paper products, education and entertainment services. These data also tell us a lot when we talk about what is one of the most powerful industries in the world today, if you see that the most required is to protect pharmaceutical products, so it's probably in every country, then it's also an indicator of what are the most powerful, one of the most powerful industries in the world today. This proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the applicable Marks Act has amended some 30 members. I believe that this bill has 33 members who are changing existing members in the current law and that these types of changes were discussed in more detail by Minister Obradovic. They can group, and he did, in a few kinds of changes. So, there have been changes made somewhere to eliminate weather defects. In some places, the promoter wanted to interpret some members more precisely or to define something to make it clearer. So let's say the first term, it seems to me to be changing Article 4 where a little detail is what can be protected, or registered as a protected stamp. It's a little wider and a little more precise, and we welcome that kind of change. It is also Minister Obradovic, and this also explains that some, i.e. a large number of changes, are actually conditioned by agreeing or accepting certain solutions from so-called. European Directives to make this possible from the European Parliament, which is addressed to the European Council, etc. Otherwise, this is one of the reasons that seems to me to be being copied and going along with every bill, which is, I guess, to us MPs, too, in order to convince us that we are being able to comply with our legislation with European law, EU law. To tell you the truth, dear promoters, we have been a little bored with this sentence, and it makes me sick with the citizens of Serbia, that they are tired of these directives that come from the EU every day. Let me remind you, you were probably listening to the news this morning, that the latest or most recent directive is the functioner or representative of an EU member country or to say the leader, which is that the ambassador of Germany told us yesterday, was quoted today by the media, so that Germany would like Serbia and so on. The state or the republic of Kosovo, to exchange ambassadors, to raise the co-operation between Belgrade and Pristina to the ambassador level. That is why I am telling you that Serbian citizens are quite tired of these European directives. I am now going back to this argument of yours, that it is a alignment with the European directives. I wanted to say that Serbia is tired of the directive, but that you could explain this differently. We understand what you mean by this, that in some countries, some are European, some are not, that there is much greater experience in this area, above all because these countries have a much more developed industry, so they deal much longer and more extensively with intellectual property in general, even trademark protection. So, it is undeniable that we need to see how some countries have better worked things out than we have, simply because they have much greater experience, so I ask you not to write that it is a harmonisation with European directives anymore, but that it is simply accepting some better solutions. As I said, the DSS and MPs believe some changes are justified, but we also feel that some changes are not justified. The DSS MPs have submitted 12 amendments and we will discuss this in more detail once the debate is in detail. Now I won't waste my time, but I'm going to point to one group of your proposed amendments and additions, which we've also submitted to amendments, which are members of amendments and additions 24, 25, 26, 27, which are being amended by members of the applicable law 74, 75, 76. If you're here to look at the amendments, then you know what we're talking about. We have suggested that these amendments be deleted because you are in some way interfering with the work of the judge, that is, through this law, instructions are given to courts and judges so that they act in certain disputes when it comes to disputes over this issue, or trade marks. We MPs had a lot of bill proposals. Some of us have read, some of us have not been able to read, but nowhere has we come across that through one law, which brings executive authority, gives instructions to the court on how to act. It's a very clear reason why you wanted to do it. You can, for example, find in the press that very often judges spoke to the Institute of Intellectual Property to help them resolve a dispute, or simply not know how to act because there is no long case law and see how it was solved earlier. Then there were large or long delays, and these delays create certain losses for producers, etc. So your intention is clear and she can be understood, but we don't think you can give instructions to the court this way. First of all, these instructions are lame, short. It's not the law about how the court acts, but only through a few members you give instructions. I'll read what changes we think you should delete in this bill. It's a member of the 74th law in force. The title is "Process after the suit." We suggest you delete this supplement you're making. Article 2 "The action on the suit of the First Article's position is urgent." Then: "A proceeding for infringement of the law in the application will be terminated by the court until the final decision of the competent authority upon application". Further in the manual, it is already the next member to talk about a temporary measure: "If there is a risk of irreparable damage on the part of the rightholder, the court may set a temporary measure without a previous hearing of the opposing party". We believe that all these supplements are inadmissible and that you simply cannot interfere with the work of the court. This last thing I read was also a little hair for common sense. I may be denied and said that somewhere else is done, but if the court has decided or wants to set a temporary measure, then you say – without a previous hearing of the previous party. How will he make a decision if he doesn't hear the other side? Just based on one side's opinion. It's just, logically, this isn't right for me. You wanted to point out this big problem that exists in the area of legal protection of intellectual property with these changes and additions, and that is actually the problem of the Serbian judiciary. In addition to all the other problems, we have this problem, that the judicial authorities, or judges and everyone who works in the court, and then prosecutors, even the police, are not sufficiently trained, or they do not have the proper education, so to speak, in this matter or, since the minister of education is there, that the specializations in this area are lacking. A decision on the dispute in this area, means, at all, intellectual property and stamps, can reach 42 courts in Serbia. There are so many of these first-degree courts right now. So, theoretically, each of these courts can get such a single case, and then only two judicial councils, which will only say such two courts have people, or experts who deal exclusively with it. So it could be said that these two are somehow referred to this matter of these other 40. I know that the Institute of Intellectual Property has spoken to the people of the Justice Academy in time and that you have arranged certain specializations with the Academy, so to speak, that is, training. I don't think the Judicial Academy has any official specialist studies, but there are other modes, that a certain number of people who enroll the Judicial Academy, these are people who have completed legal sciences, to go into the performance of such specializations, which would be very helpful in the work of the courts when it comes to this area. That would be one legal and long-term solution. So interventions through some law with court instructions are short-term measures, and the only long-term and real measures are just that, that we really educate people for this area. Otherwise, there are different specialities for lawyers. It's only when you start reading these great laws that you find out how many different areas and matter are and that there are a lot of different areas and that not all one person can do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10917	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10918	Madam Chairman, respected ministers, state secretary, respected MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the DS will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Marks Act because they strengthen our country's positions in the domain of economy and knowledge and because these changes contribute to the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation. We all know not only here in Serbia, but in the world for stamps such as Facebook, Google, Microsoft, but in Serbia there are brands, which in legal terms these words are called stamps, such as "Strouberia" "DND" and many other software companies that allowed Serbia to export as much as $240m of software products in 2011. For the first time that year, we exported more software than raspberries. It's just the beginning. The previous government where I had the honour of being, before I was succeeded by Mr. Obradovic, who continued a large number of programmes in that domain, I am grateful to him for that, the previous government invested as much as 400m euros in our country's scientific and technological infrastructure. This is the biggest injection, this domain of economy and knowledge, in the history of our country and some of the concrete things that we have today thanks to this efforts of the previous government is a bright science and technology park on Starar, which began 20 years ago, was left in the weed and finally finished today. The first-class space of 16,000 squares is available to our innovative companies and their foreign partners. It's the capital that Belgrade has today, but there are opportunities for similar parks, and there are projects for it to appear in both Kragujevac and Nis. Let's not forget in Novi Sad the first stage of that program is over. The knowledge economy isn't just software, it's not just "start apps." The knowledge economy is a brand that shows that scientific achievement and health are embedded in a food product. In fact, when we look at what they're launching as products, the great multinationals from that domain in the world, we see that for 10 years we've been talking about how juicy and quality food is, that story is largely told, but there's an ingredient that ensures that this food provides a better, better and longer life. Because of this, the knowledge economy is something that covers almost all sectors. In our clothing, in our textiles, honourable MPs, we have stamps that show that from the domain, science, the ingredients of a particular subject have a positive effect on citizens' health. Are we still far from the subject? Yes, but because of that, the issue of stamps is a central question of intellectual property for us. It would be good to learn from what is today the most promising in the world, to ensure that the resources we have that are not unlimited, give the greatest effect. Today, the economy is no longer an economy of the first industrial revolution, which was labour intensive and no longer an industrial revolution that was capital intensive. Today for those who know how to apply knowledge both in software and in the food industry and in shoes and in metal, this application of the knowledge economy ensures that we have companies in the world that are profitablely intense. One Facebook with 7,000 employees worth 60 to 70 billion dollars, one Apple with 70,000 employees is the most valuable company in the world. That's what I'm talking about, and that's why the DS, because this law that can't solve everything, is a modest but realistic step forward, that the greater the number of our entrepreneurs and foreign partners of our companies, the more trust in our legal system that will ensure the protection of domestic stamps that they are well protected on our ground and provide a march on regional European and world markets. The protection of other people's stamps on our ground is an element of legal certainty that we can ensure that more investment is invested in our country, right where it is of the greatest benefit to us, and that is in the knowledge economy and not only in software but also in all other parts of our economy. But DS thinks these changes we're going to support are not enough. I'm just going to mention four key topics that I think we're going to have to get back to this topic very quickly. Through this law, but also through some other laws that cover strict matter, which is very important for strengthening stamps, strengthening brands, strengthening intellectual property, it is about strengthening the economic blood count of our economy. First, the minister spoke of it, but I believe that he himself sees that what is proposed in this law, in terms of the protection of words and some other terms that are in everyday use, is something that this law does not regulate to a sufficient extent. I want to say that today in Serbia we have companies that, in their brand, are protected, we have the word - bread, muffins, water, deer and many other words or expressions from everyday life. Today in Serbia, we do not have enough clear doctrine, this law shows this, about this important issue. Why does it matter? Because if someone manages to protect that word for a product in the sector that is the centre of its operation, this company, this entrepreneur has a great advantage over others. If someone sells or trades shoes and manages to protect a shoe or a boot in their own brand, it specifically means that our citizens would understand that tomorrow someone else will not be able to protect that same word. It'll be slow. What it says is that there has to be some graphic expression, to be something specific, but we can see from these terms very clearly that it gives a great deal of discretion to the Institute for the Protection of Intellectual Property and the Ministry that maybe someone who won't be able to give something tomorrow or wants to give to someone else. We don't think that's good. Someone will say, "Epl" in English means apples, yes, it is, it's protected but it's in the domain of information. Apple is not active, and we know it well, in the domain of production and trade in apples or fruits and vegetables, nor has it any activity in the food industry, so we can say that the word protected does not in itself give a direct advantage to this great technology company in that domain of its activity where it expands its business. That's why we think it would be very important for the future of our country's business to have the Ministry, the Government and the Institute of Intellectual Property come out with a much clearer doctrine. The simplest thing would be to say that everything in a dictionary can't be protected from now on. Then we know that's the case, so if someone is active in their clothes and if they want to have a brand, then they have to protect their own name, as many Italian families have done, or something else, which is characteristic of them. We think it's very important because otherwise it can happen to us, and I have to say that it's already happening, that some curious people are starting to get more and more going to protect certain stamps that they know might be interesting for someone tomorrow. I guess it's not the IPR to make such a secondary trade possible for some stamps. That certainly shouldn't be his activity. The second element, we have experience, now about 10 years with this matter. I was the finance minister when a multinational from the tobacco industry came into a big dispute with a company registered in Mostar, which registered the same brand as that great Japanese multinational, in the form of the tobacco industry. It was slow, I can see that some MPs who've been here for a long time nod and remember that, it was hard to explain to that multinational who protected her brand everywhere in the world, as it was possible that some domestic company, i.e. From the region, she managed to protect him here in Serbia? Fortunately, in recent years, we've had far fewer problems like this. We have another type of dispute, and right now, I'm not getting into the metrics of the dispute that I'm about to mention. We've had a dispute over the Water Water brand for several years. I repeat, I don't measure whether anyone is right or wrong, but what happened here is that one firm that entered into a business arrangement with a strategic partner, one of the parties invented the ownership of a brand and water in the name and possession of a foreign company. Today, this court dispute is extremely complex and goes on forever and some new companies appear and this stamp is constantly transferred to the property of another company. This isn't just the matter of this law, but I think it's very important, if we want to have investments in our country, if we want someone to partner with some of our companies, especially in the knowledge economy, especially where there's a valuable brand, where the mark means a lot, then we have to have a clearer doctrine about how to invent that brand. Does that stamp have to belong to the firm, not to the owner of the company, and to separate the property of the company, on the one hand, and ownership of the stamp, on the other hand? It may seem technically complicated, but it's very important for business. Believe that a large number of valid investors in our country are increasingly asking the question – to whom does the brand belong, to whom intellectual property belongs, and could anyone who is a partner at a given time be able to move that very valuable property from that company? Like it wouldn't be good to make an agreement, and tomorrow one of the parties will be able to transfer property, for example. It's a building or a factory on another company, too, and it's even more harmful that someone removes what the company can't operate without. Maybe the hall can be replaced, but the company can't be renamed. We've seen on a case here that I'm going to mention our investor, one of the many who tried to do business and invest in Croatia, what happens when the stamp is misused. We have our entrepreneur Slob Vukicevic, who has invested 18m euros to take over the trade chain in Croatia "Turbolomac". He entered a court dispute which, I can't comment here, because, as we can't comment on court disputes in Serbia, we can't comment on those in Croatia either, but the effect is that his partner, who was a former minister in some Croatian governments, ensured that he who invested could no longer use the brand. Then how can this store work? Our investor who was known for his regional performance was after the sale of his company "Drgi Kolinsko" was the general director of a regional group and no one could question his good intentions and lost the entire capital he invested in the country on the Croatian market. Let the example show that abuses in this domain can lead to serious questions. The ban on the use of stamps at a given time is very important, as we can see. The second topic is what happens after the stamp when there is a dispute, whether it can be moved, whether it can be banned from using the stamp when there is a dispute over its ownership or ownership of the company, it is a topic that, believe it or not, becomes very quick, very important and it is something where Serbia has to precede. The third element in this law, which we do not see enough, is certain that at the moment of such a major crisis, this cannot be a priority for our citizens, but we as the highest home in this country must follow fully what is happening in the area of trade marks and intellectual property in the EU. What happened? After nearly twenty years of strenuous negotiations, the EU has reached a consensus on strengthening the internal single market in an intellectual property domain, patent protection and trade marks. It was a huge object, I won't go into detail. For example, Spain and Italy have blocked the agreement for years because it is projected to reduce the cost of patents and everything that goes in terms of documentation not being translated into all EU languages. They blocked it, but there was a consensus. What is important for us here today is that there has been an agreement that deadlines are decreasing and that costs are significantly reduced for protection on the single European market. We here have a lot to say and it is true that we have a alignment with what is EU legislation, but I am afraid that what happened at the end of last year is that it is recent, but it is not sufficiently visible in this law. We from the DS expect that very quickly, and there is no confusion in having this law and other laws of the domain of intellectual property resurfaced, in order to fully comply with what was hard work, a major compromise within the EU, and to use this compromise to some extent, not to wait for us to adopt it and that as a candidate country, and hopefully tomorrow, a country that will start negotiations, to take advantage of it to the right extent. In the end, the fourth thing that certainly isn't the domain of this law, but is something that can ensure that it is well or badly implemented. I think we talk about this subject so many times in our home, it's important that I mention it here. And the best law, if it's sloppy or misimplemented, that we don't talk about corruption and other things, is a law that doesn't have the same value as one that might be slightly less ill-conceived, but is well, properly and transparently implemented. Here, listening to what the government intends to do in general, I urge the Government of the Republic of Serbia to use, when it already thinks it should go into reform of the network of courts, to specialize in a number of courts for this topic. Why do I say that? I think anyone who wants to read this law and all those other laws that cover intellectual property knows that what we have in our laws today is just one small piece of what both the prosecutor and the attorney and the judge need to know that they would defend, attack and judge properly. There's a lot in international conventions. Much is found in very complex opinions of international and European bodies. In other words, in order for someone good to rule matter here, they need to be specialized. Here is my appeal on behalf of DS – specialize in several courts. Here, last time there was a specialization in litigation proceedings. Today in Belgrade, we have a couple of courts that are very specialized and we think it's starting to produce good results, because when something is well known, then it's well assessed and well judged. We think that perhaps more than some changes to this Marks Act, the specialization of some courts for this topic would have the greatest effect that deadlines are respected, that costs are as small as possible and, most importantly, that what is decided when a dispute occurs, and such disputes have many... Let's look at the biggest dispute of all times between Apple and Samsung in the domain of mobile telephony and billions of euros allocated in one direction or another in that domain. We are far from such battles here, but specialization will lead to quality. Quality will lead to confidence in our judicial system in that domain. Trust in the judicial system in this domain will lead to more investment in the knowledge economy. So much for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10919	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10920	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, SPO and DHSS have come very seriously to the analysis of this law, aware of the facts discussed and respected previous colleagues, that this is a very important law on legal security and protection of intellectual property, as disputes of this kind are very common. Disputes are often with an international legal element. What is the assessment of all the parliamentary groups I would agree with, it seems to us that our courts are not sufficiently prepared for the conduct of disputes of this kind. For these very reasons, the SPO in the past government, in an argument of strong support for the adoption of the Law on the Judicial Academy, spoke among other things about the need for specialisation of courts to protect intellectual property, not only for the sake of civil and legal security of intellectual property makers, but also for attracting foreign investors and general legal certainty. Let's not forget, whoever has a healthy capital, if he wants to invest it somewhere, he'll invest where his capital is safe, protected from all sides and, among other things, protected from intellectual property. In addition to what was happening at the time of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which first passed the Law on the Protection of Marks, i.e. Signs of Origin and from that period date to many brands that are still active in economic life, which in our premises, which in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, such as "Working Three Hearts", "Kras", "Bambi", "Plasms", etc. Of course, the development of science and technology is increasingly focused on the protection of brands, i.e. signs of origin in terms of software industry. How important this is not only for the protection of intellectual property but also for all other business activities, it also proves that Microsoft seems to have paid me a great penalty for the monopoly position. Monopolies still exist in our country. These are not just our estimates, these are the evaluations and annual reports of the European Commission that we regularly receive. Today, if you say Facebook, if you say Google, if you say YouTube, if you say Mercedes, Opel, or if you mention any sign of Japanese or any other auto-industry, everyone will be right in front of their eyes, along with a car that often changes their shape or physical appearance and modernizes, but their eyes will mostly be marked, or sign. Not only because of the fact that for the sake of civil and legal protection of intellectual property creators, something that goes in this direction should be supported, but because of the enormous financial consequences that an intellectual property maker can afford in the event of insufficient judicial and legal protection costs much. Someone can be the creator of intellectual property, not have adequate civil-legal protection and can not only be left without intellectual property, but also without huge income. On the other hand, one whom we will call a colloquial intellectual property thief can be enriched without any invested intellectual and financial investment at the expense of stealing intellectual property. Because of that fact, I would agree with all the colleagues who talked, and that was our way of thinking, that it was necessary to maintain constant contacts at the level of our ministry, the Ministry of Justice and the Justice Academy, because we really don't have enough judges, not their mistake, but it's everywhere in the world like that. There are specialized departments, and they can't do this by judges from the civil law department, who have a wide range of matter to deal with and simply have to have specialized departments, and they're very few in our country today. There are very few qualified lawyers who can represent our and international companies in quality. There are very few of our lawyers who can appear in disputes with the international element in front of international arbitration. Often, our businessmen are in a position and are forced to hire lawyers from abroad to protect their intellectual property, because here we do not have enough people who specialize in this direction. What can produce certain dilemmas, and we will see it in the debate under the amendments, I think that it should be agreed or a little more taken into account in harmonising the provisions of this law with the Law on the Procedural Procedure, because there is a certain imbalance. It is certain that the case-law in this regard may also do its utmost in terms of urgency, both as regards the suspension of the proceedings, and as regards the adoption of a provisional measure. To me as someone with a rich experience on that side, I would always raise my own dilemma about making a business measure, no matter who asks for a temporary measure – either a creator of intellectual property or a thief. Imagine a thief of intellectual property who submits part of the documentation that goes in his favor, without hearing the other side, which is the basis right. The court only submits evidence to us on one side, and there is no counterargumentation and brings a temporary measure, and on the other hand, a company that is in total expansion on our market or on the world market, literally, can wrap it in black. I think that precisely because of the sensitivity of the topic, because of the high value of the dispute, because intellectual property in the countries of the world, in EU countries has been raised to a pedestal, to the highest possible level, and in this part I cannot agree with my colleagues from the DSS that we should not accept in this sense the EU directive, because the EU directives are better than our normative, regardless of what is bad, which was coming to us from the International Community, and this concerns, above all, the decisions of the UN Court of Justice, and that is because we have not understood much of what is happening in Europe and the world of the 1990s. It's a price paid by those who have been defeated in their politics. We don't like SPO-DHSS as national parties, which is the case, but that's the case. Japan was defeated in World War II, they did not apply for damages for the victims of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and there everyone - both newborn babies and the oldest, and that is the price paid by those who were defeated in the wars and who thought they were stronger and smarter than the whole world, and often their policy was at a great distance with the whole world. What we are talking about, the protection of intellectual property, it is in the world and developed EU countries indeed at the highest level. We had a case just a few years ago, and we're seeing it on the streets of Belgrade today, so you can buy intellectual property, i.e. copies in black at several locations in the city, without talking about a period of the 1990s when you were in front of the SKC or the Student Drama Theatre, along the Duke of Michael, you could buy anything and everything, as far as intellectual property is concerned on the black market and what is unimaginable in developed, normal and orderly countries. For all these reasons I have talked about, and for the sake of civil and legal certainty, those who operate in our country, for civil and legal certainty and economic security and potential investors, the SPO will support these and similar proposals in line with its beliefs and beliefs. Minister, don't mind me, I just asked a parliamentary question and I won't use it for more than half a minute. It is not clear to me as an MP coming from Kragujevac, but I will wait for the ministry's written reply, which is why it has been delayed for almost two years with the start of the construction of a stem cell bank in Kragujevac? It is a different topic, but it is also very important for our economy, and for the health of our population, and for the economy of our country, and for every citizen of this country. So I would ask, for the importance of the topic, because I hear informally from all sides that there are strong interests, a Belgrade lobby which, whether or not I don't know it, is opposed to it, because this inherited state of centralisation in which the rest of Serbia sees itself as a hunting ground may have echoes in this part as well. I'm not saying it is, but since all the conditions are designed to build a stem cell bank, it's not clear to anyone, to ask anyone now, why isn't it done? Without any euphoria and with very rational reasons and a good argument, the SPO will support this law. In the debate on amendments, since we have looked at the amendments of the other parliamentary groups, we will see what your reaction to the amendments will be to the amendments tabled. Believe that under the amendments we too will have something to say, in our best interest, that in the final version we will pass a law that will benefit our citizens, but also those potential investors and the legal certainty of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10921	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10922	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the law on amendments and additions to the Marks Act. This is a very important law in an area that is regulated and clearly already from the text itself and matter itself, and it was seen from these discussions that we had here in principle, that this is not a matter that is interesting in some narrow political sense. It's not a political topic, it's a subject that's very important in what's an attraction, in what's the protection of intellectual property and material property, in what's normal in creating such conditions in the country and in terms of communication with other countries, to create normal conditions of communication between goods, exchange of knowledge, and that there's one arrangement of such communication that will make our country credible so that it can monitor and regulate those relationships that are regulated in the world in one valid way. I am pleased to have high agreement on these issues, where perhaps in indications we can see that there is a position and opposition, that we are all aware of the importance of one such law and that this law will certainly be passed with a good majority of votes and certainly that the SPS will vote in favour of this law. I would like to give a brief review and a few findings on behalf of the SPS starting with the fact that this law was passed in December, that the applicable law is broadly in line with all relevant EU rules, as well as with the solutions set out in the IPR Agreement. However, during the application of the applicable law, as always happens in other cases when it comes to other laws, as well as during the application of the applicable Marks Act in practice, certain shortcomings, certain ambiguities that needed to be corrected by these amendments and additions, and I think it was done, at least according to this proposal, with considerable success. It will certainly be done in a better way by looking at the amendments attached. Some of the provisions of the EU directives governing the fields of trade law have not been introduced into the current applicable law. When we speak and EU directives, this should not be taken literally into account in the sense that the directives on these issues are some dictatorships, roughly speaking, or orders on how we should handle this matter. The EU directives on these issues are quite different and it is in fact one normative detailed consideration of the regulation of this topic, of this substance which would be valid and which is primarily valid for EU countries, as well as for all others who claim to have a higher or higher degree of integration in the international system. In this context, it is important to adopt and very important to adopt such directives, because the legislative corrections and improvement of the text of laws that would be in line with these directives create a better assumption of better communication and exchange with the international community and especially with members of the international community. The amendments and additions to this law remove certain terminologyal inaccuracies which have made it difficult to interpret the law and already in that first article, in fact, already in the fourth member of the applicable law, we have an additional definition of the brand where it is cumulatively demonstrated that the stamp must be shown in some way graphically, and the second condition is that it is suitable for the distinction of goods and services. It is very important that this law also deals with the issue of legal protection of the stamps, which is very important and gives security in communications, in exchanges, in trade and everything else, because the abuse of stamps does not only abuse intellectual property but it also seems a great material damage to those who own the stamp and which marks certain goods or services. In order to bring the general public closer to the concept of the stamp, it is best to explain that the trade mark is a legal remedy or a legally protected sign for the distinction of goods or services of one natural or legal person from the same or similar natural or legal person. That's very significant. This is where we mentioned the stamps that have already gained the status of famous stamps and which are very significant and on such examples we understand the importance of all of this. Let's imagine if the Coca-Cola brand were removed and one such commodity in the same quality appeared on the market in another package with another label with another sign, etc., what would that mean in that economic and financial sense for the company that owns this. That is why it is necessary to compare our legislation to the highest possible standards, directives, rules and norms that apply today in the world, because in the ultimate line, the better we do it will be more capable and interesting for such exchange with other countries in the environment. This definition of the stamp explains the importance of stamps that protect the signs by which the goods or services are known and, in fact, the stamp sends a strong message or association on what is offered. Only that sign at one point sends a multiple message and association and psychological echo, if you will, as some would say, about smell and taste and everything feels through it. It's enough for once just to say a word that has the meaning of that stamp. It is visual enough to look at such a sign and one complex picture is created in the consciousness of man with all the references of the goods or services offered. We in the SPS think that we should do something in this direction to protect the rights of the bearers and everything that arises in this subject, and which may be the subject of a civil and legal dispute the next day, that certainly some judges or courts, etc. They certainly specialize. This is really not naive matter, a naive question, and how much subtlety and complexity there is in what the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is, where we have many questions to pay attention to and need to be a good knower of such a substance in order to be judged, so much so here on the other side, is not on the other side, but also this, in some ways, is connected to this previous law, but in another level, another dimension. This should certainly be considered when it comes to the specialisation of some courts that would deal with these issues. I don't want any longer in this principled review of amendments and additions to the Marks Act. What I'm saying is that the SPS absolutely understands the importance of such a law. We look forward to the fact that we have a high degree of consent in this House on the importance of this law. The SPS will vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10923	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) In that case, we move on to the speaker list according to the application for word. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10924	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, given that my colleague Miletić Mihajlović has already pointed out that the SPS will clearly, clearly and unequivocally support this bill on amendments and additions to the Marks Act, I will try to make all of this, which my previous colleagues have elaborated and, in some way, pointed to well-intentioned initiatives in which it is necessary to look at all the qualities and shortcomings of this law, systematise everything that is said and what I believe should be pointed out in this law. I'll start by defining the stamps, and then on and on. Given that the law has prescribed that there are two preconditions for defining, one is that the sign must be graphically predictable, i.e. it must be presented, and the other is to be suitable for the distinction of goods. This second condition has special weight and special significance. Why? Because similarity implies the diversity of goods, i.e. services in transport, and that diversity is the essential function of the stamp. By defining the mark, we allow, not only more effective trademark protection, but we allow that protection to be carried out in court proceedings and courts in an efficient way, because the courts through such definition and such legislation will be able to identify those situations in which the protection of the mark is inevitably provided and where the court provides that protection to the court. What is important to point out is that the proposed law defines which means in no way can I enjoy protection. That's the so-called. Negative selection. I absolutely support the law here, and I think it's a qualitative change, because in this way the protection of the stamp is achieved in a comprehensive and precise way. The next qualitative change in the law is to make it impossible to give protection to a sign with the so-called. the descriptions and, in this direction, by the legislator, the person who proposed the law, the Proposer, provided the reasons why the descriptive characteristics of the product cannot fall under the regulation and, in particular, the brand protection system. The next and new quality of the law is the possibility of protecting the stamp with explicit written consent, not only the bearer of the earlier stamp, but also the holder of another earlier right, which includes copyright, industrial property rights, industrial design rights, patent rights, etc. In any case, this legal formulation and the legal provision achieves something that has not been regulated by law, which is that all those bearers of the right of trade have protection and should enjoy protection, because they are all equal under the law, at least in this law, as regards the exercise of rights and the protection of rights. What I think, as a man who deals with the profession, so rightly, is, in my opinion, the most qualitative change in terms of the previous law, or so far, the existing law, which is party-processing equality in the process of protecting the stamps from the institution. In the opening part, the minister explained, I will only remind that according to these provisions, only natural and legal persons, the only persons who do not have a seat and residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can be represented, or must be represented by representatives registered in the register that is prescribed for that purpose, so in the competent register, or by lawyers. All other parties and natural persons, who have their headquarters or residence or the headquarters of their units, facilities, business units in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, may, if they meet the conditions of their business capacity, represent themselves in an appropriate procedure. Finally, what this law implies is a clearer definition and regulation of court proceedings. I will not fully agree with my colleagues who pointed out what I think is very important in court proceedings, where civil protection is provided. Namely, I'm not prone, in any case, to the conclusion that our courts are not closely specialised in this area. I will remind you that the case law indicates that there are a large number of disputes before the courts to protect the stamps. I will ask for special attention and special respect and respect for the courts when we talk about tight specialization. I have no doubt that the specialisation of courts in this direction should exist, such as family law specialisation, in the area of juvenile delinquency, in some other areas that have not been courted enough and where judges have not been sufficiently educated. Given that the judges have received certificates, both from family law, underage delinquency and some other legal norms, in any case and here, and there should be a possibility that the judge's close specialization should be brought to education. We can't, in any case, place a burden on the judges that they have no experience in this area. On the contrary, it is before the courts, and my own experience suggests that too many cases, where judicial protection is exercised, are the rights which involve the legal interest of the prosecutor to protect the stamps. Mr. Minister, I would like to ask that a very well-intentioned suggestion be well considered, and that's what my colleague Chikiriz here has imposed as a matter of thought. In order not to be brought into colluding the Law on Procedural Procedures and the Marks Act, I would ask that, in the course of the amendment and the addition of the Law on the Procedural Procedure or the new Law on the Procedural Procedure, whose adoption comes in the near future, and that law is expected in the assembly procedure, that this procedural - legal part relating to the action, the application of the action on a provisional basis, and everything else that implies procedural action, be implemented in the Law on a litigation procedure. Otherwise, we will find ourselves in a situation where the Law on the Procedural Procedure contains everything that is procedurally to be contained, but does not contain what the Marks Act contains. In this way, they would tie their hands to judges who are obliged to strictly apply the Law on Prosecution in procedural proceedings. How will they apply it if what is contained in the Marks Act does not exist in the Law of Prosecution. On the other hand, it is good that this material and legal part of the Marks Act clearly indicates in a sufficiently clear way which are the right and who are the holders of these rights, i.e. who can be legitimate in the process, with a request to protect its right. Who has this party ID that we lawyers call actoric function or prosecutorial function? It is good here that, finally, in this material and legal corps, it is defined that, in addition to the property damage, there is a right to non-imaginative damage. Why? Because if nowhere else, then morale and mental pain are deeply hurt anyone who is the author of the mark that needs to be protected. From that point of view, I think it's a very good and qualitative solution to this law, but unless there's a compatibility between the Marks Act and the Legal Procedure Act, we're going to have a lot of problems. I therefore believe that this law should define that too clearly, i.e. to be predetermined through the adoption of the Law on Procedural Procedure, this phenomenon that I point out, which, doubtless I am sure, could be a problem, and if there is a need for amendments to this part of the Law, or the Marks Act, I think these amendments should be considered and respected, so that we do not, as was the case with the Law on Public Enterprises, where we failed to introduce a very important provision which is now causing huge problems to local self-government units. I'm not moving away from the subject, I'm just trying to point out something that can be very problematic, and we've dropped that more units of local self-government of more cities and municipalities can start a public enterprise, there are a lot of them. These are now virtual enterprises, non-existent companies, have nothing to align with. So I would ask the government to take whatever it takes to get rid of it as quickly as possible. At the same time, at the end of this exhibition, I will support everything that through these provisions means one qualitatively new way of regulating the protection of the trademarks and what my esteemed colleague Miletic Mihajlovic said, it is indeed a great pleasure that all MP groups, recognising the importance and weight of all of this contained in the proposed law, have been defined to support this law, as will the SPS and it is a good thing that consensus on such important issues exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10925	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10926	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin with one of my impressions of 2009, when this law was passed. I remember today, four years after 2009, after the moment the law was being prepared, when I was reading the law, I remember my unpleasantness. To be very gentle, not to say he was completely illiterate, but the law was in great contrast to the current spelling of the Republic of Serbia. There was no question about the language of which the law was written, as it was yesterday or the day before, when we talked about the Ships Act. There you could ask that question. Here we were talking about the law being really in the spelling problem. I'll point out what the problems are. Somehow I had the impression that it was written according to your instructions, Mr. Minister, that professors would admit the answer to the students – Jovan Jovanovic Dragon written in a small letter. That's what my impression looked like. I like to say concrete things and facts, so I'll read it to you, just so you can see what it's all about. For example, it says - the competent authority will call in writing. It will not be written, but it will be called by a written authority, perhaps written or illiterate. Then he says this - the right transfer contract is drawn up in writing. No, the contract is drawn up in writing, but I don't know if it's going to be written or illiterate, it depends on who's going to write it. In Article 43. – that, without the written consent of the holder of the famous stamp, the other person will not be able to use the same or similar sign. Believe me, I deliberately cited three examples, so I didn't mean to find one, so I served it. I can read to you, from member to member, you have examples like this. I think this is just enough to support what I'm trying to say. I really think the laws that are passed in Serbia must first and foremost be written. We can still talk about whether they're good, whether they're effective, but first of all they have to be. I just can't imagine how bad the ministers felt when they passed this law at the government. Is it possible, Mr. Minister, that no one noticed what we noticed? That's why I was happy when I was in the argument, and I have to say that when I start reading the new law, I always read the explanation first, especially when it comes to changes and additions, you wrote the following in an explanation, and it made me very happy. He says that changes and additions are being made so that the solutions provided for by these amendments and supplements would aim to address primarily certain observed shortcomings. But illiteracy, she stayed. Either she wasn't spotted, or she wasn't seen as a lack. I don't want to sound, really, maliciously, I think you understand why I'm saying this, but we've also seen a flaw in the DSS, and we've seen it, so we've been very pedantically correcting, at least in these members where you've made your changes, what you've missed. I think you'll accept those amendments, because they really contribute to better text, but I'd like you to get into changes and additions, at least in this part, and what it says here. The law is big, it's very important, it's going to be read by people who don't just come from our country and they won't feel good when they see what we've written here. Another reason for making changes and supplementing is the confirmation of compliance with certain directives, which my colleague Donka Banovic spoke of, and this is, above all, about the 2004 Directive, 48 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which concerns the implementation of intellectual property rights, an area that is practically one legal area of the 21st century. I say that at the beginning of the 21st century, but I think it will really be an extremely important area in this century. The second Directive is 2008/95 on the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States in the field of trade marks and Article 4 which you have offered, amendments and additions, and how it relates exactly to compliance with this Directive. I don't think they're bad in that sense, and I think our colleagues totally misunderstood when we talked about it. The word "direct" and "I'm harmonising the law because of the directive, and I'm not harmonising it because of the need to fix the standards in my country and the laws in my country" is what bothers us. I have to say that certain amendments and additions really make sense and we can support them because they are quite fine, such as, say, Article 3, or former Article 10, in which you say this – any foreign, natural or legal person in the process before the competent authorities must appoint a representative who is registered in the register of representatives who run the competent authority or with a domestic lawyer. Of course, I don't know for what reasons it was brought in just like this, because it's perfectly logical that a full-time and business person, a person, can represent himself, that our laws predict, allow, and it's good that you've seen it. It was one of the amendments in 2009 that my parliamentary group submitted, not accepted, I am very glad that it was accepted today. I really must say that I like much less that you have adopted a directive of the World Trade Organisation which considers that certain provisions of the laws that you are now correcting and changing, say that these solutions lead to an unequal position of foreign persons and that it is favouring domestic persons. I've been very prepared to look at many of the laws that are being passed in this area in other countries. There's no serious country that doesn't favor domestic parties. I think it's much better for Serbia, especially at this time that we live in, and it lasts a long time as a difficult economic crisis, that it really starts to look at its citizens and those who in this country do something and contribute, to favor them, so let it sound that way. Simply, if they can do this much stronger and bigger countries than us and more prominently, in the sense that EU members are respected EU members, why can Serbia not work for its citizens? What the DSS cannot possibly accept in these amendments and additions is the question of the courts, or the directive that you give to courts and simply prescribe them procedures and threaten their independence and their independence. The courts in this country are still independent state bodies, independent state bodies. Their jurisdiction is prescribed by both the Constitution and other laws. It's simply impossible, it's said by really very respected lawyers and lawyers who I can trust, so they say it's impossible to prescribe by the Marks Act courts how they should do and what they should do to get justice. It's just not possible to do it with this law. I understand the intention you're doing this for. But we know, and that's where I agree with a lot of colleagues who have been saying that we don't have specialized courts. This is a very difficult and complicated area that touches not only domestic legislation, but also other countries' legislation, and in other countries this legislation is much more developed than with us. Your need, as I understand it, is that it is possible to have some disputes, and I will talk about one later, about this famous brand of Water Water, somehow solve them, lead them to the end. That's what our courts are most often unable to do, and then it would be good if it was a court specialization, especially because you only have a dozen people doing this kind of work at the MUP. What else is acceptable to us and what's wrong? What you have regulated in the current Article 5 paragraph 1 point 6 refers to the definition of so-called definition. deceitful signs. These are the signs that should lead customers, i.e. parties to the traffic procedure, into error. It's especially good that you've regulated it now, because especially older customers or those customers who are doing something fast are deluding by buying goods that they think are specific, like, now I've come to think of those Milk chocolates, with the exact same colors, with the exact same sign that only in detail appears on the market of other kinds of chocolates that, of course, are not the same. I also find it interesting to see the use of the water-water brand. That was just interesting to me for the reasons I cited when I was talking about courts. I have to quote a few things that are just an example of what we were talking about, about the need to specialize in courts. Citing, it's a statement from one newspaper of former "Loser" lawyers, says the water-water brand, a popular brand, as he says, has never been sold, nor has it been the subject of a purchase transaction between various customers, that it was only the owner of the stamp, that one of the customers, and that the relationship of the stamp hire ceased in 2009. He goes on to say – any use of the "water-water" brand without the consent of the owner of the brand is illegal. What you asked me was about the procedure. It is a process of eradicating the Trade Register, but it only serves to inform third parties and thus does not gain any rights or cease. The contract is the basis, he stopped existing, he was cancelled. The Waterwater Society has no rights anywhere in the world, and there is no clear legal understanding with us, it's a social problem. Of course, I have no intention of being anyone's lobbyist, nor representing either side. This is precisely for the simple reason, this is a great example of how complicated matter is, how sensitive the terrain is and how much it takes to get into the specialization of both judges and specialised courts so that all of this could be done and that, I said, intellectual property, as a truly complex area and a very important area in the 21st century, not only in Serbia, but also in the world, could be realized in Serbia. I also read this because I'd like to get an opinion, Mr. Minister, since you're an agent here at the government, about what I read. Now will the changes and additions to what you have stated, the jurisdiction of the courts, help resolve this issue, in fact, to correct what is being said here? What I am still interested in is the question - how far has Serbia arrived with the harmonisation and application of the law in the field of intellectual property protection, in EU regulations and in general in reducing piracy and counterfeiting, since Serbia has committed itself to reaching its level of protection in 2013 and to climbing to what level is it in the EU? I understand why you entered these changes and additions. I ask you very much to fix what I said, because it contributes to the image of all of us, both here and in the world. I'd like to get an answer to what I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10927	Next reported is MP Janko Veselinovic. He's not in the O.R. ) Next is Srdjan Milivojevic. He's not in the O.R. either. Marijan Rističević has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10928	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I won't be long. I've called for a discussion that I'm talking a little bit about agriculture as part of the Marks Act. Our disputes about ajvar with Slovenia are well known. Our disputes with plums with the Czech Republic, Italy and Germany are also known. So these are disputes where we have made the failure and allowed the stamp, or trade mark, to protect someone else, and that, as far as I know, is overcome by registering at the national level the Serbian plum market and the Serbian ajvar, in order to overcome that gap that we have made and allow others to register and protect our brand. As for our behaviour, this should be an example of Slovenia and Austria, which and how, unlike those of us who have easily left it to others, they dispute over the Kranian sausage. The Austrians are trying to prove that it's their brand, since the Krajina area was once in Austria. Therefore, food disputes are known. The Greeks and the Danes are arguing over cheese. I think they've been on trial for about 15 years with feta cheese. Greeks and Turks argue over bagels, while we mainly did not protect our domestic trade marks, so we did not protect our brands for years. Last year, the government, as I recall, singled out 24 million dinars to deal with this problem, but the international plan protected only four trade marks based on stamps, in only 27 countries, with 43 brands protected at national level, or 43 stamps on those brands. We have the most famous smuggling of foreign trade marks from China. So, they produce whatever goods you want, with any brand and import of such goods, they can produce consequences for our country, so that the authorities dealing with trademark protection must and how to coordinate their work with customs authorities in order to prevent this country from one day from being in a position that because of the failure and arrival of goods from China with trademarks, or stamps of foreign brands, we do not have to pay for damages. I witnessed from 2000 to 2004 that the Government at national level and the Institute of Intellectual Property wanted to allow the two sides of cigarettes to be registered as domestic and that registration was even done and at the last minute we managed to prevent them from making that failure, with the help of the federal government, to allow the production and transport of such products that belonged to those famous brands and to enjoy special protection as stamps, and this would require irreparable damage. The man who was involved in all this at the time, as the minister we were dealing with, today, as an opposition representative, was so keenly defending foreign trade marks and goods. Also known are the conflicts of "Samsung" and "Epla", and here it was mostly about Microsoft, etc. Microsoft is a billionaire who will give his billions to someone. We have a known businessman, I don't know how he's going to protect his brand, since he's become a billionaire selling fog. I'm afraid his trademark, in addition to being known as the president of the opposition party, will be the sign and seal of his goods will be the lamp of the nebula, since he mainly deals with the sale of fog and thus has gained billions, unlike Billy Gates, who gives his billions to those whom he did not armedly rob, but has found the strength to give it to the poor. The poor are just being kidnapped from us. I'm done with this, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10929	Thank you. Janko Veselinović joined us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10930	I didn't expect this topic today to occupy so little attention. I believe that intellectual property, including the protection of stamps, is a very important area. Why is it important to the citizens of Serbia? For the basic reason, for example, that last year, we had more exports, under the allegations of software than raspberries, as Mr Djelic said earlier. Of course, legal certainty for what we call intellectual property, protection of intellectual property is a primary, first-class interest of the Republic of Serbia as a state, and thus all its citizens, and especially people who end colleges and who could find jobs in Serbia, not that they have to look for it in the world, just in the field of software, in an area that is certainly an area of intellectual property, where a product that doesn't see with a naked eye, but which today is at the price and the world's largest businessmen and powers are right in this area, including the mention of Bill Gates. So, legal certainty in this area is important and we, respected ministers, as DS will support this law because it is in line with the achieved European values in this area. It follows European legislation. True, I am not quite sure that you had in mind the full European legislation that was somewhat complemented by some directives at the end of last year. Certainly, we should not forget the fact that last time we talked about amending and supplementing the Copyright Act, that the black market for intellectual property, copyright in the country of Serbia, and in Europe is bigger than the drug market. In that sense, the state must have more important attention. Serbia for the first time surpassed the export of its knowledge of a traditional agricultural culture. The previous government invested about 400m euros in scientific, technological parks. It is certainly a good thing that you as a minister and in this government continued with these programs. Unfortunately, investing in science is not in the extent that we were satisfied with, and we have a serious problem with this government and the fact that you failed, probably, to cope, I do not believe you had a good intention, with greater participation of science in the overall budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is certainly important that what is the subject of this law, branding, protection of signs, especially in the area of the food industry, and it is certainly important that those who want to protect their brand, and manufacturers are from Serbia to do so in one quality way and that they can enjoy that protection. But it is certainly important that we be a predictable market for all those who perform with us, to know that their mark in which they have invested science, knowledge and experience and all that follows, that it will be protected by the world's greatest standards, according to EU standards in this case. I'm not quite sure, Your Honor, that Serbia's doctrine is clearly defined enough to protect the usual words, the terms that are in everyday use. There are a lot of abuses with us, and I'm not quite sure that this law on changes and additions has solved it to the end. I am not sure that there will be a lot of disputes in this area in the coming period and that it will not confuse and ultimately damage citizens, because if they buy a product that, in their name, is a trade mark, or a trade mark has water or bread, in some ways it gives a higher position to that product, a higher profit, greater competitiveness on the market, and ultimately does not mean that this product is better, bacteriologically correct or something quite third. In that sense, I believe that the state had to intervene in this area in a more significant way, because it is an area that no one but the state will protect. These are not bond relations, it is not a question that will solve competitors on the market by suing someone who threatens the market in such a way that it raises itself by protecting a stamp that has, in its name or in its name, a sign, a water or a bread or something like that, it will not be solved in a civil suit or protection in this way. I don't think we've reached that level of culture in this area, because we still feel that intellectual property is something abstract and that there's no effort, money and anything that follows the development of knowledge. It is certainly a serious question of the separation of the trademarks from the ownership of the company that uses it and the placing of the stamps in a special sphere, in a sphere that is independent of ownership of the company and thus avoiding ownership of the brand in an adequate way, because we have a fact, and that is already mentioned today, that certain stamps have become first protected in our country from the domestic company, then become stamps of foreign companies and have changed ownership of them. We think, as the DS, that these changes do not fully respect the extremely important changes in European legislation that occurred at the end of last year, above all, when it comes to deadlines, i.e. a significant reduction in the time limits and costs of patent protection, stamps on the single market. It doesn't matter, because protecting the brand and patent to the big company is not a serious expense. However, protect that same brand or patent by a small company or perhaps a company that has one employee, which may be the inventor, is a serious cost. In this regard, the state has no significant incentive to protect stamps, patents and other segments that are from intellectual property. Finally, now that the changes in the network of courts occur, I believe that what Mr Djelic pointed out, I support without any fence that we need. Not only do we need to have specialized courts, or courts that would deal with, among other things, the work of this complex topic, but we should have in the police, in the SUP specialized departments dealing with this kind of crime. That's what I was also talking about, Minister, last time I was talking about copyright protection. I think our police are well-trained, but they're not trained to deal with this crime which, as I said, exceeds some of the frameworks we can and suspect, because it's bordering on drug crime, and we don't have enough trained people who would definitely have to go through some courses in countries that this area has done better. I think we need to make bigger moves here. One more thing. The brand is something that must enjoy the protection of individuals and they must have secured mechanisms to protect these rights, but the damages are suffered by citizens. So if someone sells "Nike" shoes or "Adidas" shoes or "Puma" trainers or similar clothes or shoes or computer equipment, or something else, under someone else's trademark, that's how the citizens are damaged. In this law, there is no mechanism for the state to initiate proceedings in this respect. This has been reduced exclusively to the area of bonding legal relations. What makes me think this isn't compatible with comparative legislation? Because they have developed mechanisms in which economic operators better and better protect their rights. So it is not the same to have goods on the Serbian market and on the German market. They must have a much better network of protection and competent companies, or qualified companies, law offices that protect their brands. We're on our own here. Our citizens when buying these products don't know whether they buy originals or buy pale copies. In the end, it may not be your topic, but I think it is an area between your ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture. We talked about the convention these days, or it's a ratification of an agreement on genetic resources. We opened that topic in one I would say a very modest way, not knowing until the end of the facts that are on the ground. We've been consulting with the competent scientific institutes these days. They said that the genetic divergence that exists in our country, so the diversity that exists in Serbia regarding the genetic potential of plants is something that is the natural resource of the Republic of Serbia. In this case, the ratification of such an agreement, Minister, would mean that you would make our resources available without any compensation to other companies in the world. Some opposition MPs have mentioned the issue these days, and I think we should study again whether the ratification of the treaty would be in favour of Serbia, or whether it would be permanently damaged by the Republic of Serbia. It is not burning to point out that for ten years the agreement has stood unrealized for these very reasons, and unfortunately nothing has changed in the area. In the end, we act as a responsible opposition. The Democratic Party, as always, will support a quality law, regardless of these shortcomings. We will not act as an opposition in the previous period, that they will vote against all laws that are on the agenda, because it is primarily in our interest for Serbian citizens to get quality legislation, to apply this legislation in practice. In this regard, I believe that in the coming period we must take more care of the application of the law and the fact that ministers appear before the committees and talk about how the laws are applied. In voting day, we will support this law, and I ask you to respect our remarks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10931	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I would like to ask the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does Minister Obradovic want the word? Yeah. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10932	Thank you. I would like to thank all the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia who participated in today's debate, as everyone has highlighted the importance of adopting this law, i.e. amending and supplementing this law and speaking in their own way about the importance of the law. There were various reminders and data and historical character and educational character. I have to say, it's a good thing there's a consensus on the need to pass this law. What could also be heard as the common opinion of most speakers, today it is necessary to foresee the possibility of a special specialised court dealing with issues in the area when establishing a network of courts. I want to tell you that we in the ministry, as we have done before, will present these advices and proposals for the judiciary to counterpart Selakovic, this proposal concerning the police training of the interior minister. I must tell you that we have now included representatives of the Ministry of the Interior in the preparation of amendments and the addition of the Law on Special Authorisations on the Protection of Intellectual Property. Since several speakers have mentioned certain court disputes to illustrate the importance of this law, no offense, but we will leave these questions to the courts. Let them handle it because they are independent in making decisions. The amendments we have received will be studied in detail and adopted by all those who are possible, whether they are terms, whether they are amendments concerning the content of this law. As far as the questions of colleagues of Veselinovic concerning genetic material are concerned, it is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, but in any case I will pass it on to my colleague Knezevic and other colleagues involved in this topic. I want to thank again for this debate and for promoting the importance of this law for the legal and economic environment of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10933	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We move to the next item of the agenda, and this is a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law attesting the Consular Convention between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Special Administrative Region of Macao of the People's Republic of China on the Interrelation of Visas, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on the operation of paid jobs by members of the family of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff of their diplomatic and consular representativeships, Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Namibia on Co-operation in the area of defence and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Provisional Law on Obligation of Obligation. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the occasion of a joint single search on the proposals of the laws referred to in points 7, 8, 9, 10 and 15 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of the promoter, Aleksandr Vukic, First Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Defence, Ivan Mrkic, Foreign Minister, Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Economy, Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration, I have called for the members to attend and: Vera Mavrić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ivica Kotic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Shani Dermah, Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs, Miroslav Jovanovic, Assistant Minister of Defence, Zoran Markovic, Secretary General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Natas Kalezić, Head of the Department of Foreign Affairs, Colonel Ljubomir Nikolić, Head of Foreign Affairs of the Ministry of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Public Affairs of the Government of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Croatia. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on 7, 8, 9, 10 and 15 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you to comply with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. About the time distribution you got in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups if they have not already done so to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 170a of Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Consular Convention between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Special Administrative Region Macao of the People's Republic of China on the Interrelation of Visas, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on the conduct of paid business by members of the family of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff of their diplomatic and consular representativeships, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Namibia in cooperation in the field of defence and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol on the Provision of Obligation of Obligation. Do they want the word of the promoter's representatives? Yeah. Minister Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10934	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. You have before you a bill to confirm the Consular Convention between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. It should be noted that the Consular Convention between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro was signed in Belgrade on 14 June 2012 by the foreign ministers of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. During a ministerial meeting of procedural co-operation in Southeast Europe. The purpose of the conclusion of this Consular Convention is based on the fact that, since its independence in the area of consular relations, there are no significant qualitative shifts, as well as on the willingness shown by both parties to regulate each other's problems with regard to which the Consular Convention applies. The mutual assessment is that the conclusion of this Convention was a significant step in the two countries' overall relations. Given the numerous status problems facing citizens of the Republic of Serbia at a permanent stay in Montenegro, co-operation on the consular plan is becoming more and more important. Legal co-operation between the two countries is very extensive, especially after the conclusion of a full set of contracts in the area of international legal co-operation, international legal assistance from 2009 and is taking place in all forms of international legal assistance both in criminal and civil matters. Co-operation between judicial authorities, between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, is at the highest possible level in the region and serves as an example of establishing co-operation between the judicial authorities of the Republic of Serbia with all other countries in the region. To improve consular relations, during consular consultations between the Serbian-Montenegro Ministry of Foreign Affairs, held on 15 October and 7 December 2009, as well as on subsequent diplomatic contacts, the text of the Consulate Convention between the two countries was agreed. This Convention shall be fully established and adapted to the provisions of the Vienna Convention on consular relations. All basic consular legal institutes are contained as a premise for the smooth conduct of consular relations. In addition to defining the rights and obligations of the state of reception and the state of appointment, the status issues of consular officials and consular officers, detailed consular protection and handling in the event of death, physical injury or significant material damage to the citizens of the State of appointment, taking measures to protect the legacy in the case of the resolution of freedom, delivery of judicial and non-judicial acts, issuing travel documents, visas alike. So far, consular conventions have been concluded by the Republic of Serbia with countries of the region between Serbia and Croatia, BiH and Macedonia, and Serbia is a signator of a total of 20 consular conventions. There is also a bill before you to confirm the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Special Administrative Region Macao of the People's Republic of China on the visa waiver. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Special Administrative Region of Macao on mutual visa waiver was signed on 28 February 2012. This Agreement excludes citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Special Administrative Region of Macao, holders of valid travel documents from obtaining visas for the purpose of entering the territory of the other Contracting Party, for a visit or stay for no longer than 90 days during the 180-day period from the date of first entry. Persons intending to stay longer than 90 days from the date of their first entry or to work, i.e. to engage in their profession or to study, should obtain prior authorisation. The conclusion of the Agreement, which abolishes visas for the citizens of the two countries, represents a significant step towards creating the most favourable conditions for further improving political relations and versatile co-operation in economic, cultural, scientific and other areas of importance and interest for both countries. In particular, it should be borne in mind that the People's Republic of China is a priority political and leading economic partner of the Republic of Serbia in the Asian continent. The special Administrative Region of Macao as an integral part of the People's Republic of China and as the headquarters of very significant business activities, is of great interest to the Republic of Serbia and visa waiver is an expression of high mutual respect and trust that exists between the two countries. This agreement with the Special Administrative Region Macao of the People's Republic of China complies with all the provisions of the visa waiver type agreements and this agreement constitutes a continuation of the start of the visa liberalisation process with those countries outside the EU, for which there is a concrete interest in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the expansion of the circle of those countries. You also have before you a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on the conduct of paid jobs of family members of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff, their diplomatic and consular representations. The agreement between the two countries on the work of paid members of families of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff, their diplomatic and consular representations, was signed in Belgrade on 8 October 2012, in the original Serbian, Spanish and English languages. When it comes to the purpose of signing this contract, it should be said that agreements on the employment of members of the families of staff of diplomatic and consular offices between the two countries are achieved on a reciprocal basis. Employment shall be made possible with the compensation of members of the families of the diplomatic and other staff of the country of appointment, in accordance with the internal rules of the state of reception. For the last decade, the conclusion of this type of bilateral contract has become a common international legal practice. Many countries have observed that the modern way of life has led to an increasingly frequent phenomenon that spouses of members of staff of diplomatic consular offices refuse to leave their jobs, to follow their spouse abroad, leading the foreign ministry of these countries to address the problems of their employees and to initiate the conclusion of such contracts. The main objective of the contract is to preserve the normal family life of diplomatic and consular representatives and the integrity of their family by meeting the professional and economic needs of those families. The effects of the work of diplomatic and consular representatives acting in the conditions of separate families are undoubtedly less than those that function in the environment of the arranged family opportunities when the family is gathered in the place of service. The second purpose of these agreements is to limit the privileges and immunities mentioned in that circle of persons in the scope of which they are related to the performance of paid activities, which would otherwise belong to them under the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 18 April 1961 and the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 24 April 1963. Namely, these persons will not enjoy immunity from civil and administrative proceedings concerning all issues arising from such a fundamental working relationship, which they would enjoy under these conventions. The agreement does not deny immunity from criminal justice, which family members enjoy under those conventions, but obliges the State by appointing to seriously consider any written request submitted by the State for the refusal of this immunity. On the basis of this Agreement, members of the family of the staff of the diplomatic and consular office of the State of designation, employees in the State of reception fall under the social security regime of the State of reception, in relation to all matters concerning its employment in that State and are obliged to pay all income taxes in the State resulting from the work carried out in accordance with the agreement. The Republic of Serbia has so far signed this agreement with eight other countries, with Canada in 2004, with the United States in 2006, the Netherlands in 2010, Spain, Belgium also in 2010, Argentina in 2012, as well as with Israel and Slovenia in the same year 2012, of which agreements with Canada, the United States, the Netherlands and Spain are in force. With Albania, Macedonia, Portugal, Turkey, Germany, Switzerland, Romania, Brazil and Australia, negotiations are under way to conclude the agreement. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Chairman, before you is the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Namibia on co-operation in the area of defence, a country with which Serbia has traditionally good relations. Namibia has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence and is seeking to preserve the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Bilateral military co-operation with Namibia at the time of the SFRY was extremely developed. The focus was on military-economic and military education co-operation, as well as on providing military assistance in the freeing war in Namibia. The SFRY provided significant material by means of an anti-colonial struggle, as well as after gaining independence. The mutual interest of both Serbia and Namibia is to establish a former level of co-operation. Confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the area of the National Assembly creates a legal basis for co-operation of defence ministries, as well as for all forms of co-operation in the area of defence, for which the parties are interested. The agreement contains tax-listed areas of co-operation, financial provisions, i.e. the way in which the costs incurred during its implementation, medical protection provisions, civil liability and the settlement of compensation requirements, as well as the way in which disputes are resolved. The Agreement shall determine the authorities responsible for its implementation, amendments and additions, as well as the way in which it enters into force. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I propose that the National Assembly ratify both this proposed agreement, namely to pass a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Namibia on co-operation in the area of defence, and the laws confirming the Consular Convention between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro, followed by a law confirming the Agreement on the Interruption of Visas between the Republic of Serbia and the Special Administrative Regions of the People's Republic of China, as well as a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on the operation of paid jobs of members of families of diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff of their diplomatic and consular offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10935	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Neven the Flowering. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10936	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, today we have several diplomatic agreements and several acts from the field of foreign policy on the agenda. I don't want to talk about them all, I don't want to take too much time. I will try to be brief and clear, and I will talk about that agreement, which I consider to be the most important instrument for the state interest of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Consular Convention between Serbia and Montenegro, which is the proposal for a law confirming the Consular Convention between Serbia and Montenegro. In the first place, it is necessary to say, and we heard it from the government's author, that this Consular Convention was signed by this government in June of last year, but it is fair to say that it was prepared by the government and it is good that we have continuity in our foreign policy, because serious states, if they want to be serious, must not wander in their foreign-political aspirations and it is certainly good that both the government and this government have somehow joined one act that is useful to the state interest of the Republic of Serbia. The government's signature of this Consular Convention shows that this government is capable and ready to promote relations in the region and negotiate with neighbouring countries, which leads to the prejudice of all those who accused this government of dangerous intentions towards any neighbouring country. We from the SDPS, according to our programme and orientation, put regional relations in a special place and think it is necessary to cultivate the best possible regional relations, because from this poverty and crisis we can all rise together only by regional co-operation and only by the best possible relations between countries in the region. Of course, in the first place, we need the state interest of the Republic of Serbia and, then, by respecting that state interest, we should try and establish the best possible relations with all neighbouring countries. Of course, it is not necessary to mention that this government and this ruling majority in parliament will by no means compromise the state interests of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. this government is ready, and so I interpret its foreign-political doctrine, to find the right measure between concern for the state interests of the Republic of Serbia and the need to have correct relations with neighbouring countries. Let me present one court of foreign policy as a man who has done this in a scientific way at the institute. Each country should have the best possible relationship with all neighbouring countries because it makes itself sustainable and stable, but each country should first take care of its own state interest, devote itself to it and not worry about other people's concerns. So, I interpret this convention as a product of the strategy, if you want our foreign policy strategy, which respects these two moments – firstly, concerns about the state interests of the Republic of Serbia and secondly, the desire to have correct relations with all neighbouring countries. In particular, as regards this draft law, it can be said in its concrete members that this is a typical diplomatic bilateral agreement, in this case it is a consular convention, and as we have already heard from the government's authorised proponent, this Convention is fully adapted to the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations and contains all conular law institutes that should contain one convention. So it defines the rights and obligations of all states signatories of this convention, in this case Serbia-Montenegro. Let me tell you why it is particularly important that Serbia signed this consular convention with Montenegro. Montenegro is one of those countries with which Serbia has both a common tradition and a tradition of community. I deliberately underline this, and the common tradition and tradition of community, and through this game of words I am trying to describe how important Montenegro is for Serbia as a state and how good it is that we just signed this consular convention with Montenegro. Serbia has the greatest interest in developing cultural, trade, economic and other relations with Montenegro, as we can freely say that rare countries that have been as close to Montenegro in history to Serbia before. Let me figure out the next one. This direct transmission is seen by many Serbian citizens, but I am sure that this TV broadcast is also seen by many citizens of Montenegro, who see Serbia as a very close country and who are interested in what is happening in it. In particular, we come up with one practical reason why it is particularly important that Serbia signed a consular convention with Montenegro. Montenegro is one of those countries where the largest number of Serbian citizens living outside the queen, outside Serbia's territory, and it is just good and useful for Serbia to have its consulates there. I say consulates on purpose, not consulates. At this point, there is only the General Consulate of the Republic of Serbia in Herceg Novi. I hope that Serbia, the Serbian government, the government of Montenegro will find a way to open another consulate. Serbia sought consulates both in Niksic and in the White Field. The arguments of Montenegro were that one consulate was enough, because Montenegro is so small that from every place in Montenegro, Malta, an hour or two can reach Herceg Novi, but that's not the point. It is said that Serbia has a consulate where citizens of Serbia live in Montenegro. In this sense, I want to apostrophe of the north of Montenegro, where it is particularly important for Serbia to open up a consulate in the future, whether it will be in the White Pole, in Pljevlja, in Beran, because of its interest, and not to interfere with some internal affairs in Montenegro, but to provide administrative and consular services to its citizens in Montenegro. The reasons are administrative and the reasons are not and cannot be in any expansion policy, because this government is aware that one pragmatic moderate policy should be led. Finally, the function of the Council of the Republic of Serbia in Montenegro is to provide these consulates with administrative services, not only in issuing certificates, passports, visas, various documents, but also in resolving the extreme life situation. For example, when some Serbian citizens in Montenegro get married, when someone, God forbids freedom, some Serbian citizen in Montenegro, when we have a situation of the death of a Serbian citizen in Montenegro, solving property issues and a number of other issues, which are of a life situation, which can be solved by a consulate close to those people, near the very citizens of Serbia in Montenegro. In particular, as regards this proposal for a law confirming the consular convention, it should be said that it is such that Serbia-Montenegro is both in favour of mutual benefit in its members. What we can especially point out is that he is in favour of Serbia's state interest. Let's say in Article 2. The draft law confirming the consular convention, or in Article 2 of the consular convention itself, states that Serbia is being elected, or the state of appointment, to open a consulate, or to peopleally put it, that state opening a consulate, chooses where it will be, and that state which is the consulate, it approves. Serbia also has the right to choose where it will be, again and again, its consulates in Montenegro, in the plural, since we now have one. I hope that Serbia-Montenegro will find a way to open another consulate, especially in the north of Montenegro, so that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be taken care of in the best possible way. Finally, I would like to repeat during a speech on this consular convention that Serbia is in the interest of being in the closest possible relationship with Montenegro, not because of some expansion policy and not because it would interfere with internal affairs in Montenegro, but from the simplest fact that a large number of its citizens live in Montenegro. When you look at the percentage of Montenegro's population and the percentage of Serbian citizens in it, then you see that there is not a country in the environment or anywhere where the percentage of Serbian citizens is so high, and that is why this issue is very important for our foreign policy. I would say that Montenegro as a state is very important to our foreign policy, I repeat again, not for some expansionist reasons, but for the reason that smart countries take care of their citizens. Finally, I don't want to owe any more and I don't want to use all the time available, I want to conclude that this convention shows that Serbia cares about its citizens living in other countries, in this case in Montenegro, and that it runs a policy that should be run by any state, a policy that takes care of its citizens, wherever they are. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10937	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10938	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is another opportunity for SPO – DHSS to express their political views on the international policy to be led by our country. We have often been quite lonely on Serbia's political scene regarding our relations with foreign policy. Let's be quite open, this country has been wandering a lot, especially between 1990 and 2000. In 2000, she slowly began to come to her senses. The proof that the state is becoming more serious is exactly what the distinguished Mr. Cvetićan said and he took away the thought that I want to repeat, that every serious state has done all that the previous government has done, which is right in the national and state interest, respects and continues that policy, and all it has to do is change that part of the policy that was wrong. We are traditionally due to language, cultural ties, origin, family relations, family relations, traditional and emotional and state-of-the-art and economic and certainly quite connected to Montenegro. However, there we also had one great stupidity in the post-2000 period, namely, after the declaration of independence of KIM. Of course, the DHSS – the SPO in its political action did everything and warned the Government of Slobodan Milosevic that the wrong policy would lead to this, and of course we did not want to be right then, however, the first countries to recognise the independence of KIM were precisely the world's largest forces and most important EU member states, such as Germany, France, Italy, Great Britain, etc. After recognising the independence of KIM, we have not expelled any ambassadors from these large and world-wide influential EU member states. However, we cancelled our hospitality to the ambassadors of Montenegro and Macedonia following their governments' decision to recognise KIM's independence, which we believe was an emotional bond but not a serious and rational state-of-the-art relationship. The response of then-Montenegro's prime minister was to guide Montenegro's state and national interests in making the decision. We have come to the breaking of one above all communist, titoistic prejudice in international legal relations, that international relations should be based on who loves you and who doesn't love you, so those who like you collectively and you collectively love them and you need to be with them in the best relations and vice versa. That's not true. History disproves us in that. When Russia in Sanstefan peace turned its back on Serbia, Serbia found protection with Bismarck. She often found protection in Austria, and often she had bad relations with Austria. In some other recent historical elements, she had better relations with Russia. All serious states in making such important decisions are guided by rational state interests and by no emotion. Emotions led us back in the 1990s. The Germans hate us, the Croats hate us. We're hated by Montenegrins. We're hated by Muslims. They hate us. They hate us, and in the end we are left alone that we cannot be alone, and that policy has led us to enter a war conflict with the greatest military force in the world since the world exists, with the NATO Pact. However, what is now happening especially in the period since 2000, new policies, new bridges, new foreign policy is acceptable for the SPO and DHSS. Remember, during the period when Montenegro led a campaign to separate from the SCG state union on Serbia's DHSS political scene, it led a similar campaign. However, the DHSS as our constructive coalition partner, and we did not run this kind of campaign, we were for the common state, led by some other motives, also by us very serious. If that is the majority will of the population, that does not mean that we should have bad relations in the future. This means that relations between the two countries that do not function satisfactorily can be even better if these countries live in separate countries, which has largely been demonstrated. We had quick visits from each other by the government of the two countries, the president of the states, and previous President Boris Tadic and the previous government maintained good relations at all levels with the governments and the president of Montenegro. This is what makes this government, and this is the policy that is absolutely acceptable with the SPO and DHSS population and where the country's economy and national security are best defended. Montenegro sees its future where Serbia sees it, sees it in the EU. Montenegro sees its future where the entire region sees it, sees it in NATO's pact membership. The SPO and DHSS again do not lead to emotion when making this kind of political decision. We do not have the dominant name of Serbia's bombing -- a merciful angel when thousands of innocent civilians were killed, when the country's infrastructure was destroyed. We believe that this was in a relationship with the lack of understanding of the international community of Serbia's position but also with our complete lack of understanding of what is happening in the world. We hope that Serbia will never again lead to such a wrong policy and pay itself the price of its wrong policy. What is important for this agreement between the Republic of Montenegro and the Republic of Montenegro is that this agreement will first and foremost resolve a series of status, life problems that burden citizens living in one or the other country and, above all, citizens of RS living in Montenegro and that travel documents, visas, deaths, physical injuries, damages, damages, and so on. to resolve the States Parties to this Convention in spirit with this Convention. As regards the visa waiver agreement with the Macao Special Administrative Unit, which is to be said that Macao 10 or 12 years ago was a kind of capital of Portugal, he is a relic of the former colonial empire of Portugal. Of course, this agreement will be of little importance, but in any case it is a good step and the foreign political move of our country and the administration region of Macao because of the fact that there are still citizens of Serbia travelling to Macao and vice versa. In any case, as well as the first agreement, this agreement facilitates the daily lives of citizens. As for all these agreements signed and ratified with several countries and negotiations are under way on signing and ratification with several other countries on the employment of members of diplomatic consular offices, namely the family of members of diplomatic consular offices, it is again resolving one of the important issues. I've often been in our embassies where a consul or an ambassador who doesn't have a family with him lives, and when you talk to that diplomat, you see that he's largely turned around, in addition to what his basic mission is, which is why he's at the embassy or the consulate, and he's obsessed with what's going on with family members who aren't with him at the consulate or the embassy. Surely this is one of the good ways to solve problems that burden diplomats Argentina and Serbia. As for the defence agreement between the RS and Namibia, regardless of the relationship between the two countries experienced its culmination and peak at the time when we were a member of the Unclassified Movement and whatever the SPO thought was the wrong policy, but perhaps in that time there was some kind of justification, we have nothing against this kind of agreement and sure that good relations should be maintained with everyone, especially if they are based on economic and military relations. What the minister mentioned was a relic of the past. He doesn't exist now and it's not our current policy. We imagined that we were some factor in the world and we needed to help the African countries in their colonial struggle. This may have its justification from the population of universal law and justice, but we turn the population as a national party to influential and significant countries in the world, and then we should have intensified our relationship in the world with important factors in the world. That our citizens knew this well also showed those events of the 1970s that still citizens of the former Yugoslavia remember as the golden period of Tito. In the era of the greatest popularity of Josip Broz Tito, he shared the surplus labour force in the then-Yugoslavia passports and then a kind of referendum took place in Yugoslavia – where it is better to live and where citizens see their own perspective. From across citizens who have gone beyond our country's borders no one has gone to a then communist paradise called the Soviet Union. No one went to China to make their professional and existential career. Rarely anyone who has left or almost none in any of the non-classified countries, but mostly 99% of the citizens then went to EU members, which means that even then the citizens were infallibly aware of where it is better to live and to realize their existence. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: What does this have to do with the topic? ) Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you, I am speaking to you for breaking the Rules of Procedure, me and my fellow MPs have never thrown anyone out of the parliamentary benches, nor will we ever do that. We respect every policy and every political attitude. I'd like you to remind the DS MPs who are acting rather out of control, and that's what they do all the time when we talk. If they have their own political stance, let them bring it out loud and clear, not that they are distracting me or anyone else, because they are on the European path as well as we are, but they also need to behave in Parliament. In voting day, we will support all these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10939	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10940	Thank you. I'm not from that political option that's on the European path. I'm a member of the DSS. At first, I must express regret that this ruling majority re-emerges certain laws in this agenda that have no touch points. The practice that existed in the past continues, although the party which is now the headquarters of the authorities has criticised it. I hope that goes away in the future. In my discussion, I'm going to talk about the law on confirming the protocol on the measure law in the area of maintenance. It is a protocol of private law brought under the auspices of the International Hague Economic Law Conference. So this name protocol is the name of a document that should be a functional link between the convention that was adopted in 2007. With this protocol, it should have a common objective, which is to promote this document, this act, which stands in the preamble to this proposal for a law on the applicable maintenance obligation. Many solutions, therefore, are both correct and favorable, and especially for sustained persons. Thus, and many legal norms embedded in this act are in favour of making it easier to make decisions on maintenance persons, especially in specific situations, cross-border and cross-border elements. This act that we are talking about today, this protocol is an independent protocol and is inclined to be joined by other countries that are not signatories to the Convention, which was signed in 2007. The difference between the Convention and this Act is that the Convention applies only to those countries which are signatories of the same act, while this Protocol has a form of erga omnes or to all, obliging it. that countries which are not signatories to this act, these conventions and countries which are signatories must comply with their legal legislation with this act. The trustee who initiates proceedings from a country that is not a signator of this act may expect all privileges and benefits of this act. The example works, if the father is from Austria and the mother from Serbia, and the child initiates a court case in Serbia, the Serbian court can accept Austrian or Serbian law. That's the applicable law. However, this act, in one correct and quality way, prescribes how to react in this way. I must point out that this protocol has qualitative provisions. For example, the height of the maintenance, which takes into account the height of the defendant's income, and then the demands of the supported person, makes one quality conclusion regarding the height of the maintenance. Also, this act is affecting the public order of signatories and non-signature countries, but is working in its scope. Serbia is a country that is the signator of this conference on private law as early as 2001. Serbia has adopted nine conventions based on recommendations from this conference. When we were in the SRJ or on our own, we had over nine conventions. One of the most important is the Convention on Child Protection, and it was supported by over 100 countries, either by the signatories of this conference, or by those who are not signatories. I hope that the main motive for adopting such a protocol, one act, first of all, is to help our citizens move out, because we all know that the old country of Yugoslavia has fallen apart, many Serbian citizens have gone to the countries of Western Europe, where they have acquired many acquaintances, married there, married, got families. This protocol should protect their interests. We've had a lot of migration lately. You know well that 30-32 thousand people move out of Serbia each year towards Western European countries with bread. They need this protocol to help them. This protocol is EU verifiers, 25 EU countries, except for the UK, Denmark and Ireland, and in order to activate it, another legal entity needs to ratify this protocol. Serbia is the first non-EU country to ratify the protocol. I hope, Mr. Minister, that after this verification of this protocol, we will pass one law on private law. I hope you will react, because this will be a clagworth for such a thing and you will react. We had promises from the previous government, and also from these governments. I can't say, it seemed, it was working on this, but the fact is that we don't have one quality law to process one of these things. I hope you will soon come to this House with one quality bill of law. In the end, I'd like to suggest a certain matter. Therefore, it explains that this law is passed in order to comply with EU law, with EU legislation. However, for us at the DSS, this law is passed because of the citizens of Serbia, and then because of the EU, because you know that the DSS wants to be politically neutral and for these reasons I am telling you that this law must be passed because of the citizens of Serbia, because of all those people who founded families in many other countries, and they went after bread with their stomachs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10941	Thank you. Mr. Kosanic, on what basis are you answering? (Djordje Kosanic, from the post: As an authorised representative. ) Please, the authorised representative is Vojislav Vujic. Therefore, I cannot give you my word, for you are not authorized. Here, we have it in writing. I'm sorry, but I can't violate the Rules of Procedure. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10942	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, we have here a series of ratifications to do, of which the vast majority deserves our absolute support, so I wouldn't spend too much of my words. Before that, I would like to apologize, on behalf of the DS parliamentary group, for the addition of the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group. That throw was neither deliberate nor coordinated, but it was an inappropriate reaction to some of the words that you said, because it wasn't just you who had the deed on ideological direction that others had, so you understand, that's no different. We do not share the same value courts related to World War II, but we do share them for the EU anyway. What the previous government has prepared through these ratifications that are now in front of us is certainly good and certainly took too long, certainly not enough and certainly it is better that Minister Mrkic was here. What is certain is that I would not say that the Convention with Montenegro is the crown of our diplomatic work and effort. It's just one segment, not irrelevant, and in any case DS supports everything here that's said by our colleagues, it's essential that we keep the best relations in the region with our neighbours. What is the purpose of a country's diplomacy and foreign policy if it can't do that? However, in order not to remain in the domain of political flossules and exceptional surfaces, we still need to get a little deeper into the essence. So, Serbia did ask for consulates to be opened and it has the right to do so under the Vienna Convention, but we were rejected except in the Herceg Novi case. The government has the possibility that in its contacts assessed by the highest marks, it is now trying to make Serbia truly get a consulate in northern Montenegro. Also, so that this Convention on consular protection would not be one piece of paper in which we, to be clear for the sake of Serbian citizens, provide consular protection to Montenegrin citizens abroad, and Serbian citizens, respected colleagues, are almost gone in Montenegro. You've made a little bit of a mistake, because Montenegro passed the Law on Citizenship which de facto makes it impossible. If you don't trust me, ask representatives of Serbian parties in Montenegro. Therefore, one of the topics of our government, the foreign minister, the president of the state, should be, according to us, how do you think most of the people in Serbia who declare themselves as Montenegrins, of course, can have Montenegro's citizenship, while at the same time Serbs in Montenegro are unable to get our citizenship without being taken away from them previously. Check it out. The consulate isn't just opening up to protect its citizens. It opens up and aims to speed up economic cultural ties and help our people in the region, and does not mean citizenship to our people. Just to be clear. Our government was trying to do it without success. In relations with Croatia too, a number of open issues have not been resolved. We can talk about what we want, the warming, the hugging, the encounters, the questions aren't solved. Ask the refugee associations, ask Mr. Linta, ask Atlagic, everyone will confirm what I'm saying. It doesn't matter who's in power. It's just a fact. We provide consular protection to the citizens of Montenegro, they are the mahogany of people who work on ships, they are the people in countries where Montenegro doesn't have an embassy, they are the people in countries where we don't even have an embassy, and that's it, so they don't mystify this whole thing, but to speak plain language because of the citizens, to understand what this is all about. Otherwise, I think that Serbia must take care of all our citizens, but also of our people in the environment, first by strengthening itself, its capacities, which will economically rise to its feet. That's why it bothers me when here in the wrong way, in a sense speaking words of a type – tito-Communist prejudice in international and legal relations. Minister, you're a lawyer, I'm a lawyer, there's a lot of lawyers in the O.R., I've never heard of anything like that. If we're going to talk about the prejudices of the titoistic, in international and legal relations, we can only see the most positive examples. I'm not sure that Mihajlovic's Chetnic ideology has made progress in international relations. I may be wrong, but that's a fact. I must, as a MP, always react when something so empty is used to spell, and as a lawyer, and, if you will, as a man who deals with diplomacy professionally. So we have here an agreement that allows our diplomats' spouses to do business, to work, to work in Argentina. It's a very important thing, you, Minister, have presented very effectively in which countries it has already been done, which is very good, but more importantly, you have presented those countries where it is done. I would only appeal to you and to the government to speed up with these efforts and to come up with a solution to this really big problem that burdens our entire diplomatic service. At the same time, I would also like to appeal to enable the health care of our diplomats at last. I would say this to Minister Mrkic, but unfortunately we don't have a chance to see him, because unfortunately, recently diplomats are dying and it's fast and it has to be solved, and then Minister Mrkic will come and tell us – we don't have the money. Then we'll go back to that budget story. Now we've done a great thing in Argentina, and imagine how many countries we haven't done and what's worst, we haven't done in the region. So the wives or spouses of our diplomats can't be employed in the region, in the countries where they serve. You say "reciprocity." We've given many the same right without getting in those countries and you know it's true. Then stick to the reciprocity until the end. Speaking of a consular convention with Montenegro with which we want the best possible relationship, it may not be the worst, when you are holding talks in Podgorica, telling the Montenegrin government that we are ready to develop the best relations, to provide consular protection for their citizens, but that if we would like Montenegro to pay rent for the building it uses for the embassy in Belgrade, for starters, or to pay at least 10% of what they haven't paid for over ten years. That's what you, as a government, can do. You can do it through the dipus. You can ask someone to pay for something they use in the Republic of Serbia, but since the Montenegrin side is not responding, they will not bring it up at any meeting with you, Mr. Minister, it is up to you, i.e. Minister Mrkic. So, teach the minister to vote for the right of the Republic of Serbia to be threatened with these drastically. Our government tried it, it didn't work. Why? I'll tell you why right away. Because the Montenegrin government says in these situations – you are corrupting relations with Montenegro. It's a trap you don't have to fall into. The struggle for the interests of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens has no price and no violations if something is legal, the law is implemented, in this case the lease agreement. I'm telling you this as a fellow lawyer, too. The unheard of thing is that in the middle of Belgrade you have a facility that is used for free. It's outrageous that it's nobody's property. Regulate that. It's a relationship story. The question of citizenship, that's the story of relationships. The issue of consulates is also the story of relationships. Try, get at least one consulate in the north of Montenegro, you'll have full support from DS, I'm sure of the other colleagues here. These are things that will help us understand each other better, to cooperate better, without interfering with any sovereign state's internal affairs. Let's not make foreign policy on fog, mystification and flossules that, unfortunately, in some cases, we've had to listen to for a few hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10943	Thank you. Mirko Chikiriz, on what grounds? (Mirko Chikiriz, from the scene: Replica, misread my presentation. I don't think he mentioned you, please. He did, but he didn't mention you personally, and neither did the party. You have no right to a replica. (Mirko Chikiriz, from the place: then according to the Rules of Procedure.) ) Here you go, then, according to the Rules of Procedure, but make sure it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10944	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll never abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think the dignity of the National Assembly has been violated because if I say something and I make an argument, then the wrong interpretation comes and therefore the wrong conclusion. I think you should have given me the right to a replica because all your colleagues have shown you, perhaps you haven't paid enough attention to what Mr. Stefanovic said. First of all, I want to say, I think it's in the interest of all the parliamentary groups, to accept the apology of the head of the DS parliamentary group. So they admitted that not only now, but also many times before, they acted inappropriately in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and I think this is good for everyone. If you'll excuse me, so I don't call back later, just in half a minute... (President: You didn't tell me which member he was. I said. (President: I didn't hear. Repeat, please. ) National Assembly dignity, Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10945	No, I won't let you. Thank you. I'm obliged to answer. The man advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So you, Mr. People's Messenger, also mentioned in your presentation and I didn't warn you. In his presentation, Mr Stefanovic also gave his view of all this without mentioning the names and I believe that he is not injured by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10946	Dear chairman, the issue of Serbian citizens' citizenship in Montenegro has been mentioned, a direct reference to my presentation and I would ask for a very short replica that will not take up much time. I think this is a matter of importance to discuss.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10947	Mr. Florist, please, I still have to be principled and consistent with all this. Also, in his presentation he didn't mention you personally, he didn't mention your party. (Neven Florist: I would ask you very briefly to consider this issue. ) Don't, please, I won't let you because then I know which way this discussion will go. (Jovan Palalic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Palalic, that's fine. Sign up again. Here you go. What member, just tell me?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10948	Article 106. I will take this opportunity to use the advertising of the violation of the Rules of Procedure and members of the Rules of Procedure, that we can only talk about the point of the agenda and that we do so in a way that will respect the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to take advantage of this opportunity to correctly interpret Mr. Borko Stefanovic, who spoke in his discussion on some issues about Serbian citizenship in Montenegro, to say that I did not think, and it is very important that we give each other a proper interpretation, in order for this discussion to have some purpose and for the citizens who are watching this to draw the right conclusions from this discussion. When I talked about Serbian citizens in Montenegro, I didn't mean those who feel like Serbs in Montenegro, and they have Montenegrin citizenship because Montenegro did not allow them to have dual citizenship, so that they would also have Serbian citizenship, I was talking about those who went from Serbia to Montenegro and only have Serbian citizenship. Unfortunately, there are plenty of them. Unfortunately, there are those because these people have recognised Montenegro's economic perspective, not Serbia. I believe that the fact that someone from Serbia went to Montenegro to work because he thinks they will have better conditions for themselves and their family there, for this country to be defeated. I thought that if Serbia had already left this country with bread in Montenegro, those people should be taken care of, I was only thinking about those people. Let me say one more thing in the end. (President: Don't, Mr. Florist.) ) (Disabled microphone: I agree that Serbia-Montenegro should work on it. I agree with Borislav Stefanovic about the consulate. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10949	Jovan Palalic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10950	Article 107(2) and Article 108 I think that, Mr. Chairman, you should have responded to the presentation of some MPs who here in the National Assembly were very insulting about one in Serbia's recognised resistance movement, about the Montenegrin resistance. Of course, the National Assembly has also adopted acts establishing the rights of both Montenegrins and partisans. These men fought for the freedom of this people. We are now witnessing that the remains of King Peter are being transferred to Serbia. We cannot talk about a large number of people fighting for freedom in the National Assembly. This is where their families are. The National Assembly has passed an act that equidists these two movements. Please, next time you put it like that, you say you're reacting.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10951	Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, I cannot be a hunter of your mistakes and abuses of the Rules of Procedure, and I am unable to break up at all times. You're all trying to get someone's vision of a particular problem to bring out. It is clear that during the discussion it is possible to express certain attitudes that some of you do not like. So I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, only if you ask us to plead in the voting day. You're looking. Okay. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? Olga Batic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10952	Dear Chairman, I find it very nice the way you handle these sessions and your authentic way of interpreting the Rules of Procedure. In that sense, I must say that you have injured a 27th member who I advertised because you are obliged to take care of dignity, style, as well as order of holding this session, which you have not done. You also give some of the People's Messengers the right to a replica, on the other hand, you do not give the other People's Messengers the right to a reply. You've injured Article 105, you've injured Article 106, you've injured Article 107, you've injured Article 108. On the subject of some MPs, you could have applied Article 108, so you could tell them what was planned for that member, which I also didn't do. Of course I'm asking to make this clear on the day of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10953	Thank you. In the day of the vote, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Atlagic, on what grounds? (Marco Atlagic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Marco Atlagic: Sorry, I was directly mentioned, by name and last name. Name and last name? Who mentioned you? I really don't remember that. (Marko Atlagic: Mr Stefanovic. Here you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10954	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. I'm getting an apology. (President: I apologize again. Thanks again. Mr. Chairman, General, member 104 has been injured. I am pleased that Mr Stefanovic is taking care of this discussion of the refugee, or exiled Serbs from Croatia. Mr. Stefanovic made a good point. I fully agree with his findings. But where do I disagree? I don't agree in this part of the last part. It is true that the previous governments did not take care enough of the exiled, or exiled population from Croatia. If this government does the same, Mr. Stefanovic, don't worry, we won't call it. But the facts that you have seen and I have seen in this assembly, that this government, on a proposal from our Assembly, has taken at least one step, and you have all heard that step. The exiled Serbs from Croatia received social security, if you did not know now informing you and exiled from Croatia, so double, to say what the "Official Messenger" said. I won't say it's a lot, but it's a first step. I believe that the second step is actually to accept the resolution that has been submitted, or agreed in the coalition agreement. So we don't want to protect anyone, but I want to say that for this short period we want to welcome what this government has done. If she does it in the future, we'll welcome the same thing, and if she doesn't, I'm sorry, we'll call anyone who doesn't stick to the coalition agreement. I'm glad you're showing interest in the exiled, or exiled population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10955	Borislav Stefanovic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10956	Based on the replica. I've been mentioned four times.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10957	You can reply to Mr. Atlagic because he mentioned you, the others didn't mention you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10958	Dear General, I've been mentioned before by three MPs by name, but it doesn't matter, I'll talk to you. So, first, the first step was not that important step you mentioned but was to gain citizenship from this country which Slobodan Milosevic did not want to give. So that's what we did first. We've done a number of other very positive things, some of which haven't been publicly exposed, some of which are. But all in all when you draw a line not enough. Not enough now, not enough then, and I'm afraid in the future. That's where you and I certainly agree, whether you say it or not. That's the first thing. Secondly, I didn't say anything against this movement or that movement. I have my position, my beliefs that are fully publicized, but the fact that I have to react when someone says that international legal relations can have an ideological omen in terms of titoism and communism. As impossible in the legal sense and in the political sense, it is so impossible that there is also a Chetnic international and legal ideology, as there can be no Chetical Fisheries or Chetnic Agriculture. So there was my reaction. I know everyone here will support it, care for these or those traditions, I mean, care for those who fought or those who didn't fight. As a matter of fact, I think it is good that sometimes in this congregation we can hear these differences because they in some ways improve relations in our society. What's safe is that we have our citizens in Montenegro. These citizens of ours, some went there to work, but their number, fortunately, because they went with their belly after bread, is less significant than the number of our people living in Montenegro. That's why I think it's much more important, if you will, that a lot of those who have left have gone to the coast, so Herceg Novi is already performing that function. But there is no protection in the north of Montenegro or any way to help where it may be most difficult in any way. Of course, according to the conventions and laws of the host country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10959	The word is Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10960	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it's very important for the public to make some political assessments. Yugoslavia's disintegration began largely by Serbia's guilt that it was not ready to understand what the Soviet Union meant, or the peaceful separation between Slovakia and the Czech Republic, the destruction of the Berlin Wall, and had no ear for what was happening in Europe. They wanted Belgrade dead Tito to wear a youth staff and first imposed sanctions on Slovenia with the fogging of the public that Slovenians would die hungry without our potatoes, beans, etc. Because collectively they don't like us. However, the highlight of this nonsense was in 1999 when they said there would be a third world war because we would be defended by the Russian brothers, the Chinese brothers, that the Russians would send S-2, 30,000 Kozaks, that everything would do to defend Kosovo and Metohija, and China and the United States then had an external trade of $132 billion and such a common interest that would not spoil because of 10 Yugoslavia and 10 Kosovo. When I was talking about that emotions cannot lead foreign policy, I was just thinking about these stupidities that were largely corrected after 2000, which are corrected by these agreements, and I reminded myself of some historical memories, and how the Kingdom of Yugoslavia had good hearing about international and legal relations, and that the government was in London, that the king was in London, that the king was buried in America, and that the Prime Minister of King Peter the Second had welcomed him in Belgrade the other day, which shows that they also slowly come to their senses and correct their delusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10961	The word has a Neven Florist.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10962	I thank you, Chairman, for the words you've given me. I have a short line for the esteemed Mr. Borko Stefanovic and in some ways I would like to give him credit because I think it's good when someone admits that he was wrong in terminology. I thank you for admitting that there are Serbian citizens in Montenegro. I think it's good that you think Serbia should take care of them, too. They're not just on the coast, they're all over the territory of Montenegro. I think it is good that we simply need to have a national consensus on this, that it cannot be an internal issue that is politicised that Serbia should open another consulate in Montenegro and that in the north. So, I came forward, in a way and happy that both the DS and all other parties in this assembly in one good, quality way understand the state interest of the Republic of Serbia, which just consists of Serbia getting another consulate in Montenegro. That's number one. Under number two, we should all work together because citizens chose us not to argue, argue or enter an endless series of replicas, to resolve the issue of citizenship with Montenegro so that all those who now have Montenegrin citizenship in Montenegro, and feel like Serbs, get the opportunity to get Serbian citizenship. In order to carry out this task, we do not need to take on termological differences, we do not need to engage in discussions that do not have their specific weight. I finally end this replica of myself in a way happy and satisfied that different parties have actually heard a very similar foreign-political strategy because parties, if they are serious, cannot have one improvised foreign-political strategy. I thank you for your attention and patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10963	The word is Borko Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10964	I'll be brief, really. Dear colleague, I have not admitted anything that is not known in the consular convention and in the Vienna conventions, if you will, and what is known through all the agreements and things that we as a state have done and what is known to anyone who has ever dealt with diplomacy, but you have said that consulates serve to protect our citizens four times, so I have corrected you, not you. So don't do that. I mean, if we're already using these things to brag about each other, that comment was unnecessary. I can understand that you tell someone else, but to say that when I tried really constructively to point out that consulates do not serve only for our citizens who in this case are drastically less than the people who declare themselves to be Serbs in Montenegro and because, if you want to be completely open, our government has launched an initiative to open these consulates, not because of those who are going to build swimming pools in Herceg Novi and Budva, to be absolutely clear, but because of those who live in northern Montenegro and who are often in a very unfavourable situation. That's what this is about. No, no, no, no, no. I know what I'm talking about, and you've been making adjustments because you may not have realized at the moment that you've made a mistake. In this case, this conversation is irrelevant. (President: Please do not address one another. The point is, you said the right thing. Why is there unity on this issue? Because this government has the full continuity of foreign policy, European policies, Kosovo policies and policies to fight organised crime. It's not because suddenly they realize it and it's not all of a sudden. It took them almost 20 years to figure it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10965	Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. ) We move on to a debate on the registered list. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10966	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, my discussion is only about one part of the set that is part of the agenda that we are discussing. In particular, I will discuss the proposal for a law confirming the Protocol on the applicable law on maintenance obligations. What seems important to me when it comes to this protocol and the law that we need to adopt is our complete unity and I think it is legal and legally political to say consensus on the validation of this law, it should not be doubted, because it is the interest of the Serbian state to achieve two objectives, and the first goal is to introduce into standardisation and at the same time the obligation of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. through this standardisation, to bring the national legislation into line gradually with EU legislation, at the same time to the extent that the Republic of Serbia needs to strive and to achieve, which is to fully integrate into the legal regulation of the EU. For this reason, I would first of all refer to something that stems from this protocol as crucial or with the greatest weight, which is that for the maintenance obligations, since we come from our domestic legislation, party legitimacy has a maintenance trustee and a maintenance debtor and a status or party legitimacy of creditors and in the party legitimacy of maintenance debtors can appear a child, a spouse, an out-of-marriage friend, regardless of marital status, may appear a parent, may appear a adoptor or adoptor. In all these party legislations, our domestic legislation has, we must admit, been quite limited in the sense that legal situations have arisen in which adequate legal protection could not be provided to anyone found in this party's legislation, particularly from the aspect of international and legal standards. That is why this protocol is necessary, and that is why it is our obligation to adopt this law confirming the protocol. What is the most affirmative right here in this protocol? It's the right of the usual trustee's residence. In this way, the highest degree of protection is provided, particularly judicial protection to the maintenance trustee, and since domestic legislation is on the pedestal of what implies a child's maintenance obligation, then it is both the humanistic principle and the legislative principle and every other principle that a child must indeed be given the highest degree of civil and legal protection, and in particular in a procedural and legal sense that implies adequate application of the rules through the applicable law. Therefore, the state representing the dominant place or place of residence or the residence of the child should at the same time provide its legislation with that legal certainty because it is its applicable law. However, there are certain specific exceptions and exceptions that I would not comment on because of the confusion and confusion of citizens. In any case, it should be pointed out that there is the possibility and choice of a measure of law. There's a possibility so-called. legal-protective mechanisms, especially in the case of persons with special needs. It's about people who have a disorder in psychophysical development. In that situation, the relevant right for those persons is the right by which they can achieve the highest degree of protection, no matter where they are. Also, specific protection is enjoyed by trustees whose legal interest is of such nature that they can be threatened at any place or in any way, except in a place where they believe that their legal interest can be achieved in full terms of words. So these are exceptions to so-called. the applicable right of habitual residence. This all implies argument or argument which is why we have to today and ultimately, the end of the obligation to adopt this law confirming this protocol. Finally, it should be pointed out that domestic legislation is quite largely limited in the interests of the child, there are a number of judicial disputes in terms of maintenance, rather limited in its affirmation. Therefore, by accepting European standards, by accepting legal regulations that include both the agreement and the protocols and the material rights of other countries, we raise the degree of protection of the child through the right to support or alimony either from parents or third parties who are in the blood or in the Tasbus family, to ensure that this type of obligation is to the greatest or to the best extent that the quality is fulfilled as a whole. It is precisely this protocol that achieves this, and it is precisely in the procedure prescribed by this protocol. Not to mention there's a so-called. the right to defend, that the trustee in cases of fraud, in cases where there is a risk of a maintenance obligation, has the right even to challenge the applicable law. So all this I pointed out clearly indicates to what extent is needed, and I said from the point of view of signing the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the obligations of the Republic of Serbia to adopt this law and the protocol. In any case, the SPS parliamentary group, I hope, along with all the other parliamentary groups, and I would like that to be realised, will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10967	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10968	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have one set of five draft laws and it is evident that we have unity in the assembly regarding the vote of these laws, i.e. support for the government's proposals. I would say something short, given that previous speakers have said much about the bill to confirm the consular convention between the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro. It is perfectly normal for each country to take care of its own interests, that is, the interests of its citizens, no matter what part of the world's territory they are in. It is so with representatives of our country, who, in the interest of all our peoples, that our people must implement a policy that will allow us to take care of our citizens. On this basis, the bill and the opening of consulates in neighbouring Montenegro also came under way. No matter what relations we had with Montenegro in the near past, it is evident that the new government, or the new government in Serbia, is trying to improve these relations. The testimony is also the recent meeting of the president of Serbia-Montenegro, where it is seen that there is an improvement in relations, as the president of Montenegro himself said. I hope, as in the end, like all citizens of Serbia, that in the future you will have much better relations, and that this bill will only help to achieve it. As regards the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on the conduct of paid jobs of family members, diplomatic, consular, administrative and technical staff, their diplomatic consular representatives, I agree that this is one law that will greatly improve the status of our representatives in other countries. In this case, it is Argentina, and I hope that soon such laws, or such agreements, will also be agreed with countries in the environment, as well as with many other countries. The draft law on the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Namibia on co-operation in the field of defence is one of the quality proposals of the law and I hope it will bring much to be good for both economic and defence co-operation with Namibia. After all, I remember that in the past we had many such agreements with many countries, and when I was at military service in Pula, I know that we had some pies from Sudan at the time. Through this agreement, co-operation can be achieved in the following areas: defence and security policy, defence planning, military-economic co-operation, military and scientific co-operation, military education and training, defence legislation, military medicine, military topography and cartography, peace, humanitarian and other similar operations, environmental protection within the framework of military facilities of social, sports and cultural activities, other areas of common interest agreed between the parties or their competent authorities. From what is presented in this Article 4, we see that we have a wide diapazone for future co-operation. In the end, let me say that the SNS will support these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10969	The word is by MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10970	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, Serbian citizens, SNS has no dilemma when it comes to supporting a full set of agreements and protocols, primarily because the SNS believes signing the agreement and the convention is a step ahead in creating good bilateral relations between Serbia and the countries signatories of conventions and agreements in creating friendly relations, as well as creating party relations, both with countries in the environment and with other countries. As for the confirmation of the Protocol on the Procedural Right of Maintenance, the SNS always speaks and argues that the interest of Serbian citizens is first. Accordingly, this protocol on maintenance rights is about the protection of our citizens and this is about protecting the most vulnerable part of it, which is the protection of children to support, i.e. the protection of children related to alimony, the protection of persons over the age of 18 who have a disorder in psychophysical development and who, for this reason, cannot best protect their rights and interests. I'm going to focus a little more on the maintenance protocol adopted in 2007. The European Union shall apply it from 18 June 2011, and in accordance with Article 72(1). The Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which was concluded with the European Community, the Republic of Serbia has pledged to bring its legal legislation in line with EU legal assets. It is from this fact that this protocol on the applicable right of maintenance is also emerging. The Protocol lays down common provisions on the applicable right of maintenance obligations arising from family relations, blood relations, marriages and matrimonial relations, including the obligation to support the child regardless of the marital status of his parents. Given that a colleague from the SPS Mr. Neđo Jovanovic spoke very carefully and exhaustively about this protocol, I would not only repeat myself to say that in the interest of protection, the best interests of children and of all its citizens, the SNS will support in the voting day a complete set of laws as well as this protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10971	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10972	Dear ladies and gentlemen, for the Roma Party and for me, as a member of the SNS Parliament Club, these laws that are now on the agenda are in any case a confirmation of the good, proper policy run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, I would like to point out that support for such a claim and for the adoption of such laws can be found, both in a set of arguments that speak of historical, mostly good relations with countries with which we are today establishing quality co-operation at a new level and on arguments that are caused by the needs of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia today. In particular, I would refer to the agreement with Montenegro and in this sense, I would like to say that it is for us a confirmation of Serbia's European integration, that it is a significant contribution to creating stability in the region and also to say that it is a condition for Serbia and the countries to perform in the region, in third markets, which, in any case, has significant economic consequences and leads to the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. Also, as a member of the national community living in both Serbia and Montenegro and other parts of this region and the EU, I want to highlight a few things. First of all, this law implements the constitutional obligation both the Government and the Assembly and all the state bodies of the Republic of Serbia to assist the Serb population in the countries in the environment, and also to contribute as Serbia to the co-operation of members of national minorities in the region, who live in different countries. And here I see the possibility, if we well establish consular-diplomatic relations with Montenegro, with Macedonia and with all the countries in the environment, we can and can also say that it is a factor of stability in the region, that in this way we participate in resolving how the Bosniak issue, because it is known that this minority lives in both Serbia and Montenegro, at that border, and establishing good solutions to the situation of other minorities. What is also important to me as president of the Roma Party is that such diplomacy, that this international activity of Serbia should help to maintain in April of the month in Serbia and the first meeting of the Interparliamentary Assembly of Roma, representatives of different parliaments in the environment, where also Montenegro will participate in one way, although we do not have elected people there and that it will be a legitimate representative body in negotiations with the EU, with European institutions on implementation and decades of Roma and other important issues for the integration of the Roma national community. What is important for all of us who are leading Serbia to Europe on the European path is that Serbia will also be someone who will negotiate on behalf of citizens who are members of the EU with European institutions. In that sense, I welcome the government's activities. In that sense, as a member of the SNS parliamentary club, I will also vote for this law. This is a big contribution, really. It may not seem that way, but it is a great contribution to European integration and defining this government as someone who is absolutely acceptable to all countries in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-24-0.u10973	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word and before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Does the minister want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude a joint single search on the drafts of the law referred to in points 7, 8, 9, 10 and 15 of the agenda. We'll continue work Monday at 10.00 hours.
