ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26331	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 73 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Today is the day for asking parliamentary questions, so I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26332	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected counterparts, Kosovo is a first-row problem these days in Serbia and all these years. That is why I am not sure that in full capacity we can talk about other problems, but regardless, I will ask some parliamentary questions, looking back at this first part of my presentation and the problem of resolving the Kosovo issue. You know that the SPO and DHSS in the previous period asked for a change in Kosovo's policy from previous governments. The government has changed Kosovo's policy of interest, the national interest of Serbs living in Kosovo and citizens of Serbia as a whole. That is why we believe it is necessary to support, of all political actors, of all people in Serbia, the government's efforts to resolve the Kosovo issue in the framework of a policy defined here in parliament, as regards the implementation of the Brussels Agreement, the continued follow-up of dialogue and the provision of normal life for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Now I'm going to ask questions that are really far less important than this first problem that I raised in the first part of the exhibition, as regards parking services everywhere in Serbia, as regards the violation of the Personal Data Protection Act. I would ask Rodoljub Sabic, I would ask the MUP how could these municipal companies have collected databases or received personality databases, since they have no right to collect these documents, or to make such registers? This is about discrimination, since citizens, citizens, foreign citizens when they come to Serbia cannot be charged with penalties for improper parking, unlike Serbian citizens, because there is no record of their names and place of residence. The Constitutional Court has made a decision assessing them as opposed to the PDOS additional cards. However, it remains unrespectable, but citizens are being punished for improper parking. I'm asking the Justice Department to try and solve this problem. In the last part of my presentation today, I will refer to something that I have publicly supported, the initiative of Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, and as regards the removal of rotational lights and sound signals to those people, those officials who do not belong to it under the law. Traveling from Cačka to Belgrade and Belgrade to Cačka in the last two days, I have found unauthorized use of sound and light signals. I've written down the registration marks on those vehicles. I think everyone needs such abuses to try to prevent us all from getting involved in this action because many citizens of Serbia are scared of these arrogant people. It's a practice and previous governments, and it's a practice that has to be put in the way, but it can't be driven by just one man and the support of one political party, we all have to do our best to prevent it, to bear fruit. We must all and appeal to parliament, to MPs, to all state officials, and above all, to the MUP and to them, I refer to the question of what will be done to prevent such abuses in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26333	The word is made by the MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26334	Dear Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament and all citizens of Serbia who watch this transmission, I demand a notice, or I have a question for the Ministry of Education, I do not say Minister because I do not know who is in charge of this notice that I wish to receive. In recent months, several dozen graduates addressed our MP club with one single question – could the Ministry of Education affect higher education institutions or universities to issue diplomas to graduate students who had completed college within a period of a year and had not received their diplomas for more than a year? True, they get confirmations that they can apply for jobs they want, but I really don't think it's appropriate, even though they gave money to print or write those diplomas, that there are colleges where graduates haven't received those degrees in years. Can the Ministry of Education do so by some direction to the colleges, by regulation, to arrange, not to say some order according to my own authority, because it is really inappropriate to criticise a number of young people who have been studying for many years from scheduled deadlines, while at the same time that those who have finished within or have studied a little longer, this higher education institution cannot issue a diploma? I can understand that this deadline will be up to one year, until the first next session, because usually colleges have a formal session and once a year, and at that ceremony, young graduates would be given those degrees. If some of them call, we have testimonies about it, college management, simply, the answer is – wait. I wouldn't want to count the colleges here. This problem that I'm initiating here, and I'm looking for a solution to it, it really does exist, and a lot of people know about it. I don't believe that college administrations are so busy that their college graduates get their certificates, but they can't get their diplomas now, even though they paid for the practical and technical design of those diplomas, so, printing and just someone to write. I think it's very unserious. I repeat, they have confirmations that they can apply to certain jobs in the country, but they do not recognise those certificates abroad. I'm asking the Ministry of Education to come forward, take it seriously. A lot of people are really hurt, so they can't get it officially. These diplomas are located in working rooms, are proud of both parents and many are framed in apartments and houses, and these children, for example, cannot get it as a confirmation of their work, study and their efforts. I think it's inadmissible and that the Ministry should do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26335	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Slavica Saveljic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26336	Thank you. On behalf of the URS parliamentary group, I have a question for Mr Radulovic's economy minister. We expected that the reconstruction of the government would make a significant contribution to its efficiency, and that the division of a complex ministry into two new ones – the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance will, in any case, help solve the accumulated problems in these areas more quickly and better, especially in the area of economy. Unfortunately, the daily routine and examples we have completely dissuade our hopes and our expectations. Today, I will speak on behalf of a group of my fellow citizens, former employees of the Kragujevac flag group, who had the opportunity to declare the social programme offered, in hopes that they would resolve their status permanently. People had a chance to choose one of the four options offered. The largest number, exactly the same age as the so-called age, was defined as the so-called age. the payment of a special payment fee. It's that cash compensation paid to people who are only a few years old until retirement, two or four years, actually. Although a working relationship ended on August 31st, although the contract predicted that the implementation of the social programme would start no later than 30 days after that, here, today is November 5th, not even in terms of the realisation of the social programme. These people are on the National Employment Service counters every day, but unfortunately, in this institution they only match their shoulders, because they can't actually give them answers because they're just a service that needs to be implemented by a part of government policy. The right answer should be given by the competent ministry. However, citizens of dissatisfaction are coughing up precisely on national service counters, then coughing up their dissatisfaction in local self-government, because in the absence of real information, people are asking for answers and help from those available to them, even if they are not in charge. Only the minister who's in charge and who's supposed to give an answer or feel this kind of pressure, or give any answers. That is why we ask the competent minister, however, in informal talks it is heard that only lists from the ministry are not forwarded to the National Employment Service, so we ask him – is it really possible that only such a banal reason is precisely why the payment of social benefits is late? Is it possible that just not adding the lists is the reason why over 300 people need to feel cheated again? Why is Minister Kragujevac so far away? What path in the 21st century, in the era of developed information technologies, lists from Belgrade to Kragujevac travel for more than two months? We will not believe that it is only vanity, vanity because this job has started and worked successfully and has almost brought to the end the former economy minister, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, with his associates. We want to believe that there is a more serious and more concrete reason, as well as that Minister Radulovic is part of the government's team, and that as part of the team he is obliged to make decisions by the end and implement. So once again we ask the minister – when will the payment of special cash fees for more than 300 former employees of the vehicle flag group that ended their employment relationship on 31 August, trusting their country that no later than 30 days after that, they will start paying off the social programme? I just hope that the answer to the National Assembly will travel far shorter than the lists traveled to Kragujevac. Also, we're prepared not to get an answer from the minister, provided the money and lists in Kragujevac arrive by the end of the week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26337	The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26338	Thank you. The Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija refused to go to the polls because it is about the elections issued by the false president of the false state, according to their false laws. If the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly had called the elections under the laws of the state of Serbia and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, any Serb in Kosovo and Metohija would have come out and voted in these and such elections. The elections failed on November 3rd because the Serb people boycotted the anti-state elections. The issue of enormous importance that we are asking today is – why does the president of the Serbian Parliament step on the Constitution and why not call the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija? If, under the law of the Serbian state, provisional measures are imposed in four municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija, only according to our law can elections be called for those four municipalities. The government has stepped down the law, violated the constitution and accepted the elections of Hashim Thaci, Kuchi, Rexhepi and that is the only truth when it comes to co-operation, tactics and agreement with Albanian separatists. The signing of the Brussels Agreement stands as evidence of the surrender of Kosovo, which no media link can hide, no matter how hard the authorities try. The people rejected an agreement between the separatist authorities in Pristina and the authorities in Serbia, boycotted the elections, sending a clear message that as Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija respected the decision of their assembly of AP Kosovo and Metohija, they also want to respect the decision of their Republika Srpska Assembly to call elections for four municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija. Where will you get more proof that the separatist elections failed from the data that 90% of citizens boycotted the elections in northern Mitrovica, in Zubino Potok 88%, in Zvecan 95%, in Leposavic 84%? If the president of the Republika Srpska Assembly had issued elections under his constitutional obligation for four municipalities in northern Kosovo and Metohija, believe me, no one would have urged Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija to go to the elections. If she had called the elections, the government in Serbia would not cause violence in Kosovo and Metohija, would not have entered schools, would not have introduced repression and would not have spurred its own people in Kosovo and Metohija for months, forcing him by police force and torture to come out and vote and thus, above all, that his vote for the secession of Kosovo and Metohija. Going to an election organised by Albanian separatists from ours, from the Serbian point of view, is the work of a state-of-the-art. The separatist elections kill the state of Serbia and Serbian institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, which are the basis for the preservation of Serbia's state in Kosovo and Metohija. We recognise only those elections issued by the Serbian Parliament, and we reject those elections organised by Albanian separatists. The murder is the biggest crime against the state of Serbia, and it's about time...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26339	It's time, Mr. Petkovic, to ask a question, please. Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26340	What time do I have another minute? Please give me back my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26341	Let's see the question. I want to hear the question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26342	As I said, the state's murder is one of the greatest crimes, and that is why it is high time for those who lead this country to reason, to stop and listen to the voice of their own people telling them that they want to respect Serbia's Constitution and that they want to stay living in their own country. Instead of waging a war against his people, the government should call the elections under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Tomorrow in Brussels, Alexander Vulin is free to change his shirt, because, thank God, Serbia is not buried. A boycott of elections in Kosovo and Metohija buried the Brussels Agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26343	The word has been made by the People's MP Vesna Jovicki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26344	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am giving my question today to Minister Alexander Antic. Serbian citizens have had opportunities to learn through the media about the problems faced by residents of Nestin iVizic since the Republic of Croatia, meaning from July 1st, joined the EU. These two places belong to the Municipality of Backo Palanka, but are located on the Sremski side, while all the other sites of the municipality on the Bačka side and are divided by the Danube. The only communication they achieve is realised across the Danube bridge, which belongs to the Republic of Croatia one half and the other half to the Republic of Serbia, which means it is located on the state border. By entering the Republic of Croatia into the EU, the border crossing regime has been tightened, so that our citizens when crossing the bridge have to cross in one direction four passport controls. The crossing time has been extended. It is difficult or completely impossible to traffic goods or transport. Children, about fifty of them, 38 primary school students from fifth to eighth grade, remained high school students, daily crossing the border with parental authority, and it is not sure if they will arrive on time in class. The inhabitants of these two places for medical examination can go to a health care facility in Backo Palanko but must return without medication, because they cannot carry them across the border and must wait to be brought to them with a skeleton over the Danube. The ambulance also regularly crosses the border, like all other vehicles. So sometimes they have to wait half an hour to cross, so I don't have to say what that means for patients who need help urgently. This way of life can lead to residents from this border area starting to move out, which is what happens next to shutting down and agriculture and any other production and the economic downturn of this region. In this way, the problem of the citizens of Backa Palanka becomes wider and more serious and exceeds the local frameworks, as well as the possibility of solving the local level. The fact is that the main problem is the lack of other communication that allows citizens to exercise their rights without any further problems. The Municipality of Backo Palanka launched an initiative to build a new bridge over the Danube. The minister is aware of this problem and in this sense there have been some activities, but on this occasion I would like to ask whether the minister and the competent ministry, as well as the government will take the necessary steps to build a new bridge, making it easier not only for the inhabitants of these two places, but also for the new physical link between Backa and Srem, because this is important not only for the people of Bačka Palanka, but also for Vojvodina and the Republic of Serbia. Such a traffic connection would allow residents of the municipalities of Bac, Odzak, Sombora, Subotica and other municipalities to carry goods and services more efficiently, economically cheaper, not to go through Novi Sad and Fruska Gora, which increases costs and transport and time, but would also connect citizens of the Republic of Serbia with members of our people in Republika Srpska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26345	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26346	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a question for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. The budget has finally arrived in front of MPs in the Assembly, and I think it's time to open the topic. As always when the draft budget is looked at, it is enough to understand how much this country is in, and therefore I ask that question to the Prime Minister, to look at the first few pages of the draft budget – general revenue, general expenditure. That's why my question to the Prime Minister -- was it not more fair and simple for him, the government and the ruling coalition to practically propose temporary funding there by March next year, and in the meantime, as people, to go to elections after these completed jobs that were urgent and why so far there was no choice and to try the beginning of 2014 to make a normal budget? It is much healthier for this country than we have received a budget that is a conservation of the existing situation in which nothing has changed since 2013, where we are going to spend 10 billion euros, and so much is the budget for 2014, almost in a figure of 10 billion euros, without actually starting any serious reform in this country. My question for the Prime Minister is, once again, we need to open this debate now, not when the budget comes to the assembly's plenary session – to whom will the citizens of Serbia pay almost 90m euros from the budget for activated guarantees in 2014? What are the public-loss companies, and what are the loans that these companies cannot repay? The second question for the Prime Minister is how does he feel like the president of the country's government to repay next year's interest rate loans that are 5-8 times higher than the projected GDP growth in 2014? What remained in that draft budget of those promises that the Prime Minister here promised only two months ago to the MPs? How is it possible to collect everything, from milk to all other forms of food, from books over heating, through hotel services to computers, and the budget deficit in 2014 to the same as the planned deficit in 2013? How is it possible that no bill of reform along with this draft budget is coming to the Assembly? It is obvious to us, but I think that the public and Serbia should acknowledge this, and the president of the government of this country, that in such a well-established, well-established ruling coalition, there is no internal willingness to reform more seriously, but then tell the society who is preventing these reforms. Who is preventing the start of the PIO Fund reform in 2015? Is it one party in the government or is this party an excuse for others not to enter those reforms? Is the job of politicians in this country, including the Prime Minister, to see how the ministers and directors of public enterprises are being persecuted in the media or to say why as Prime Minister, the nominal even leader of the ruling majority in the government, is not ready, does not want to cut the situation? The President of the Republic sends messages from Moscow, the Minister of Energy wonders how it is possible to depreciate some applications? Some other parts of the government do the same thing in some other companies. The director of Railways sends me a letter saying it's normal that he was in Vrbas a few days before the elections. The Polish Foreign Ministry is at war with its former ambassador this morning. When he sets up a job competition, he doesn't do it publicly, because he's supposed to have no money. In such an atmosphere, we need to adopt the 2014 budget. Who does $90 million go to? Why is no serious reform touched? How much greater public debt will be at the end of 2014 and whether what is the only salvation for the country will actually be done at the moment to endure so that until the start of spring with this budget increased by inflation rates compared to last year, and then to go to elections and try to make political strength in this country capable of carrying out reforms that are not in this draft budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26347	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26348	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been witnessing that violence has been encouraged and generated in Serbia since the first day of the formation of this government. Since the first day of the government's work, which has begun its mandate with general amnesty, violence has progressed. It advances and permeates all the pores of our society, so that in Serbia the rule of law is replaced by the rule of violence. Unfortunately, the flood of violence associated with a prodigal primitive, which Serbian citizens clap every day from the party media and reads produce their frightening fruits. There's no segment of our society that isn't contaminated by violence right now. The choices, unfortunately, don't get any more quality ideas, but the quality of the muscle of the overcrowded thugs and the quality of the caliber of the pistols hit for the belt. A short trip from the kidnapping of DS members in Vrbas to the frightening violence at Marakana and in the local election in KIM. That's what it looks like in Serbia in a country where the prosecution doesn't react when DS members are kidnapped in Vrbas. That's what it looks like when thugs, thugs and gunmen in Vrbas are led by a man who was identified in the police and named Zoran Milojevic Zelja, who is a clerk and advisor at the government office for KIM. That's what it looks like in a country where that same clerk sits next to Alexander Vukic on all the mythic SNS on KIM. This is what it looks like when the DS in Novi Sad organizes a protest walk against the rise of terrifying violence, and activists and members of the SNS come to provoke violence, in order to turn Novi Sad from the cultural capital into the capital of fear and violence. By persevering to open a debate about this growing evil, persistently refusing to launch a strategy on combating violence, this government has set off a flame of hatred that no longer burns in the south of Maracana. Every school, every school yard, every playground has its own north and south at this moment, where there's an angry fire of violence. That fire of violence rules out gasoline. The panic fear atmosphere is once again ruling among citizens, and above all among parents. Parents are no longer happy when their child comes home from school and brings an A's, but when he comes back alive, healthy and unhurt. Unfortunately, the government that capitulated before the violence of cancelling the Pride Parade, which did not provide conditions for the normal holding of the Vrbas elections, now wants to seduce order in the north of KIM in 45 minutes. This is what the first Deputy Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vukic, wants, who unfortunately calls for the return of our security forces not by diplomatic means, but by the way we see through the media today, for cheap advertising and demagogy. In doing so, Minister Alexander Vulin says it is the first official, the first member of the government to call on the international community to allow our security forces to return to KIM. I ask both Alexander Vukic and Alexander Vulin – what prevented them from making such a call in 1999 when Metohija and Kosovo burned? Why didn't they make that call in June and July 1999? Why didn't the KiM turn from 1991 to 1999? Today's elections in Kosovo, Mitrovica would not be held under some other laws, but would be elected by MPs for the Serbian parliament under the applicable laws. I have to ask them why they didn't call security forces in July 1999 when the yellow house was filling, and when Marko Jaksic stayed home? Whatever you think of the police of Mark Jaksic, I cannot as an MP shut up and put my head down while the persecution of MP Marko Jaksic is being carried out. I don't need applause, I need a calm conscience. I invite you also to have a calm conscience and not to let the Kosovo knot continue to knelt and bind and to be in it, for there will be a noose around your neck. I ask this on behalf of our employers, Serbian citizens, when will you schedule a session of the Kosovo and Metohija Committee and the Security Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26349	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26350	Dear citizens of Serbia, I have a question for Mr. Dacic's Prime Minister. In fact, we are witnessing a terrible weekend as we have seen from several previous talks by the MPs. Some have not even noticed in asking questions about what happened in Serbia last weekend. The violence at the stadiums is repeated and what is even worse is what happened in northern Kosovo's Mitrovica, in the northern AP KIM, violence and violation of what the interests of the Serbian state and the interests of the Serb people are. I understand from the case of Uroš Misic that Serbia had to deal with violently earlier with all those who are using violence, whether it was cheerleading groups, whether it was politics. Unfortunately, in Serbia, some other things have always been given priority among some previous governments, not what can harm all of us as a state and in the coming period. Violents and promoters of violence must be punished in my opinion. Serbia knows who they are. You can see every day, various Kachavenda, Artemia and the Artemis, various "Faces", fan group, "Our", "Dveri" etc. People who can't see beyond their noses and who in the 19th century would be retrograde and let alone today. The political father, the inspirer of those and such is Vojislav Kostunica. A vain man in a year who is now only able, unfortunately, to do us harm. That's what I was saying in 2008 in the party until 2010 when I was kicked out because of those words, thank God, but every day it's proved true. For everything that has happened in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, Vojislav Kostunica is guilty. Evidence and statement of the so-called Watchers outside the school. So we heard that the observers of those who called for a boycott were in polling stations. What are observers doing in these polling stations? What kind of observers are they? We saw it on the tapes. None of them have necks and each one has less hair than me on his head. They were such observers. What were they doing with those people out there? Of course they were persuaded to boycott the election and not go to that election. Boycott didn't make it, no matter what you read. The Serbs went to the election. Under Ibra lives twice as many Serbs as in four northern Kosovo municipalities. The exits are over 60% there. Maybe 100% as far as Serbian living is concerned, because the voter list is the same as one of the results of these elections, obviously knocked up by authorities in Pristina, because he says there are 1,700,000, and the last list spoke 1,800,000. Thanks to this, as well as the results in northern Kosovo, the Serb municipalities community will be formed as the Brussels Agreement foresees. Those who were the inspirers of this will certainly disappear from Serbia's political scene and will be punished by Serbian citizens. People should not be called upon in every situation, if the people do not stand behind you, and that is what all elections show, and what happened on Sunday. I repeat, citizens of Serbian nationality went to the KIM elections. They are not in several northern municipalities in the number they were supposed to be in because they were deceived and intimidated. Even among Albanians, those who have won a deal and a conversation, not a war, and those who call for violence have never been ready to defend the state in the way we should have done in the past. (President: Time. ) My question for President Dacic is – will the state stop calculating and start seriously, regardless of whether the question is calculations or ineffectiveness, those who are inefficient to replace and begin to deal with the abusers who harm the state and the people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26351	Thank you to the MP. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26352	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will continue to ask questions Sunday about the health ministers of the Republic of Serbia's health policy, reminding that it is really necessary to get some quality plan or at least an offer that the health system in the Republic of Serbia should look like. My question specifically concerns whether the new institution that has been passed by the Patients' Rights Act, which is health advice, has started operating on local self-government, has health advice been established, and what are these topics that these health councils are dealing with? Whether the Ministry of Health is offering some topics to health advice and whether it is asking for some information, because without that quality information from the field, I don't know how to make a quality health policy. I've been asking mostly systemic questions so far, and I have to say that I haven't received a single answer from the Minister of Health. I don't know why that's the reason. But since the ministry doesn't even answer to health care institutions for two or three months, it doesn't surprise me. So does the health ministry know how many nursing households are in Serbia and how many women or men have been treated for over 60 years? Are these individuals invited to preventative examinations and their health status? How much medical care is available to them? These are all topics that local self-government's health councils should be dealing with, but they're not dealing with it, and they're not dealing with it because, as far as I know, or what my information is, they haven't started to work yet. I think it's a devastating thing for the Ministry of Health, because you can't get quality information and form a health policy unless you know how things are on the ground. What does it look like one day in the treatment of a grandmother or a blanket that needs to go to treatment and live in a village around Valjev or Lazareva, how long does it take for them to go to check out, how long does it take for them to do lab analysis, to schedule a specialist checkup, to go to checkup? Now, let me tell you right now that one simple day of treatment turns into months and sometimes years. I would like to get an answer to the question from the Minister of Health – why is it so and what is she going to do to change things? If you have a situation to say, I'm going to take a specific example of Capca, a village near Šapca, it's called Bukorin, and it's 30 kilometers from Capca, someone who's sick, usually I'm talking about 40% of the old man's household in that village, it's supposed to go to treatment, first it has to hit the day when the doctor works in the infirmary, and then go to the doctor and take the instructions to run basic laboratory analysis. Then he needs to go to Shabac and schedule those lab tests, which can sometimes take a few days. I'm talking about the simple life-forms of every common man who meets our health care system every day. He needs to do those tests, get his test results, that's another departure, go back to his village on the day he works the infirmary, so the doctor can write him a directions for a specialist examination. Then he needs to go and schedule a specialist examination that can take place within 30 days or longer, and then again for a while to get a specialist examination. I'm telling you that the problem of treatment comes down to a long-term, labored process that lasts for months. Our citizens are demoted to respond to all the demands required by such a complicated health system, and then they choose not to heal or choose to heal themselves, which leads us to actually buying their own therapy, provided they do, and all in all we are doing is leading to a series of absurd moves that an ordinary citizen has to implement to provide himself with health care. So, I'll go back to the beginning – how does the health system, or the health ministry, manage the health system? How does he get information from the bar and how many health councils are involved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26353	Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Bauer Ivan, Sasa Dujovic and Gordana Comic. We continue the joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26354	Mr. President, I'm advertising a breach of Rule 7 of the Rules of Procedure. At that moment, you were not in the O.R. when the most harsh insults and accusations were heard here at the expense of the DSS and our President Vojislav Kostunica. The charges have been made that our parliamentary group, the president of our parliamentary group, is an inspiration to violence in Kosovo and Metohija. We have waited for a time when we thought we had adopted freedom and democracy and the right to express ourselves, for those who have opinions that disagree with the opinion of the ruling majority to be accused, to be shown up, to be publicly lynched and without trial and without judgment in this way accused. For years, we have been accustomed to these accusations from various televisions, special shows, foreign embassies, always because we have kept clear and firm that Kosovo and Metohija are an inalienable part of Serbia. We will always fight to be an inalienable part of Serbia and we will not change our policy, but if this is a way for those who think differently to label and accuse themselves, then I ask you to consider that this is not something that is fitting to the National Assembly. We were very specific about our attitudes here, and we were not insulting anyone. But it won't prevent us from making these statements, these kind of accusations, the insidious beatings to continue our policy and to carry out what we stand for. We have suffered in previous years, from the previous government and previous governments, these same attacks, these same statements, but we will not give up on our policy. I ask you that this National Assembly, which in the previous period reached a certain level of communication and normal respect among MPs, regardless of political differences, retain that level and that such statements, such labels and the demeaning of those who think otherwise, stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26355	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26356	Articles 104 and 107. The first was to ask a question, and here it is now called to Article 6, and 104 is the misreading and 107th violation of the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Since I recognized that he interpreted fellow Palalic as what I was saying, just to make it clear. I didn't mention the president of the parliamentary group once, you can see it in a stenogram. I haven't mentioned the DSS once, and it can be seen in a stenogram. I only mentioned Vojislav Kostunica. If he's whole, I'm DSS, and I know he is, then fine. But in any case, I didn't mention any of this, but I only listed him, not the DSS and not the president of the parliamentary group, as the inspirers of what was happening in northern Kosovo on Sunday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26357	According to the Rules of Procedure? (John Palalic: Replica. ) Can't replica on a breach of the Rules of Procedure. There is a parliamentary practice here that does not allow replicas to be broken by the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26358	Article 27. Mr. President, I think we need to establish order in the National Assembly, so this session continues. That's what we stand for. But we have now heard that the president of a political party does not represent a party in public or represent its views. You know what? The entire parliamentary group and DSS membership stand behind its president. (President: It's all right, but it has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Political views taken to the National Assembly sessions do not define a breach of the Rules of Procedure. ) President, I ask you to take care of the way you express yourself in the National Assembly. I don't know if anyone from the DSS parliamentary group has ever spoken offensively of anyone presenting their political views, no matter how different we are. (President): But what Mr. Shormaz said, what I heard, was not offensive. ) Mr. President, Mr. Shormaz said Vojislav Kostunica is an inspiration to violence and encourages extremist groups to commit violence in Kosovo. I beg you, this is where the National Assembly could hear it. I ask you to respect what we have said and not to allow anything like this in the National Assembly. If we have agreed that we have reached a certain level in the previous period, mutual respect and treatment, we do not have to be offended, otherwise we will return to other times, which we certainly do not want to. At the very end of the line, we believe that after 2000, we have reached the level of democratic rights to express our views, no matter how different we are about it. We don't have to go back to a time when it's no longer allowed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26359	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26360	The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated again, and I'm being misread again, but I'm not going back to what I said, I just don't know how hard the word is. If we are talking about dignity and how the National Assembly should be run, and this is not a replica, but a 107 - dignity of the National Assembly, is it worse to say that one is an inspiration to violence or is a murderer? And just a few minutes before I said this, those who run the state of Serbia or the government were called the country's killer. You can't whine like a Kalimer and think you can do anything without the beating having no other end. There's another end.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26361	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26362	Wrong interpretation. I used the term "slayer," precisely because we believe that if you force your own people in Kosovo to vote... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26363	I won't allow you a replica. I turned off your microphone. I won't allow you a replica. (Petar Petkovic: How did you allow Shormaz?) Because he's SNS? Mr. Shormaz has advertised a breach of Article 104. Mr. Petkovic, you blatantly violate the Rules of Procedure. You're trying to talk about a replica using a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You want to answer Mr. Shormaz now. You can only point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure that I did. I, at the moment I began to hold the presidency, heard what was said, allowed Mr Palalic twice to address us, twice to Mr Shormaz, you spoke on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group and I think it is quite fair and fair. At this point, I don't think there's any need to take this debate any further this way. I'm moving on. Mrs. Djeric has a word. Here you go, Mrs. Djeric. (The MPs report to the Rules of Procedure. I've already given my word to Mrs. Djeric. After the first next speaker. Mrs. Djeric, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26364	Dear citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, today we continue the debate on the set of laws in the judiciary and continue to deal with the draft law on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. We in New Serbia have realized that the reasons for the adoption of these laws, namely these amendments and the addition of laws, are certainly in order to make justice even faster, more accessible and certainly more effective for the citizens. That is the goal of regulating Serbia's judiciary. We are never satisfied with the judiciary and no society is fully satisfied, but in any case, we should never give up our desire and our intention and our efforts to bring him to what is the ideal judiciary, because that is the only way that it can enable citizens, in a democratic society, to enjoy all their rights and freedoms. Because, the judiciary, we should not forget, is the only base between democracy and anarchy. We all wanted to be able to say trivially and cheaply, courting voters, looking for and citing reasons – why in every town, there should be a court in every place, speaking of it, again trivially, so that we could bring it down, even bid to the level of the local community. However, we must respect the reality, we must be aware of the situation in which Serbia is, and Serbia is not a rich country at the moment, and regardless of the need to give its citizens justice and the consumption of the law. What is true and reality is that some judicial units have to be abolished and we've had a lot of leprosy about it yesterday, and yet we're also aware that out of the existing 34 basic courts we're going to have 66, that of the existing 34 public prosecutors we're going to have 58. It is a significant increase and a significant rise in meeting the needs of Serbian citizens. We welcome the many changes and additions that these legal solutions offer before us. We were, in the previous session, really someone who criticized the reform of the judiciary at the time very sharply. What we have in front of us today on the agenda shows that we were quite right. Then, as an MP, I said, and I can always quote myself freely, that Serbia remembered Mr Batic as the minister who returned his dignity to the judges, so I asked the minister at the time to, respecting that effort which, in a sensitive time, was not easy to implement, and he succeeded, so that she would not be remembered as someone who would be the undertaker of the Serbian judiciary. It may have been too difficult to say, but it turns out that the reform did not produce the results that were then announced. If we take just one segment of reform that we can talk about today and the public of Serbia needs to know, that hundreds of judges who haven't been elected for a long time, not to say for years, have received a judicial salary, then it is the unemployed citizens of Serbia and those who live on the edge of existence who are certainly not only insulting and humiliating, but also worrying and really seriously endangering. We, according to the budget owned by Serbian citizens, must be extremely responsible. So, I always stress, the government is not a company, it is not a profitable organisation, the government has a budget owned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia have the right to always and at all times check that the funds they own are being spent. We're the ones who need to answer what's going to happen, how it's going to be spent. That's exactly what Mr. Minister was talking about yesterday and explaining why a judicial unit cannot be held somewhere, why somewhere it has to be now a reception office and I respect those reasons. I believe that this reception office, as for citizens whose service it will be, will satisfy their very needs, but some benefits will be lifted for those who have sat there and have not adequately done their job, or have responded to the need for a job that is financially justified. Also, we welcome that the suitability of the judge's function is taken into account. What we heard yesterday is that the judges will have one kind of responsibility if the verdict is passed on purpose, that is, according to the recommendation of the Venice Convention, the qualification of extreme negligence has been abolished. Since I know Mr. Secretary is an extraordinary rhetorical man and knows the contents of the word, I don't think he should have given in to that. An extreme neglect is something that must not be allowed in such a business, negligent at all, and especially extreme negligence as a qualification. It's inadmissible to make a verdict with extreme negligence. You are here to care for your function and for the citizen who comes to you to seek justice. We must not forget the Greek principle, the three sacred professions - teacher, doctor and judge. It's where civilization and society rest. So that's what we really think is good and will give citizens one security when they seek their rights and justice in court. I would also particularly like to apostrophe Articles 8a and 8b of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts, which ensure the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. We in the judiciary always have long-term pastel deadlines, and sometimes these deadlines are extended to the point that any attainment of a just solution loses meaning and loses any sense of justice, and justice must never be abolished. What we can say at this point about these laws is that we ourselves have submitted a small number of amendments as a parliamentary group and that in the debate in particular we will explain them very closely. We expect that there will be an understanding by the Ministry. If the arguments are too high by the minister not to be accepted, some compromises must be made. We also welcome the fact that we have seen the need for appeals courts, for which we know how important they are because they have taken over the powers of the Supreme Courts, where it was actually going to level the case law. That's not very good, because it says there weren't the same arches in four appeals courts. But we need to point out something else at our four appeals court, which is Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis. I would really like Mr. Minister to pay attention to that, although he spoke a lot about it. The Court of Appeal in Novi Sad is extremely burdened. The Court of Appeal has a special role in the judiciary, it is widely expected and we certainly expect these judgments to be very good and above all just. Now I'm just going to give you a brief illustration. For example, completed cases, it is one unit of measure, according to the number of judges in the Belgrade Court of Appeal, averaged over 170, in Kragujevac over 140, in Nis 130, and in Novi Sad over 200. So, the number of cases in work by the Belgrade Court of Appeal is over 390, in Kragujevac over 220, in Nis over 270, and in Novi Sad over 430. (President: Time. Please, just one sentence. So, by respecting all that we have heard so far in the principle debate, by respecting the reasons that the minister put forward for the adoption of these amendments and additions, I think we will be cooperative and we will be able to support these four proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26365	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26366	Your Honor, I point to Article 27's injury, and with regard to Article 107. I will quote, which certainly enters me in time to explain the injury, I am a member of 107, and that second position – at the session of the National Assembly I am not allowed directly to address the MP to another MP by using offensive expressions, as well as by giving facts and evaluations relating to the private life of other persons. I tried to answer, but you gave your word to my colleague Zlati Djeric before me, so I couldn't explain this injury before. The previous speaker, spokeswoman before Zlata Djeric, Dragan Šormaz, can be seen from the stenogram, addressed directly to the MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, instead of speaking like me, in the third person. You have injured Article 27 by holding a session of the National Assembly in connection with Article 107, because you did not then warn him, as you allowed two arguments of unequal force to be brought up, in the wrong way, by violating Article 107 by the MPs. When it comes to political attitude and political assessment of political events or political acts, different expressions can be used. But when you talk about a physical person involving him in alleged conflicts, inciting conflict or any crimes on the part of the territory of the state, it is certainly offensive, especially for members of that parliamentary group whose face is the president and whom they respect, whom they have regularly elected to the party's president. So I don't think you should have allowed yourself to create egality in this relationship. If this is in line with the views of the party you belong to, that demeaning of other parliamentary groups and political parties, at least you as Parliament's president must rise above it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26367	The word is Milica Radovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26368	I'm reporting under Article 108. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. Mr. President, you have not responded adequately to everything that preceded my report. I'm just going to say one word that applies to what we've heard. The Janjiks have always been more cruel and cruel than the Turks, and the way you conduct this session and the way you treat the MPs, and especially the opposition, qualify you to enter and remain remembered as the progeny of the twilight of parliamentaryism in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26369	What can I tell you? Dear colleague Radovic has had some dots on me in the past few months. I don't know what the reason is, but since I greatly appreciate her work, I really don't want to go into this kind of debate. Next reported is Mr. Riza Halimi. (Milos Aligrudic, from the post: Please state in the day to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We will certainly declare both injuries in the day of the vote, when the National Assembly will decide whether there have been injuries. Here you go, Mr. Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26370	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors of the Presevo municipality with 90% of the Albanian population is definitely left without a basic court, and both Presevo and Bujanovac remain without a basic prosecutor's office, and the Bujanovac municipality remains without a court for violations. In this way, the degradation of the position of Albanians in Serbia in the area of justice is continuing, started during Milosevic's regime, which was deepened, expanded, reformed by the justice system in 2008, when the Presevo and Bujanovac municipal courts were converted into judicial units, and their public prosecutors were completely abolished. Because of this discriminatory government attitude towards the Albanian population from the relatively favourable representation of Albanians in the first-degree judicial institutions, which we had in the 1980s, we came to a totally unacceptable situation in which in the Vranj basic court of over 50 judges there are only three Albanian nationalities. Although in this court area Albanians make up at least a quarter of the population. It is even more paradoxical that in the last three years, there is not a single juror of Albanian nationality in this fundamental court, without talking about a higher court in Vranj, which has not had a single Albanian employee, and there is not even an interpreter for Albanian language. The translator doesn't even have a basic public prosecutor's office. It means that this bill does not create the necessary conditions for overcoming the disastrous representation of Albanians in judicial institutions, and this also means that Albanians will continue to be denied the exercise of fundamental rights, the constitutional right to use their language and letter in judicial proceedings. In fact, three years of practice, the degradation of the Presevo and Bujanovac municipal courts into the judicial units, has led to a drastic reduction in the participation of Albanians in the Vranj General Court because no trainee of Albanian nationality has been accepted. On the other hand, when drawing up this bill, it is not taken into account at all that the municipality of Presevo, as well as the municipality of Bujanovac, is passing Corridor 10 and that, as a border municipality, along with very traffic crossings, there is a huge inflow of court cases. By offering a solution to return only to Bujanovac to the basic court, the citizens of Presevo are slightly reducing their costs so far, as instead of their journey to Vranj from 45 km to 60 km, they will now travel to Bujanovac, from 30km to 45km. When it comes to the size of municipalities, I draw your attention to the fact that this proposal provides for the return of the judiciary to ten municipalities that are far less than the Presevo municipality. Presevo municipality, according to the 2002 census, since there has been no census in this area since 2011, had 35,000 inhabitants and plus 13,000 who have stayed abroad for more than one year, and they are also our citizens who have property here and are potential candidates for participants in court proceedings. According to the earlier methodology of Presevo statistics, there were 48,000 inhabitants in that list. In light of the bill's proposal, it was stated that changes in the territorial organisation of primary and public prosecutors were accompanied by changes in the territorial organisation of courts. In addition to this criterion, I believe it is necessary, primarily because of rationality, that both in the police and in the prosecution cases are processed in the Presevo municipality, as it has been practice for decades. We should not expose ourselves to the enormous costs of the journey of all participants to Vranj or Bujanovac. Due to rationality, economics, and especially due to the achievement of the principle of equality of all citizens, I have proposed amendments to return the municipality of Presevo to the basic court and the main public prosecutor's office, and the municipality of Bujanovac to the court for violations and the general public prosecutor's office, and the municipality of Medvedja has been proposed to form a judicial unit. I also asked the amendments for a second-degree level of judiciary for these municipalities, due to a number of specificities, but I point out once again the need for the return of judicial institutions in the first degree, because this is a basic prerequisite for normalising the situation in this area, and for the success of the talks with the government to begin a month ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26371	Mrs. Paunovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26372	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, respected ministers and other members of the government, one of the biggest topics this Assembly has been dealing with for several years, and on several occasions is the issue of judicial reform. This time we will adopt certain changes aimed at primarily improving the internal functioning of courts and prosecutors, which should reflect their better quality work. First of all, as regards the proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, which was the most said here, I only have to express my gratitude on behalf of the citizens of Lazarets that the need for Lazarec to receive his basic court was recognised in this law, given that according to all the criteria, and especially the number of civil criminal proceedings really existed. In addition to some minor technical repairs, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law introduces one institute that will be relevant for future court proceedings, especially for parties to proceedings, which is to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. In fact, we are all witnessing that our judiciary has been in couture with these problems from some earlier times, i.e. that the parties wait for months for the main search, for the hearings to be sometimes for objective and sometimes subjective reasons to be extended for several years, and that a long period of time is awaited for the decision-making itself. Such a situation is certainly contrary to the principles of legal efficiency and justice, so that the judgments of these time streams themselves lose every sense of purpose. I therefore welcome the introduction of these new legal members, which should allow an unsatisfactory party the right to appeal, to the duration of the proceedings and in the end of the line the right to compensation for the violation of that right. By the proper application of these provisions, we will be able to achieve some financial savings because a significant number of European Court of Human Rights decisions from Strasbourg which our country is obliged to pay the damaged ones a large amount of financial compensation is related to the violation of this right. The next important thing they bring about these changes is to expand the jurisdiction of senior courts. If the criminal acts of corruption are recognised as one of the major problems, if not the biggest social problems our society faces, although it is known that such actions are very sensitive in terms of determining guilt, then it is logical that all the crimes in this area fall under the jurisdiction of senior courts that have a more legally experienced courtroom that should be more resistant to the pressures of each type that often follow these processes. As for other important changes, restoring jurisdiction to senior judges to decide on complaints against decisions of the basic courts, on fines and prison sentences for up to five years. I believe that such a change is not in line with the concept of the law itself which just in 2009 set up appeals courts as appeals. Since these are criminal acts of minor social importance, and in order to improve judicial efficiency, such a solution must be accepted before the various costs of parties and courts will be reduced particularly by travellers when in place in four appeals courts with these appeals are decided in 26 higher courts. On the other hand, senior courts will be relieved of the conduct of disputes related to intellectual property rights, as the largest number of them have been linked to their exploitation in business activities, and their conduct will be taken over by economic courts. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, they are aimed at further guaranteeing the principles of judicial independence. In that sense, some of the rights and obligations of the judge are better and more precisely defined. As a very important detail, I see a future ban and judges to be members of political parties, or in other ways politically engaged, because it should not be forgotten that these judges in the judicial council are still the majority. A new solution to the possibility of relocate judges without its consent in exceptional cases or when the court is abolished or amended by jurisdiction, I don't think it will violate the principle of continuity because the courts are not abolished every month and no one will be demoted, as it is intended that the transfer can only be in the court of the same degree. Finally, the fourth legislative proposal concerns amendments and additions to the Public Prosecutor's Law. The most important part of these changes and additions is to create an opportunity for a basic public prosecutor's office to be responsible for the area of several basic courts. In light of this solution, it was said to achieve greater efficiency and to reduce costs. I must note that it seems illogical to abolish and reassemble the current public prosecutor's office, at the moment that the full application of the new Criminal Procedure Act has begun, which is scheduled for the public prosecutor to have much more jurisdiction and activity in the criminal proceedings, and thus, much greater cases will appear before the prosecutions, especially in the stages of the investigation and the collection of evidence. I think the rest of the solutions have been well-set, analoguely with the solutions proposed in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, in order to guarantee prosecutorial independence and independence. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that this package of laws introduces significant improvements to the work of our judicial system, and will therefore support all three legislative proposals in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26373	Thank you. MP Bojan Djuric has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26374	President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have no formal first, second and other readings in this House. We're having this principle debate and I'm going to do what I'm talking about trying to make it really principled. Minister, you were right yesterday when you said these were a couple of excellances of political laws and that at least in this part of the debate should be focused primarily on what is legal-political, constitutional-political, social, actually the causes of the serious crisis that we have in the entire judiciary, which is only a minor part of the judiciary itself, which is chronic, is not just a multi-annual one, it's decades old. We sometimes tend to romanticize the past and make it beautiful. The problems of the Serbian judiciary are decades old and I will try to speak in this sense, and some concrete solutions will be discussed in the discussion of details. The Liberal Democratic Party has submitted a number of amendments, and they will also be in the process before the committees, and in a few days I believe in this plenary session, in this room, and we will discuss it in more detail. First, a little reference to what happened yesterday in this House and to a part of your exposure, Mr. Selakovic. In fact, you were talking about the practice that still exists in Serbia, about changing the mentality or state of consciousness in people, brought out one kind of, I don't know whether it was a grudge or a neutral remark, a finding of things, that people are often, even today, when they come out of court, dissatisfied with the way in which the proceedings are going, once dissatisfied and by the court's decision, most often called by the minister. You said it like that, pretty neutral. You and I both know that in real life, they use something rougher. At that point, I didn't fully agree with you, because I didn't think they were calling first of all the ministers or at least not just ministers. You were talking about past times. Yesterday, Milos, code name Milos, was mentioned, and I see that part of the media was kind of weird. I don't think so. I think we need to talk about this. At the time they mentioned him, when they were unhappy with the decision. In some later times, other rulers. In communist times – Marshall and Marshall. I don't know if they knew the name of the minister of justice? In the '90s, we know who. Today, I believe that again their dissatisfaction with the judiciary or excessive expectation of justice, which is not easy to reach, bind to those who have the greatest political power at this time. I must say, Mr Selakovic, it is my political assessment that you, your own party, the ruling coalition in which you have been leading the government for 15, 16 months, have contributed significantly to such expectations of the public, this initial flight and enthusiasm. You yourself have very often appeared in the media, announced different judiciarys, different wars of courts, much more justice. When it is announced to people and citizens that it promises much more justice, their scale rises up so high that rarely the world's judiciary, and the Serbian judiciary that works in such political, above all, and social circumstances, can meet those expectations. And that's what's happening to you these days, or it's starting to happen to you. This is what marked the work of many governments and ruling coalitions before you. Which is why the LDP thinks that solutions to these laws are not globally good enough, or that they will not solve any of the fundamental problems of the Serbian judiciary. That's a little bit of what we're talking about here. So, the problems of the Serbian judiciary are not in these buildings, I rarely agree with Judge Ivosevic, but I agree with him that courts and courts are not buildings but are people in them. So these problems, Mr Selakovicu, the Serbian judiciary are not problems with buildings, travels, and even so many judicial networks. The problem of the Serbian judiciary is this 2006 constitution, and the constitutional law that came out of it, in a formal sense. In a political sense, it is guilty of those who did not have the courage to make a real constitutional change, constitutional discontinuity, and also constitutional discontinity in the area of the judiciary and that in 2006, there was a willingness and don't tell me that there is no responsibility for you, even though you were not directly involved in politics at the time, but a political party, whose self-conceived in some way, Mr Selakovic, and today the SNS participated in the creation and adoption of this Constitution. If that constitution had said that there was real discontinuity and that the courts were being established from the beginning, that judges were being elected from the beginning, we would not have all these problems that we have in the last five or six years, in the Serbian judiciary. When it comes to half-way solutions, when it is calculated by re-election and choice, when it is constantly entered into those interpretations, then the problem can never be corrected, Mr Selakovic, without recognition of error, serious constitutional reforms and taking on political courage and responsibility for the reform. As a result, the Serbian judiciary is not much better today than in the 1990s, in some it is more modern, the judges, even if some of them know much more, in some things they are freer than the authorities, in some, I think, and they are not. Some buildings are something better, some laws are something better and more European, but the spirit of the poor, unsustainable positions of the judiciary, even the judiciary, has not changed. He comes from some past times, Mr. Selakovic, who, I repeat, often, unwarrantedly embellish and romantically. We're all in some sort of delusion. You said at one point yesterday, and which authority is bigger than this? Happy democratic countries that have been developing their political tradition, representative democracy for decades or centuries, have not answered that question. They're constantly building a system where no organ is far above anyone else. We can make the most European laws here, as you say. The judicial authority here, essentially, deep in the psyche or ordinary people, and even those who work in the judiciary are not perceived and does not perceive themselves as the third branch of power, as an equal branch of government. That's why they're talking to you, Mr. Selakovic, and politicians like politicians, every handsome opportunity, especially when they're irresponsible, use to grab some positive justice stuff and get away when things aren't going well. It's almost general, chronic practice of our relationship to courts. The second or third problem that we are against this law, you see Mr Selakovic as it seems to be a debate for a day and a half, this is a poor country, this is a country that is still constitutionally unedited, so it's unregulated in that part that regulates its territorial organization, the different levels of that organisation, what cities, what municipalities are, why something is a city, why something is a municipality, why something is something, or should be another form of a local self-government unit, and that's why it's been such a problem, Mr Selakovic, that network of courts, which always marks the debate on judicial laws, is not just today, so it's been the last five six years. Of course, that every MP, especially those who come from small places, will die here to vote for a court or judicial unit in their place, or to praise you if you've assigned it to their place in this section of the map, unlike some of you who somehow distributed the cards differently. That is why we think that first, or first to change the Constitution, to reach a basic agreement on how this country should be organised, to talk, to Mr Selakovic and to those things that you talked about yesterday, not exactly, with those MPs who also spoke about Vojvodina. I can understand your principled, theoretical legal position, if you want when you talk about whether or not it can be in the organisational sense of the judiciary regarding autonomy, or the autonomous province, but I asked you yesterday and I asked you, Mr Selakovic, how you will defend it in a situation where you have a part of the law that says that de instituting the work of courts in a formal sense, in another Serbian province, leaves you with some special law. How are you going to build this Serbian judiciary building without that one piece, without solving that problem? We thought of this honesty when we also resented you in yesterday's debate and weeks before that when it comes to Kosovo's elections or politics towards Kosovo. What are those laws going to be, Mr. Selakovic? They won't bring any miracle, as you know. They will sort of formalise the current and future Brussels agreements, power ratios, political forces, demands of the international community. It would not be good to compensate for this type of failure or loss, to be an unfair relationship to another province, or perhaps to some other provinces that can be found in Serbia. I think it would be good for Serbia, asymmetry in autonomy is never good. More fortunate are countries that have established autonomy or regions throughout their territory. Their constitutional development, the development of their judiciary can help us a lot, Mr. Selakovic. Another question I'd like to open, I hope I get an answer, we've never really got an answer in this country to ask how much a year does it cost the citizens of this Serbia, the taxpayers, if you will, the judiciary? How much does that cost? It is difficult to determine from the budget itself, because of the different way of funding and budget financing and financing from taxis, but in a practical sense it is all a kind of public income, on the one hand, and the cost of citizens for that judiciary. Please tell us how much the system of justice costs at this point, how much will it cost when this new organization is established in the different laws you're proposing here? Then we can measure, see what's a positive effect, what we get, or what citizens get for this money they single out. It's a rule in all countries, it can't be done by the High Council of the Judiciary, by the judicial authorities. It's a topic for parliament, it's a parexelance, as you say, a political topic. It's part of the approach to justice. Access to justice is not just a matter of physical opportunity to come to court. I'd say the costs are higher, given how much I've been able to look at the budget, but you'll be sure I'm, you'll say it better. One more question, that's my insult to you, Mr. Selakovic. Yesterday, the front pages or the interior pages of some media, newspapers, were filled with your announcements about the initiation of the proceedings and the responsibilities of those you consider to be actually directly responsible for the damage done, i.e. the fact that there are now claims for compensation of some judges who have not been elected and are now returned. I think it's dangerous to do it that way, Mr. Selakovic. And I don't think it's worth it to get everyone away from that judicial reform, and it wasn't attended by two people or two women. These laws were adopted by this parliament, implemented by different authorities, participated in and part of the international community in some way, and I don't think it's good for you to say, and to fill the headlines that someone will pay that compensation for the damage, because then it can establish a dangerous precedent, Mr Selakovic. Then someone, some next minister, will be able to announce a procedure against all those who voted for, I don't know, a harmful energy arrangement that will cause this country billions of euros in damage over the next years and decades. Someone else will initiate procedures for political voting that have caused some other kind of damage. Then, Mr. Selakovic, there is no end, it destroys and the judiciary inside. It creates both clans and divisions of the chosen and returned, which you are also aware of, which you know exist in the Serbian judiciary, that there is still after so many months of some kind, once there was an impression of the people, and now it's a reflection of the returned, triumphalism. Yes, you did, and you contributed by announcing the membership of those people who were not then elected to the political party. Okay, if that was a mistake then, tell me after two years that it was a mistake, that someone else wouldn't repeat it. Thank you, I hope we can continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26375	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26376	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, has no doubt, having first and foremost in mind what was said during yesterday, which has been said so far in the debate that we will have one quality and contentious and very, I would say, good debate. In fact, it is in favour of the conclusion that we have a set of extremely important and significant legal proposals, and as far as the areas of justice are concerned, have very precise and clearly defined objectives, and whose results must be very quickly verifiable, but also visible and recognizable in that positive sense, because it is definitely at this point of general interest. We, as a Parliament club, want to believe that today we are talking about quality legal proposals that want to address the perceived shortcomings and failures in the current judicial reform, which wants to remove the negative consequences observed in the current judicial reform, but in particular, the quality of these legal proposals, we will be able to talk through a certain period of time when their concrete application first begins. At this point, I will repeat what Mr Petronijevic said, as an authorised representative of the parliamentary club, we as a parliamentary club support the intention and goal that is to be achieved by adopting these legal proposals, but in particular about the quality of the legal proposals we will be able to talk through a certain period of time. What I also want to say is that definitely judicial reform is one of the most significant reforms that are being implemented today in Serbia. It is one of the basic preconditions for continuing the successful path of European integration, but independent of the European path that Serbia should continue to go on. We need some things in the area of justice, and we have to do it for ourselves. We need to and must act because of Serbia's citizens, i.e. to improve the lives of Serbian citizens above all. It seems to me that in the opening statement, the very protection of human rights depends on the successful reform of the judiciary and the degree of democratisation of a society depends on the level of independence of the judiciary. On the other hand, I think you said that, we definitely agree that Serbia needs a modern and efficient judicial system. Serbia needs an independent and professional judiciary with full integrity, and it is very important, I think that this should be our common ultimate goal, to restore citizens' confidence in the Serbian judiciary, to have the judiciary they will believe in. I think the legal proposals we're talking about today have the intensity to make one qualitative shift, one step forward in this extremely important and important process for all of us. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown its determination very clearly when it comes to one determined, continuous, indistinguishable fight against crime and corruption, but in order for this fight to be overall successful, we must have a successful reform of the Serbian judiciary. So, considering, on the one hand, the importance and importance of the legislative proposals that we are talking about today, the intention and aim to achieve through the adoption of these legislative proposals, and, on the other hand, the negative consequences, i.e. the failures observed in the current judicial reform, which want to be removed, I must say that the legislator definitely had a difficult task to make legal proposals to regulate the organisation of the judiciary in Serbia, to enable and thus ensure the independence of the courts, the independence of the public prosecutors and to ensure the independence of the judges and the independence of the judges and the independence of the public prosecutors. We believe what you said in the opening statement, that a qualitative analysis of the situation in which the Serbian judiciary is located today was made immediately prior to the drafting of these legal proposals. We believe that the legal proposals that we are talking about today and that we will talk about in the coming days and during the debate in particular are actually a reflection of the real picture of the situation in which the Serbian judiciary is located today. I would say, as far as we're concerned, it's a clear intensities of the legislator, therefore, that through one transparent procedure, through clearly and precisely defined criteria, through quality public debate, respect for suggestions and a proposal from the professional public, some of the most rational solutions are made when it comes to the network of courts, when it comes to public prosecutions, and that in this way they are eliminated, the shortcomings observed in the current reform of the judiciary, and that in this way, let's say, the injustice that has been done to a number of local environments that have been left without their courts in the past time period. I purposely say to remove injustice, because it seems to me, more than once during yesterday's debate, that's what we're all agreeing, is the lost valuable time for the Serbian judiciary. That's what I'm saying, not to criticise what's been happening over the past few years, but for one simple reason, because I want to say that by removing the gaps, by removing the shortcomings that have been observed, we don't have time to make some new failures. I think that after 1946, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, the biggest reform in the Serbian judiciary started just in 2008 by adopting a set of seven legislative proposals, which began in 2010. We're in 2013. It ends in two months 2013 and today instead of talking about legal proposals that will make another qualitative shift in terms of continuing successful reform of the Serbian judiciary, we are somehow going back a few steps and correcting the shortcomings and failures that have been observed. I repeat, I don't want to criticize or talk about what happened over the past period of time. I think that we should learn from that period, affirm what was positive, if it was positive, and I think it is, and correct certain perceived shortcomings and try not to do these shortcomings and failures over the next period of time. There's something else I want to say. I think that somehow in 2008, she performed one wrong idea, that the entire justice system was anachron by 2008, that it was contrary to European practice and that it was contrary to European standards. That's our opinion. What is it that we specifically expect from the legal proposals we are talking about today? First of all, we expect what you have said – greater urgency and efficiency in the work of judicial authorities, quality of judicial proceedings, better and faster access to justice and faster resolution of court disputes. We agree that the judiciary needs and must establish a system of responsibility for high standards, when it comes to the holders of judicial functions. We agree that the evaluation and evaluation of the holders of judicial functions must be public and transparent and in the Serbian judiciary should not and should not be a place for the unconscious and unprofessional. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia very clearly envisioned the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the prosecution. It is precisely the objective of the proposed amendments to the Law on Judges and Proposed Amendments and the addition of the Law on Public Prosecutors that the consistent application of constitutional provisions, which govern the position of the judge, who regulates the position of public prosecutors, is in line with international standards in this area. So that what is very clear and precisely defined by the Constitution is also practically feasible. We are convinced that the Serbian judiciary has both the knowledge and the strength to come out of the difficult situation it is in. Also, we are convinced that the next debate in the Republic's parliament, when it comes to a set of judicial laws, on the continuation of judicial reform, will not be a step back, but a step forward, that we will not go back a few steps and say that we have an irrational, inefficient, expensive and bad network of courts in Serbia. At first, I said that we, as a Parliament club, support the intention and aim of the legislative proposals that are to be achieved. We've submitted a number of amendments. We are convinced that you will understand the importance, the importance, the goal we want to achieve by adopting these amendments. In this context, I want to say a few sentences at the very end, of course, you, as a minister of justice, realize that courts in smaller local communities, in smaller municipalities, are not only, I would say, the authority of the judicial authority, but are a special social phenomenon, that they have a certain social and local significance, that they are the headquarters where the most prominent, most educated people are gathered in that local environment. You can imagine how negatively, in the entire local environment, it reflects the departure of courts from that local environment. Not to mention that some courts in smaller local communities also have an age-old tradition in smaller municipalities. We'll talk about it during the debate in particular when we talk about the amendments submitted by the SPS Parliament Club, but I told you it was the ultimate goal. Mr. Minister, you said it started with the election of the president of the courts, and we think it's very good, that the Serbian judiciary is finally coming out of a v.d. a status that takes a long time. You said that these legal proposals increase the number of basic courts from 34 to 66, basic public prosecutors to 58. We believe that this is very good, but we also believe that you will have an understanding of the importance, the importance of the amendments that we have submitted, that you will correctly interpret the goal that we want to achieve these amendments and that you will accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26377	The word is made by MP Marko Milutinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26378	Thank you. President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, with all due respect to all my colleagues, I would not want today's debate to turn into a general debate that implies either praises of today's judiciary or prosecution without any reasonableness, especially after what was unfortunately during the term of the previous government, the previous calls for the High Council of Justice, the State Council of Prosecutors when huge mistakes and problems have been made that will be monitored in the long term by the Serbian judiciary. So today, when we discuss a set of these judicial laws, we need to know that the proposed amendments and additions of legal solutions can be classified into three categories. The first category is technical harmonisation with the current legislation and in relation to each other these four laws. The second category is something that, certainly, represents progress in relation to current applicable laws, primarily on the regulation of courts and on judges. Of course, in the third category, we should classify those things that are fundamentally important, which, in my deep conviction and my parliamentary groups, will have a negative impact on the judiciary in the next period. I'd like to start with the Court Order Act, and it was first proposed to a new institute of trial within a reasonable period of time. Although I deeply believe that the intention of the legislator was exclusively good, exclusively for the benefit of the citizens, I mean, I am convinced, and this seems to me to be thought and waist, that this is not how it will be achieved. My previous speaker said that the intention and purpose of the law should guide us, and the goal should certainly be efficiency in the trial, together and in the same way as justice in the trial and legality of the decisions that the courts make. I don't think that this approach can be introduced in this way in the Law governing court trials within a reasonable period of time and those definitions can be justified by the argument that the Court of Justice's rulings in Strasbourg v. Serbia are allegedly referred primarily to because of a lack of respect for the right to trial within a reasonable period. Yesterday, the minister also said in his debate that only a quarter of all complaints refer to a reasonable time-limit injury, while in three-quarters of cases it is precisely for other reasons and, above all, a violation of the rights due to the quality of legal protection problem, i.e. because of the expertise and the conditions in which the judges are working. In 20% of cases, a violation of the right to a fair trial has been found, while 54% of these complaints involve violations of other rights. That is why I deeply believe that these solutions should be deleted, because it is expected that this will only increase the number of cases in the courts in the Republic of Serbia and the citizens who are already in front of such overloaded courts will bring new lawsuits to several courts, a return effect will be created. Believe me, time will show who was right today, whether this way it will overload or not the judiciary. I honestly think that a reduction in the number of cases, i.e. efficiency in the handling of the work of the courts, can be provided in other ways. Soon we will also have a debate on the Law on Mediation, that is, amendments and additions to the law. It's the same kind of vision that we can speed up and make the judicial system more efficient. Also, we can legally agree that judicial assistants, whom there really are a lot of today at work in Serbia's courts, can get certain responsibilities for handling certain legal proceedings, first of all, in litigation, in small-value disputes, in criminal proceedings for some crimes where a sentence of up to five or eight years is prescribed. Why am I saying all this? The new Code of Criminal Procedure in one of its provisions provided that prosecutors, under the authority of the prosecutor, can take certain actions in the conduct of the proceedings and that to the judicial assistants if the sentence of prison is prescribed for up to five years and senior judicial assistants if a sentence of up to eight years is prescribed. I think that it is more comprehensive to create adequate conditions for judges to judge within a reasonable period, but only by introducing this institute will try to make justice and the availability of justice more effective for citizens. The next criticism is about the court's jurisdiction in Belgrade. You have now predicted that abuse of a responsible person's position would be a criminal offence and in the exclusive jurisdiction of a senior court. Right at the moment when, after the amendments to the Criminal Code, this crime fell into the jurisdiction of the basic courts and when the senior courts in the Republic freed these cases and left them to the basic courts to prosecute them, we will now return it to the jurisdiction of the higher courts, in which way only to slow down the entire criminal proceedings in that part again. Also, you have defined in the second-degree jurisdiction of the senior court that he will decide by the decisions of the first-degree, or basic courts for crimes where fines and prison sentences are prescribed for up to five years. First of all, I don't think that this formulation is adequate to you for the simple reason that it's supposed to be for acts where it's prescribed cumulatively cash and jail time for up to five years, and in doing so, I don't know if your intensity has been to solve higher courts for short proceedings in front of basic courts. If that was an intensities to you, then you should have in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure prescribed that it was up to eight years, but that's what we'll do when we come to the debate in detail. What is the biggest and fundamental problem and what we need to talk about, and it is about the Law on Judges, is the implementation of the provision of Article 40(8). Law on the Judicial Academy in the Law on Judges and Public Prosecutors, especially at the time when the procedure for assessing the constitutionality of such a provision of the law was initiated. I'm going to quote to you the sentiment of the Constitutional Court, which is an opportunity for the decision to initiate the procedure for the assessment of constitutionality. "It is disputed whether in this way a special condition is established for the evaluation of the professional competence of candidates as one of the general conditions for the selection of both the Law on Judges and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. For the Constitutional Court, the question arises as disputed – can initial training at the Judicial Academy be a crucial condition for the evaluation of expertise and training when proposing candidates for the first election for the judge of the criminal and the basic court and deputies in the primary prosecutor's office? The Constitutional Court shall assess whether the contested provisions violate the principle of equality of citizens in the same legal situation as those referred to in Article 21. The Constitution and infringements the Constitution guaranteeed the right to enter public functions under the same conditions as those laid down in Article 53. The Constitution. “ We had the opportunity to choose all the way to a candidate from the ranks of the judicial assistants at the previous judge’s session, for the administrative court, which is the court of the republican rank and for economic courts. With that in mind, I'm curious, when the Judicial Academy is an institution of such integrity and credibility, then why don't we allow all those who have completed their initial training at the Judicial Academy to be elected for courts and republican rank and for more courts, for appeals courts? Why limit yourself only to misdemeanors and basic courts? In addition, the Venice Commission believes it is okay that there is a Judicial Academy, but that it has not reached the capacity that corresponds to the people who have finished, or the members of the Judicial Academy by automatedism, being elected judges. I think there is a need for dialogue within the profession, within the judges, prosecutors, judges and prosecutors, what did not, unfortunately, happen in the previous period, and that is what I object to the ministry in this case. Also, I would like to say about the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Public Courts, Article 142. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says the judicial system is unique. Article 143(3) The constitution says no temporary, interrupted or extraordinary courts can be established. For this reason, it is impossible and cannot survive in our legal system a provision under which special legislation will regulate courts in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26379	The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26380	Dear President, Mr. Minister, cabinet members, colleagues and fellow MPs, today is the second day to discuss a set of judicial laws, which are extremely important, which has been proposed by the competent ministry and which continues to correct the mistakes made by the previous judicial reform blamed by the former regime, which will cost Serbia compensation for unselected judges around 15m euros. The proposed laws are a natural trail of events, given that they are in agreement with the National Strategy and the Action Plan, adopted in this National Assembly on a proposal from the competent ministry. First, I will refer to the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors as perhaps one of the most important laws on the agenda today, without diminishing the importance of other legal proposals. By 2008, citizens knew where the courts were to seek justice. There were municipal and county courts. Such a network of courts far from being perfect, but with changes and a new network of courts and the introduction of only 34 basic courts and even 102 judicial units, there has been chaos with both judges and judicial staff, with lawyers, experts and citizens. A bill like this, which is before us, I hope it will be able to mitigate the catastrophic consequences of the existing network of courts. It is important that the basic criteria of this Ministry of Justice for the establishment of courts and judicial units are the number of inhabitants, the territory covered, as well as the size of the work. In some courts, judges are in charge of as many as 400 cases, while some judges in judicial units have only about 50 cases. Some places lost their courts unfairly. Many of my colleagues mentioned the AP Vojvodina yesterday. They said they believe that Vojvodina was damaged by the proposed changes, but now we have to finally establish a court in Vrbas, a court in Backo Palanca, Shid, Vienna, in Senta. The newly-sad basic court will be relieved, which had 10 judicial units, so Vrbas will have the Tower and the Serbian. Subtice will have Senta. Bačka Palanka is founded for the area of Bac. They'll have Vienna's primary court. The high court in Somboro will disburse the Supreme Court in Novi Sad. We should also look at the fact that one day of the judge is in the unit and how productive he is there. A judge who has a day there must travel to a unit more than 50 kilometers. He can't get a chance to do his juvie, he can't write the verdicts. There are maybe two, three hearings for the main debate, the parties often don't come and then there's a lot of empty walking and the judge isn't productive as much as he would be in his basic court. Also, judges who travel to court units or come to some even later and leave work early because the working day takes eight hours, so that their trip will be in those eight hours, while some work eight hours and travel, so their working day is often 10 hours, and they are equally paid. They're getting equal profits. All these trips cause additional costs for witnesses, both for experts and lawyers, and all these costs fall on the burden of the state. The existing network of courts has made there, too, an unequal burden on different courts, so I hope that this bill will take care of the inflow of cases and the percentage of resolved cases. As far as the draft law on the regulation of courts is concerned, it is important that, in my view, unlike a previous colleague, the jurisdiction of a senior court, which will relieve the work of the basic courts. Also, the most important thing is that more attention will be paid to equating judicial practice which, although not with us is a source of law, I find it extremely important. It happened in the same legal case that first-degree courts made the same judgment, that the cases went to the second-degree court, that the same court adopted a bigger appeal, abolished the verdict and returned to the first-degree trial, while the second-largest of the same court felt that the appeal had not been established. In this way, by establishing, means by unifying court practice, I think that the issue of legal certainty will finally be resolved and I welcome this provision. Also, the introduction of a special trial procedure within a reasonable period of time, I believe, will contribute to a more effective trial. It has happened that court proceedings take 10 and more years, that hearings for the main debate are incessantly delayed due to the illness of the judges, because of the disease of the witches, because of the diseases of the parties. We have an example of a status dispute, where the lawsuit was filed in 2006. For the first time, the status working dispute ended with a first-degree verdict in 2012, after six years. The verdict was suspended and the trial was scheduled for January 2014. So much for efficiency. I consider this procedure an effective trial within a reasonable period of time, and I hope there will be no more such examples. As for the proposal for a law on judges and prosecutors, it is important that candidates for judges, i.e. deputies, will have to have completed the Judicial Academy, that the evaluation of the work of the judges will be carried out by the board of the High Council of Justice, which will be made by the tripartite commission. Yesterday, a colleague mentioned that the minister would have discretionary authority in electing judicial trainees and that the average criterion was deleted. I think that's good because it doesn't mean that every judicial intern, a volunteer with a good average, will be a good judge and judge, and I think that the Ministry should also deal with the impeachment that exists in most of our courts, where we have a large number of judicial assistants who are children just a judge from that court, so it's just amazing to me that they're just the ones who are competent to be judicial assistants. With this set of judicial laws, I hope that it will allow more judges to be elected, as well as judicial staff to work more effectively in court. A previous reform of the judiciary has led to 20 people from the former regime. Unlike then, today these bills were submitted by the Ministry of Justice who went through a public debate, which received a positive opinion from the Venice Commission. With all this in mind, the SNS in voting day will give support to these laws and I call on all our colleagues to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26381	Right on line, MP Marko Milutinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26382	Thank you. I'm reporting because I was misread here when my colleague mentioned it - unlike the previous speaker. So, fellow Members, it's not that I think basic courts should continue to suffer. I am the Supreme Court's judge's assistant in Belgrade, and I am currently a national envoy here. This is what I'm telling you... (Biljana Pantic Pija, from the place: You have no right to speak directly to me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26383	I'm asking my colleague not to speak directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26384	I'm sorry, my bad. So, just as someone who comes from practice and who deals with this in the senior court's criminal department, I'm telling you that this is a bad time to get us back into the jurisdiction of a senior court, abuse of a responsible person's position, when exactly the senior courts transferred everything because they announced themselves to really incompetent primary courts. Of course we don't need to bury the basic courts with new cases, but in this case, it will take longer. So we're not going to get justice. So the defendants will not be able to use their right to confirm their innocence or they won't be able to prove their guilt and that's what I said. You know how, one is reading the arguments of all these laws, which of course will be positive, that the legislator will do it in a positive way, and the other is in practice. In no way in this discussion did I want to be maliced, but I am about to point to anything that might contribute to having a better and more orderly judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26385	Right on line, MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26386	Thank you. My dear colleague, I have plenty of practice, since I was a judge... (President: Please do not address the People's Messenger. I'm sorry. It was stated that I explained the laws using the reasons of the Ministry of Justice, which is absolutely not true. I'm someone who was a court volunteer and I know exactly how the basic and senior court works. I was a district court volunteer in Novi Sad, then a senior court, and now I'm a lawyer and I think I have enough practice to talk about this. Someone who's a judge's assistant, I don't see how he can be an MP if we're talking about the neutrality and independence of the court. Thank you. (Marko Milutinović, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26387	Now you have no basis. It wasn't about your discussion. Mrs. Pilia was talking about her discussion. She said she didn't use any arguments and made something she thought was her opinion. So I really don't think you have a basis. (Marco Milutinović, from the place: Give me your word.) I'll give you my word to hear what's going on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26388	I didn't mean my colleague at all, really. As a judge's assistant, I have the status of a civil servant, which the minister yesterday said in his presentation. I'm right. I'm not the bearer of a judge or a public prosecutor's office so I can't be a MP, I'm a civil servant and there's no such incompatibility of these functions. I am at a standstill in the High Court in Belgrade, and when I stop this mandate, I can return. It is the apropo of what the law allows and allows for still existing laws. So much for that. I didn't want to insult anyone for one moment, nor do I think that because I'm a judge I understand maybe in a lawyer so much. I've just expressed this as something that's been an impression and what's been happening in practice, without any bad intentions, just in order for our judiciary to be as effective as possible, and not for these criminal proceedings to continue to linger and diverge. Anyone who wanted to listen to me well could see that there was no evil intentions, but that I just wanted to point out one thing that, of course, came from practice and that's my explanation of why I think it was better. I admit, I didn't make it. I didn't make the amendment to that part. I have submitted an amendment regarding the second-degree jurisdiction of the High Court. I hope that everyone in this congregation will be allowed to point out and give some criticism for the best possible purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26389	As you can see, everyone is allowed to point to criticism and that is one of the things the National Assembly must provide to all the MPs. The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26390	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yesterday I did not get the presidential right to the replica, so I would use the beginning of the exhibition to explain some of the things that concern yesterday's judicial proceedings in Vojvodina and the general topics that were touched yesterday in the discussion of the authorised representative of the Serbian Progressive Party, as well as the earlier presentation of a colleague. Do you know how many municipalities in Vojvodina after the adoption of this law will neither have a judicial unit nor a court? I'll tell you - 40% of the municipalities in Vojvodina, they won't have a judicial unit or a court? Your commitment by gentlemen of the ruling coalition to accept this law that will practically halve the number of municipalities in which citizens will be able to exercise their right to justice should put a question mark on whether this is a political document, or a party, or whether it should correct the situation in the judiciary? According to this proposal, the law on the network of courts Bac, Srbobran, Plandište will have neither the court nor the judicial unit, Sečanja, Nova Crnja, Baki Petrovac, Beocin, Froglj, Temerin, Titel, Alibunar, Kovačica, Irig, Pećinci, Ada, Kanjiža, Apatin, Odzaci. Yesterday, the minister spoke of a variety of reasons which were identified by the legislator for the fact that a municipality should have a court. Geographical and atmospheric and all other reasons have been mentioned. Some municipalities have more snow days than others, etc., etc. I understand that, but take an example of one municipality in Vojvodina, Baki Petrovac, who through history has always had a court, which is a municipality of 70% of the minority population, the Slovak population, which is not so close to Novi Sad and whose citizens will not be able to exercise their right to use language and letter in another municipality. I should hear from the minister, which is why these municipalities, as well as some other municipalities in Vojvodina, such as Ada, Kanjiza, etc., have no judicial unit? On the other hand, when we talk about law-making, we usually talk about some material sources of rights that affect the creation of normative acts, or laws. What are the social conditions in which this law arises? We know what kind of justice it is today, that it is quite ineffective, that it is to a good degree independent, of course it goes to the soul of the ruling coalition, that these laws do not respond to such a situation, or we do not see from them that it will fix such a situation. They, as my colleague Stefanovic said yesterday, are primarily cosmetic and technical. They're dealing with some kind of math, where they put up a court, and that's more favourable for the authorities in that municipality, where they can abolish the court, but I don't see the answer to these questions in these laws. That's why the Democratic Party cannot support them. How to increase efficiency in courts, how to increase independence, how to determine whether judges perform their duties in an adequate and legal manner, because in the laws adopted in the previous period, which you criticised, or representatives of a parliamentary group belonging to the same party, the system has been set in that period, the criteria for assessing the work of judges have been set. Did we better define these criteria through these laws that the judge, for example, should have an outdated case, as the aged case case case case was, your minister criticised the judiciary yesterday, through a criticism of the judiciary, also criticised you. She can't come to her senses that she's an out-of-date case for a misdemeanor committed against her director. How old is Mr. Minister's case "Jugoscank", i.e. Jezimir Vasiljevic and a number of others, these are just media known cases? What did you do on that plan to get into these laws without such things happening? Since my colleagues will also speak in more detail about these laws, I believe that the inadmissible influence of the legislative and executive authority on the third level, or the pillar of power, of the judicial authorities to see this through the media performances of the executive authority's representatives in words spoken for a pay phone in the National Assembly, where someone is declared guilty in advance, although the presumption of innocence exists as a basic principle. On the other hand, Minister, you said yesterday ignorance of the law damages, that is, how in some years of law school learns, ignoring chases nights. It's not just about citizens who need to know the law, and if they don't know it, it's harmful to them. Ignorance means ignoring, ignoring, ignoring laws and legality harms and, if it is done by the authorities, in the sense of not allowing justice, quick and effective justice. This morning, Mr. Milivojevic spoke of violence, the fact that we were becoming a country with more and more crimes in the area of violence, that we had the Law on Amnesty. Did we make a good introduction to strengthening the rule of law, by passing this Law on Amnesty and whether now with these laws that you put into the assembly procedure, you correct that mistake, or by making changes for changes that will not make any better for the Serbian judiciary and justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26391	Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26392	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, really carefully following the discussion, I try to react when someone's discussion mentions really harsh and notorious untruths. Just in the previous presentation, I hope not intentionally, a few such notorious lies. I don't understand how someone who advocates an independent judiciary expects the executive to question why something is obsolete and why it isn't. If we're building an independent judiciary system, then those who run the judiciary should be questioned why a court procedure didn't act the way it was supposed to be done. If this is expected by an executive and to be done by a representative of the executive authority, the same ones who are today calling for independence will jump with a remark and a sermon that it is a blow and an attack on an independent judiciary, or it is a blow and an attack on an independent judiciary, when you react in a case that does not suit you, and in the event it corresponds, it is not an attack on an independent judiciary. What notorious untruth is spoken of? It is not true that the criteria for the assessment of the work of legal holders are adopted in the previous period. Absolutely untrue or someone might consider it a measure of political resemblance, a criterion that was passed in the previous period, so when it was violated... (People's MP Janko Veselinovic throws out of town. I didn’t say that nobody said that, and I ask that you do not enter my word, as I do not enter you. Therefore, the criteria for the assessment of the work of judges and prosecutors have not been passed. Some were passed a little over ten years ago, making sense out of that angle only considered that a lustration law was implemented, and since it wasn't done either, then it didn't make sense either. The last effectively applied was brought in, if I'm not mistaken, in the early 1990s. In 1993. Maybe you were thinking about them? I don't know. Again, I urge you to be rational and to be honest. You are now saying that the working group that has been formed, which has established criteria and which has even put forward a proposal, which is in 95% contained in this proposal for a law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, that it has decided on the political resemblance that is where in power, so it is reported to be the establishment of a basic court. No proposal is perfect, but I'm going to prove to you that this current state, according to the applicable law of 2008, has been consumed in some things by great contradictions for no apparent reason. Here, for example, you mentioned that the town of Secnej would be left without a judicial unit. There are cases for 1.01 judges in the Municipality of Sečanja for a year. So there's work for a judge and that's why there's a judicial unit. Following the inflow of cases, we can basically claim that there will be no more judges in the next year. At the same time, you have a municipality of Golubac in which even under the applicable law there is absolutely no court or judicial unit, nothing in which there are cases for more than two judges. Let's just say there's nothing going to be in Batch. You didn't mean to say that this law provides for the establishment of a basic court for the area of the municipalities of Bac and Backo Palanka. Are you saying that it was closer for people to travel from Bacha to Novi Sad than for Bucky Palanco? I believe that none of the citizens of Bac will support it because it knows very well how far Bac is from Novi Sad and how far from Backa Palanca. In one thing, you said something that's true. And I will say it without a problem, because I also say it when an MP says something that I agree with and I think it's good, regardless of which group and party he comes from. It's just one principle I stick to. I don't understand the views of those who claim that the sky is about to collapse on us, the country has broken down and the whole of Serbia has gone into a abyss, and they often know that they are showing the current state. I am encouraged that every time after such discussions, even in some things that are criticised in such a way, there seems to be some relationship between this criticism, the development of the situation. But it is said -- we do not see that these laws will respond to the biggest problems of the Serbian judiciary. That's perfectly legitimate. Because someone doesn't see it, he's in opposition, and the one who sees it is in power. We have our own policies. We're different. Everyone gets an opportunity to influence the direction the state will move and to regulate institutions and the situation in society as much as it is in its jurisdiction. What truth did you tell me about Buck Petrov? Baki Petrovac as a place that, let's call it, is some kind of capital of our fellow citizens of Slovak nationality, a place that has a historical weight for them because the Slovaks first moved to Bačka Petrovac. I am convinced that amendments have been submitted here and that this has been done by several parliamentary groups and I absolutely support it. We'll see in the discussion in detail, but not to speak now in detail. Some of the MPs spoke in principle because it was a debate in principle. You say – how many municipalities in the AP Vojvodina will not have a court or judicial unit, and then you state – the Serbs, the Plandište, Bačka Petrovac, Ada, Kanjiža, Sječanj, Žitište, Alibunar, Odzaks, Apatin. You didn't list a Beocin who never even had a court. You listed Irig, and Irig never had a court and there's an extremely low number of cases. I just need to draw your attention to something that I think is very important. The proposal contained in the bill, which concerns the proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, almost identically forwarded part of the working group working in courts and prosecutors in the field of New Sad Appellate at the time of the office of the President of the Court of Appeal nine months ago. The previous performer of the functions of the Court of Appeals is the man who led the subgroup, who almost identically made this up. Based on what? By handling the primary reasons, which is the number of cases, the functioning of the judiciary, the rationalisation of its work and making it much more efficient. The ministry also accepted the proposal as an incorporater in the bill and brought it before the MPs. In these things, the most important question is waist. I'm glad that in any situation where we can bring things into that state that the most questionable profession, and I have the feeling that in this matter now, the waist is more asked than it has in any other period, whatever it is, and the goal is that every time more and more professions are asked in these things, we have come up with this kind of a solution. Someone doesn't agree with that eventually. He has the right to disagree with that. If the MP is ever through the amendments, it affects the change in what is proposed and it is legitimate and will always experience such a way of debate on our part. Once again, I want to mention something I said yesterday, and it would be good if you really understood it, and not just choose words when the minister says something and you like it, so you quote it, and when you don't like it, you don't quote it. That's legitimate. So where there won't be a judicial unit, and there's work to be done for the trial, not to the extent that there can be paid and there's a judicial unit, there will be trials. That's what citizens need to know. Especially in places that are pretty far from the court. The law provides for a significantly smaller number of places that will be far from the court's seat where there is no judicial unit. The local self-government units that will be referred to the court's headquarters are better connected. Let's go back to what was just asked. I call it the whole society, from the MPs to any minister, to every citizen. You want to know why some object is obsolete. Ask the President of the Court. Do not expect answers to such questions to be given by one who does not have almost any or minor jurisdiction in this regard. Ask the judge, ask the president of the court. I am convinced that each of you judges, when they reach a verdict, that there is no problem behind that verdict and that there is no problem in getting to the cameras, going to the press and saying, yes, I have reached a verdict for that and for that reason. I can keep it to myself, but if the public's interest is for a decision and why the decision was made in such a way, please, judge, go before your people, in whose name you judge, and say, I made that decision because the law prescribed it, that and that, and it is my duty to apply the law. The ultimate population is to go out and ask the minister – the minister, and why is that obsolete for you? Well, when he hears it here, from the parliamentary benches, any citizen with full legitimacy can ask any minister, unrelated to who he is today, who will be in power tomorrow. You mentioned one case that got old, where the man was, if I'm not mistaken, four years in custody. Is it normal anywhere in the world? Four years. One more thing, come on, I'm going to quote again a colleague who's not here today, but he did say a very important thing yesterday. This is on the line of the ultimate bribery, although I believe that whoever said this had no intention and that he had good intentions. He says – why does Baki Petrovac not even have a judicial unit, so citizens will not have the right to use language and letters officially. I say again, official use of language and letters is regulated by the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters. There is a clear will and intention to define this issue by the new Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, and we have made a commitment, in the Action Plan of the National Strategy for Justice Reform, to adopt a new Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. Does a citizen who is a member of a minority national community have the right to conduct proceedings in his own language? Of course he's right. Again, I am proud that this right is not denied in the Republic of Serbia. We've got some problems. We have problems, let's say, in a neighborhood where I'm from, in the Raska area, and I have to talk about it openly. There we have a problem with a large number of procedures because a number of citizens are asking to conduct the procedure in Bosnian. Someone mentioned The Hague tribunal a little while ago. I think the Hague tribunal, and the European Commission, too, has resolved the issue in a very rational way. They call it one name, which I disagree with, so-called. BHS, but they claimed that it was a language that was very well understood by all participants in the procedure. I will, on my part, influence that such a principle applies here, because we will have a major problem in the functioning of a system of state administration and justice in general. Even when Croatia enters membership, the EU has identified the language that is in their official use as the language that is in official use in Serbia as well. Politically we can differ, linguistically I think it's an undivided opinion, that at this point it's one language. Is there a problem? Yeah, but in this case, I don't think there's one and there won't be any. We'll talk about the details in the debate. I have something else to say on this subject, but once again I have a duty to say – no criteria and criteria for the assessment of the work of judges have been adopted in the previous period. If they were, many problems would not exist and the question would not now be asked – why does someone who is returned and not need to be returned, or someone says – why does someone who has been chosen and who should not be elected remain in that position? But it is not upon us, nor on the messengers of the people, nor on the ministers, nor on the executives, nor on the legislative authority, to appreciate who is like, and who is not. There is the High Council of the judiciary, at this point the Working Group for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the High Council of the judiciary, for amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council of Prosecutors, is doing its job. It is time for them in the last quarter of this year, according to the Action Plan, to finish the job, to deliver their draft law to the ministry, the Ministry of Government and I am confident that this will be in front of the MPs, so that we can also talk about it. There's something else that's been said. He says, "What have we done to make things better?" There are in these laws, as many as some believe that interventions are cosmetic and technical, I say again, the ministry followed here the work of the task force. The task force was made up of renowned judicial experts, from law enforcement, from the profession, and I'm surprised that someone remains blind when it comes to extending that limitation period for disciplinary violations. It is necessary to look at the previous three and a half years of disciplinary violations in the High Council of the Judiciary and how old it is in the State Council of Prosecutors, which only this year received its disciplinary bodies. All we need to do is look at the number of disciplinary violations against judicial officials has become obsolete. Here, the deadline extends to two years and lays the groundwork for these two independent bodies to work much better, to gain better working conditions and to form bodies that will deal exclusively with these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26393	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26394	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, Mr. President, in no science, real and imaginary numbers can be added together. The number of basic courts with the number of judicial units cannot be collected, because, according to my humble legal knowledge, the cases being tried in the basic courts are different from the cases being tried in the judicial units, the courts are found guilty and a good part of the case, and a small part of the case is tried in the judicial units. Therefore, the number of 34 cannot be collected with the number of 102, as is the applicable law of the judicial units. I'd like to see some things with real eyes and real eyes. Under the current Law on the Network of Courts, the territory of the AP Vojvodina operates and operates eight basic courts. Under a new law, which I am sure will receive full support from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, there will be 15 basic courts. Let's look at it in a realistic and real way, that according to the current Law on the Network of Courts in South Bačka County was only one basic court and that court in Novi Sad for municipalities and Bac and Baka Palanka and Bačka Petrovac, Beocin, Becej, Vrbas, Froglj, Novi Sad, Sremski Karlovci, Srbobran, Titel, Temerin. You're saying it's good and right for the citizens of Vrbasa to, say, travel 60 km, a Serb 60 km, a Batch 62 km, to get to Novi Sad... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And that these people don't need to have a basic court in Verbas for these municipalities and travel to the basic court for 10, 12, or 15 km? Let's talk about reality and real numbers, and let's not combine what children in Serbia say – grandmothers and frogs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26395	Before I give the replica to Mr Veselinovic, as some colleagues asked what was the basis, it was the basis for the mention of the SNS parliamentary group at the beginning of the presentation. Here you go, Mr. Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26396	The full exposure of the authorised SNS representative yesterday was dedicated to the previous term of office, i.e. the government in which the DS was headed by the coalition, so I did not get a replica. True, not from you, but from your deputy. I suppose you'd be much more intolerant about that. I'm not going to say that the minister has brought out harsh lies or, as he has qualified, the truth that struck him, but the fact is that none of the things I've said has been denied. On the other hand, ministers, in the Law on Judges, from Articles 33 to 37 are norms, not to say criteria, concerning the evaluation of judges. I asked you through my discussion, or I thought it would be good if you had established more detailed criteria by which judges would be evaluated. There are already standards here, and it is said: “The evaluations relating to the evaluation of judges are: they are extremely successful in performing a judicial function, they are successfully performing a judicial function and they are dissatisfaction. ” And what's that? But I, Mr. Minister, worry about something else. You dead cold have crossed over the fact that objects in Serbia are outdated. You slept peacefully after the case was deprecated. You, by all accounts, slept peacefully when the subject of "Yugoscanka" was outdated. You are very sensitive to the four years Mr. Jezimirovic spent in custody. Don't tell us anything about the detentions, Mr. Minister. (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And not to mention the fact and suffering of people who have been damaged by this famous "Yugocan", or Master of the Horse, and you have no pity for them. And you're not worried that this case is out of date. And you're looking forward to having the state pay him back the damage he says he's going to share to the poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26397	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26398	The truth never hits me, I'm standing in front of the truth and I have no problem facing it. You can approach and see I'm not dead cold, I'm very alive and warm. And I'm not going over the facts, but I'm just leaving the job to deal with whoever's in charge of this business. Therefore, do I like that in Serbia things become obsolete? No, I don't. I think that's very bad. I think it is, and I'm trying to be as objective as possible, unlike some who can be "objective" for a time and not for a while, that's the chronic problem with the Serbian judiciary. You name two cases, where it's some a little more audible names. Is there any number of out-of-date cases where few ordinary citizens are interested that we don't know about? Is that good? That's not good. I think it should be removed, but it must not be removed by the National Assembly, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, or by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but by the Serbian judiciary. The Serbian judiciary has received budgetary authority over the past few years and over the next few years. That's good. When I talked about independence yesterday, on the one hand, and responsibility, on the other hand, they're going to get their budget, and they're going to pay for their work or their hard work and stuff from that budget. I believe that in this, a significant majority of us, especially lawyers, especially those who deal with the judiciary, are in agreement. In this case, much more will be taken into account as to how it is handled, whether the hearings are scheduled for 12 months or are scheduled, if there is room, much more often, whether the rulings are made within a reasonable period, whether the decisions taken under the legal remedy are taken adequately, whether decisions are taken on the legal remedy are taken on a reasonable basis and not decided whether detentions are determined and determined, etc. You say, "Don't let me talk about it." And why don't I talk about it when as justice minister, I've inherited thousands and thousands of claims for damages to the face of unfounded freedoms, for over 120,000 days of unfounded detention, in a period of time before I took office as Minister of Justice and State Administration? Many of us have criticised, therefore, and I myself have been someone who criticized the current Code of Criminal Procedure, whose work I did not participate in, whose adoption I did not take part in, but the state took the obligation to start applying that code. It is my opinion that there is one, in the sea of the bad, on the good side, which is that for the first time we will have much more and much better defined responsibility for the work of prosecutors, which will also take care of what they accuse and what they will not charge. Because, for what they're accusing, in the case of a misdemeanor in the case of a court of law, the jury's budget will be eligible, not the court's budget. So if they can't pay, then they won't be able to pay. The big problem with our judiciary, and I have to talk about it openly, is the fact that it's an unsustainable system, that it's a system in which a long, long, long time just takes and what it takes doesn't matter how it is taken. Yesterday, in one wrong way, my words were interpreted when I spoke of the judges' salaries. I do not advocate that these salaries be less, I am even someone who thinks that at any moment when the opportunity is acquired they should be even higher, but that every legal holder must be aware of how hard it is to earn that money in Serbia. Who knows best? He knows his privates best. And anyone who's been doing some business in private knows how hard it is to make 30 and 40, let alone 100 or 120,000 dinars. That's what people know best. Citizens don't give a shit when they come to any state authority, or to court, when the door closes under his nose, when he's down the counter, when someone doesn't appreciate him as a citizen, and he's the one who pays the budget, and out of that budget the salaries are paid, to anyone who works in service activities, whatever branch of the government that you're doing, they belong to you. A clearer finding was made just before, which I did not understand again, that the criteria for the assessment of work had been adopted in the previous period. You know, what the law says, and what you were talking about, without the adoption of the rules by the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, is absolutely inconclusive. Those two bodies had, if I'm not mistaken for six months to bring those acts, so half of 2010. They didn't bring it, and so did many others. Then the National Assembly came to the aid of the judicial authority when it passed a law that allowed the choice of judges and deputy prosecutors elected for three years to serve on a permanent basis. So, if it hadn't been for the MPs, if it hadn't been for the National Assembly, Serbia would have lost first all the judges of the criminal courts, and only the courts of regular jurisdiction not to talk about what the number is. So something would happen that would create a huge, perhaps incorrective system problem. Why? Because the High Council and the State Council didn't do their job. Then the basic question arises, now I'm touching something that you were just talking about, is it possible that in Serbia someone can't answer because he didn't do his job? The laws say it is, which means the laws in that part are bad. Whoever didn't do his job, or did it, but in a very bad way, he must be held accountable. You know, they don't have high-paying public officials because they're God-given to those places, but because they're pulling one exceptional responsibility because of the functions they're in, and because of the possibility of making moves that the legal system gives them jurisdiction. I'll give you one case, I think it'll be interesting for everyone, especially the citizens. A little more, not more, but more than 10 years ago, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, one of the ministers who entered his ministry was elected to the office of one important minister, past all the applicable regulations governing the status of civil servants, employees, in his ministry, to carry out something called "cleanliness". He fired over 350 people. It's totally against the law. So a little less than 10 years ago. The people who were fired folded up sued the state. Suddenly there were 350 disputes in front of the courts. The next minister who came to run the portfolio saw in his ministry's records while still keeping records, we are now establishing them, therefore the records of disputes in which the ministry is one of the parties, saw that there are 350 disputes. He asked his service for general and legal affairs, he had, I suppose, a meeting with the deputy attorney, and they told him it was quite certain that the state would lose all 350 disputes, because the minister was simply firing people with his own political will. What happens after that? The prime minister who saw this happen, using his ties and ties in the judiciary, has managed for years to extend judicial judgments in these disputes. And as it happens, in times of government's shift, after the election, judges in these 350 disputes make one-off decisions. Now you have a situation where one ministry filled with systematization, where you have no seats, where you don't have the financial resources to pay 350 people more, you have judgments on which you have 350 people to get back to work. And not only bring them back, but to make up for their outstanding earnings for the whole previous period. I'm asking one question, and I'm asking every citizen, probably when he hears this story. Who's gonna pay for that? The minister who is now at the head of that resort, he had one conversation with me, I advised him to sue whoever was making such illegal decisions, and to seek compensation for the damages. Because the ministerial post is not only with power, but also with responsibility. I don't believe that there will be anyone in Serbia who will say that if someone does harm knowing that they are doing something against the law, that damage should not be compensated. I think it's a perfectly correct approach. Otherwise, anyone can do whatever they want. I didn't set an example for one ministry where it happened 13 years ago. You have everything and everything, all kinds of examples. Once again, I will draw attention to, no, I do not experience or accept the easy information that some of the cases are outdated, but I will address the competent authorities, and the competent disciplinary authorities of the High Council of the Judiciary or the State Council of Prosecutors, which should check why this happened. Is there anything I can do to affect that, I can do to a dose of one because I'm a member of those two organs as a function? And I can ask these questions, and I ask these questions, and I use this function of the Constitution and the law in the intended way, because I am convinced that memberships acting as chairman of the Assembly Committee and the minister of justice in these two, are exactly the voice of the citizens who need to be heard where the voice of the profession is mostly present. That's why I'm asking most of the complaints to be resolved by these authorities and why I think they need them both professionally and professionally, materially and technically, to deal with them in a satisfactory way and with the corresponding profits when we talked about yesterday. That's why we're here to support and I believe that we will support all of us who advocate true independent justice. I'm sorry I took so long, but I think I touched these things you said. Especially what you said about the criteria and that time was not spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26399	Thank you. Janko Veselinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26400	I really won't answer my word anymore, I don't think I have anything to say about what the minister said but because his presentations take a very long time. He is, by all accounts, endowed with school class and can't last a little while, with a little break, it lasts 45 minutes. I can't think of a minister to measure your temperature. So, you've invited me to sort of see if you have a higher or lower temperature. First of all, I want to hear from you the answer as to whether you, as the responsible minister in charge of the area of justice, are also aware of your responsibility. That in a year and a half you could have done something to keep these cases from happening. But your option is to propose amendments to the law, to propose new laws. So, laws like this, laws that we've been given to justice, but not these, because they're cosmetic. In this part when we talked about the criteria relating to the judges, that is, it was necessary to find a way for a judge whose outdated case doesn't get what it is now, which, in the last election, the judges got the highest court office that deprecated the case of Pahomia. When I was talking about that you shouldn't be talking about unfounded detentions, I was saying, in the light of Mr. Cvian's opinions about detentions and unfounded detentions. On the other hand, I would like you to answer one question that I have not been able to ask, which is how you will speed up and improve the efficiency of the judiciary, i.e. the prosecutor's office in the situation when, for example, the prosecutor's office in Vrbas, the Serbbran, is for them the competent prosecutor's office in Sombor, and the SUP Novi Sad covers Vrbas and Srbobran. On the other hand, the prosecution in Zrenjanin covers Vienna, and on the other hand, the SUP Novi Sad covers Vienna.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26401	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26402	Let's start with this last thing you said. First, it has not been a lonely case in Serbia at all. You deal with the judiciary a little better, on the one hand, with police administrations, on the other hand, with the organization of administrative districts, and you will see that there was absolutely no inconspicuous appearance in our system. Unfortunately, we still have a situation where many things depend and are directly related to the personal communication of leaders and certain organs. I don't know how you asked me that question just for a Wrbas who's almost 60 kilometers from Novi Sad where the prosecutor from Novi Sad had to go by now. So here, with the right of a number of MPs, there was a question of a big problem of theft, especially in rural areas, because the only prosecution for the 10 municipalities of one city, where 680,000 people live, is one in Novi Sad. He must pursue everything from the one who inflicts severe physical injuries to the one who steals something worth 10.15 thousand dinars. Then it's no wonder you have such a high-level theft. Why? Because one is the only prosecution. The deputy prosecutor is now due to come to an insight into Vrbas and to travel from Novi Sad. I'm surprised such problems weren't seen at all. Of course, as I said, there are political differences, someone says that essential things are cosmetics, probably cosmetic things are essential, from my point of view, we differ, and something by reading the findings, or the opinions of the Venice Commission, I didn't see them talking about cosmetics. They've taken some serious questions seriously, they've turned their attention to where more attention is needed, I mean some regulations, but as far as temperature measurements are concerned, I don't want to react at all, because if you first claim to someone that they're dead and cold, and then you're just saying that you're not going to measure their temperature, I don't know how you came to that at all. Do these laws contain, in part, measures that should prevent these negative phenomena in the Serbian judiciary that you spoke of, such as obsolescence, contain. So, to one extent, they contain, yes. You would never have talked about cases of someone's choice, if we hadn't had four years ago the election of people to certain, very important and high functions that were presidents of the council, whose cases were outdated, but they were very close to the governing structure, so they were elected to some important judges, and you were just talking about a place that wasn't a judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26403	The word is Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26404	The President-in-Office, member of 107, does not refer to the minister's presentation. Please, there is a man in this SNS delegation room who you will not be able to learn to speak, but please, even if you remind him of the respect of the Rules of Procedure, not to speak as others speak, or to throw offensive expressions towards the DS parliamentary group, and this is not the first time, it is not just me, it is all my colleagues who speak from these lines.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26405	I ask the People's Messengers not to profit from the place as the Messengers speak. The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26406	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, present members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as the last in a series of judicial laws under discussion, provides for solutions that are properly proposed and as regards amendments to the Law on Judges, with certain specificities concerning the position and functions of the Public Prosecutor's Office. As a basic newspaper, the law provides for the prosecutor's obligation to reject any action that influences the independence of the prosecution's work, and provides for the principles of public prosecutors' conduct, which are being examined in charge of professionally, securely, impartially and without any need for delay, while at the same time taking care of the protection of the interests of the damaged and the prevention of discrimination on any basis. Such a definition is important, above all, given the role played by the public prosecutor's office under the new criminal law, given the fact that the public prosecutor's office is an authority that, under the provisions of the new Criminal Procedure Act, conducts an investigation and investigational action instead of a previous investigative judge. This is a very important change. The law leaves the current rule that a public prosecutor's office is being established for a single court, allowing the establishment of a department of public prosecutors and thus a more rational network, which we fully support. As a newspaper, the law provides for the possibility of issuing mandatory instructions by a senior public prosecutor to a lower public prosecutor and the oral route, to which the need has been demonstrated by the practice in case of urgency, with the senior prosecutor being obliged to issue such instructions in writing, within three days of the date of issue, as well as in the case of judges, the provisions governing the exit procedure to the public – the prosecutor's office and the same, in accordance with the provisions of the law on the judicial academy, provides for the obligation of the authority, which performs the electoral, composition and ranking of the list of candidates and the same public publication, provides for the obligation to conduct talks with candidates, regulates the disciplinary responsibility of public prosecutors and extends the deadline for the conduct of proceedings, and introduces additional legal protection of the possibility of obtaining, refusal of a disciplinary decision in the administrative dispute. Finally, as in the case of court trainees, it is envisioned to introduce a procedure for selecting public - prosecutorial trainees by the justice minister. We believe that a set of judicial laws that is necessary in the process of implementation, adopted strategies for judicial reform, to correct the mistakes made in the past and to take the first regulatory step towards a better and better quality judicial system. The bill, which was set before MPs, is a serious and studio analysis that the previous commissions made up of judges, prosecutors, lawyers, representatives of the Justice and Legal Science Ministry, and the proposals for solutions to which both science and profession have been incorporated into this set of laws. Mr. Minister, I commend the justice ministry for its efforts, for the proposed legislative solutions aimed at more effective and faster reform of the judicial system in general. These reforms can be a source of momentum for all of society's reforms. We hope that our amendments that we have submitted to the judicial units, to the abolition of the same ones in Chejetina, Novi Varosha and Luciani, will be taken into account and reconsidered, I especially appeal here to the municipality of Chatin, which is specific to many things, which significantly affects the detention of the judicial unit. We'll make this special when we talk about the detail law. Mr. Minister, the people of the Tchaitina municipality, are expecting you to respond to a citizens' initiative signed by over 200 individuals, related to this issue. It is very important who will and how these laws will be implemented. It's just as important as it's important for these laws to be passed. Finally, the United Pensioners' parliamentary group will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26407	Thank you. National MP Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26408	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, once again, we are reviewing a legal package that should reform our judiciary, our judicial system. This happened in 2008, 2009. By the way, when the first package of laws went in late 2008 and started to be implemented during 2009, the European Commission praised Serbia's judicial reform and the law package in its progress report. Then, when it was seen that this was not working out, she, through her experts, helped bring about amendments and amendments to those laws, along with the Venice Commission. It was done at the end of 2009. Again, the thing didn't go well, the whole legal profession of Serbia was raised, the society of judges, made many proposals that were really good and rational but they weren't advertised. I want to tell you that these commendations are relative. In the European Commission's latest report, we also praised Serbia's judicial reform, as it was in 2009. So don't take too much of this, they don't care so much about the rational reform of the judiciary, they care about doing some of their political jobs in Serbia. If the government does so and ends them as they wish, they will also praise judicial reform and reform of economy and legislation in various sectors of life, etc. So, just my advice, as a man who follows it, is to do as much alone as possible and to consult the Venice Commission first of all, not the European Commission, because it is the expert body of the Council of Europe, when necessary. We've heard a lot of things these two days about these laws that are on the agenda. Mr. Minister, we've heard your very long statements about various aspects of this, so both of the judges and their status and dignity, of the courts, of many things. You've been putting it out for hours in an epic narrative style, and it's just a feeling that you're building a beautiful house of justice in Serbia, with nice words you explain it, etc., but my impression and the impression of my MP club is that you're also undermining the foundations of this judicial system. In fact, the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Prosecutors speaks clearly about this. You've arranged this territorial aspect of the judiciary with scissors. You simply cut off one part of Serbia's territory and said – there are no more courts here. You did it in one legal form, in one provision, which, of course, doesn't say so, and you can't immediately make this conclusion that I said, but I'm going to try to prove it. Namely, you say in Article 12. – the establishment of courts, public prosecutors responsible for the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, their seats and areas of jurisdiction shall be governed by special law. Now, the man wonders, how does the idea of a special law for a part of Serbia's judicial system, its territorial organization? You can't see it from this law or from an explanation. Of course, everyone knows that the basis of this Article 12, this provision that should be implemented by scissors, is in the first agreement on normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina's relations. Point 10 of the agreement states that courts will be integrated into Kosovo's judicial system and that the judicial system will be unique. By the way, our Constitution, Article 142 of Position 1 says – the judicial authority is unique in the Republic of Serbia. If it is a unique judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia, then how can you act and act under one agreement that actually disturbs the unity of the judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia, while at the same time by these acts, by accepting this agreement, you are, in turn, acting on the unity of the Kosovo judicial system, both this law and this Article 2? It's a total absurd, Mr. Minister, and that story of yours is simply a house on the sand, where the foundations are undermined. The foundation of every judicial system is the Constitution of that state and its provisions. You did this at a very delicate court-law point. You are well aware that this agreement, which is the basis of this Article of yours, is the result of the fact that it is the subject of an assessment of constitutionality and legality before the Constitutional Court. You didn't pay any attention to an unwritten rule, that when an object is evaluated by the Constitutional Court, don't pre-arrange it in any law. It's not a good procedure, even though you're formally entitled to it. Therefore, if this agreement is the subject of an assessment, if it has many shortcomings, then respect the situation and do not apriorize the special law of one substance that is subject to the assessment. Mr. Minister, I would remind you that this agreement I am talking about has not been published in Serbia's "Official Messenger". He allegedly doesn't exist, but actions are being carried out under the agreement. It produces obligations and procedures for state authorities and citizens of Serbia, citizens of Serbia in KIM. They went to the polls the day before yesterday, or rather, they boycotted the elections, then the agreement. Therefore, you want to apply something that cannot be applied, which has not been published and which is the case of court proceedings, the case of the highest court that protects the Constitution and the entire system of law in Serbia of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. So you could have done something completely different. You could not have touched these provisions, kept the provisions on that part of Serbia's judicial system in existing laws, and left a political situation with some ultimate solution. First of all, a special law is not known to this constitutional system, unless it is the case of a special law on essential autonomy in Kosovo and Metohija, but as far as I can see this special law is concerned not by this special law, but by someone who you're anticipating will exist. You're making these terrible violations, both ordinary and legal, and you're actually disrupting this whole building that you've described in such wonderful words in your presentations for hours and hours during these two days. If you convinced the MPs of something, you convinced them that the unwritten rule that the minister can answer the questions of the MPs unlimitedly, yes, indeed that is the case, you have indeed answered unlimitedly, and that was the only thing that was convincing to you. Everything else was like that, something was being received, something wasn't being received, at least as far as I'm concerned, but the most important thing is that you didn't touch this most important thing. You have only mentioned in the opening letter this process that should be carried out one day, but you did not actually enter into this constitutional matter of that process, which really binds you, even though you are an executive official, your area is the judiciary, your area is the rule of law, and your area is the rule of law. You, as minister, must contribute, not contribute to the destruction of this constitutional system on which you can make whatever you want a building with many guarantees for courts, judges, etc., but it will not work, that is its problem, simply, you do not have the basis for what you will do, if you are prepared to move so smoothly across Article 142 and through the obligation of the Constitutional Court to regulate that matter by your judgment. You just said that you would like every judge to come out publicly and say, explain his decision to the public. Encourage the President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia to do so. He only made a public announcement once when he moved in with the head of one party, who submitted the proposal, chasing the regulations he was talking about. In the wake of the 2011 Integrated Border Management Regulation and the 2002 Administrative Crossing Regulation. Is that how you want the President of the Constitutional Court to address the public? It's all a set of questions that you should answer, to even know what we're on with our Constitution, with the basis of the legal system, and with everything that means a good basis for one judicial authority and one judicial system, in total. That's it, so if there's a chance, we'll have more to say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26409	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the High School for Economics, Law and Administration, who are currently following part of today's session from the grand hall gallery. Please welcome our guests. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26410	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear guests in the House of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is true that the minister has the right to, as you say, answer indefinitely for a long time, but the minister has less rights than other participants in the work of the National Assembly, and that is quite normal. People's MPs are 250, the minister is usually one, who represents the government as the legislator of some law. I guess it's more important what someone says in their answer, not as much as they say. I'm sure we'll agree on that. But let's go and medias really. The questions you asked. It is quite normal and common and somewhere in parliamentary practice that the opposition is there to criticise the government, to defend something, that there is an opposition to being both untrustworthy and in a previous exhibition it was. During my opening presentation and throughout the course of all my presentations, here is the second day in the National Assembly, not in one single word did I mention the Brussels Agreement. It was mentioned by representatives of not only one, but several opposition parties, and if they hadn't mentioned it, I wouldn't have mentioned it now, because I don't see a connection between the way I represent this law and the Brussels Agreement. In this bill of law, I also see one courage as proposing to start solving some of the issues that was just said that it might be better to leave to a political course that will somehow lead to their solution. By proposing this law to the government, and the Government to the National Assembly, and now that I explain it, I am in charge of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia is very clear, from the beginning to the end, as the only constitution in our constitutional history, talks about the Institute of Essential Autonomy. We can conduct special theoretical discussions on what this concept of essential autonomy really means. Is that what was said eight, nine years ago, more than autonomy, less than independence? This can be debated, but we can also do it, I don't see it as the main theme of this session, but very clearly in Article 182 when it comes to autonomous provinces and the concept of "the founding and territory of an autonomous province", the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says that the essential autonomy of AP KIM is governed by a special law that is adopted under the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. The constitution predicted it. Let you see, when a special bill is found before you, what will the Proposer call? On what constitutional norm and what will the basis for passing a certain law see? Yes, it is my view that this issue should be regulated by a special law, which will be one of the constitutional laws that will formulate the essential autonomy of AP KIM within the Republic of Serbia. It is known to the majority of the public that I participated in some technical negotiations and every part of these negotiations was exclusively and entirely based on what I have just said. And so it will continue to be. Why did the founder put it here, and the citizens and the public need to know, that the Law on Essential Autonomy or the Law that regulates essential autonomy, it can be one, it can be more, it brings them in a way designed for the change of the Constitution and it gets an attribute so-called. Constitutional law? And that's clear. When such a law is passed, it is not subject to the assessment of constitutionality. There is one decision by the 1995 Constitutional Court of Serbia, which disputes exactly that, the Constitutional Court's right to appreciate the constitutionality of the constitutional law, and it becomes a fact-finding but special part of the Constitution that regulates constitutional and legal order in the Republic of Serbia. What is more important, in my opinion, and not just to mention Article 12, which states that this will be regulated by a special law? The most important thing is that the primary, criminal, senior court in Kosovo Mitrovica, the primary and more public prosecutor's office, continue to exist. They continue to exist, and the deadline mentioned in the transitional and final provisions, which wants to be interpreted wisely, will understand that it is a safeguard mechanism. I think that's the solution that this proposal provides for well and that no one is responding to uncertainty, so at least to the people who work in those organs. I will remind you that there are people who do not live and work only in northern Kosovo Mitrovica, Zvecan or Leposavic, that there are employees in judicial units and in Ranilug, and in Gracanica, and in Strpc. I use every opportunity to stay, visit Kosovo and Metohija to meet with these people and talk. They, from the order of them, who were present at technical negotiations on time, are familiar with each draft, with every proposal. We have absolutely nothing to hide from them. At the first moment when the technical negotiations on the judiciary were held, my request was that the president, or acting President of the Supreme Court and the Senior Prosecutor of Mitrovica be present at these talks, at every conversation. And they were there. So, this is not any undermining of the foundation of the Serbian state in a beautiful epic rhetoric, but this is a solution to the issue of essential importance for the Republic of Serbia that was being fled from. In what way? As predicted by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26411	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26412	Not mentioning the Brussels Agreement speaks of the seriousness of your approach. You turn around like a cat around a porridge. Namely, this Brussels Agreement, it unearths all the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija and those that do not work, which make municipalities, then various functional institutions, such as health, education, etc., then the judicial institutions, it disassembles them. Why do you think the courts are excluded from this rule that exists in the Brussels Agreement? Don't you think he's become moderate and regulatory for the government's work? The Brussels Agreement is more regulatory for the government's work than the Serbian Constitution. If you want to ask a little better about it, read Marty Ahtisaari's plan. It is all beautifully written on what these institutions of the Republic of Serbia will look like when Kosovo gets so-called supervised independence. Therefore, not to mention the agreement is not about your legal correctness, but simply one political fear. You're not transparent how modern that would be. Get in touch with the documents that regulate actions. I claim they're unconstitutional, anti-constitutional, against the law. You can talk about how you want to talk about finding a solution to a sector called the judicial system. So, what kind of solution did you find? One of your interpretations of the Constitution. You know, the minister to interpret the Constitution and then act on that interpretation, it's never been seen before. You have interpreted that Article 182 may concern any specific sector of regulation, because there is a special law for judicial autonomy, but there may be special laws as much as you want. (President: Time. ) This is an interpretation that is arbitrary. There is one special law on essential autonomy, this constitutional one that you have so determined, and it can measure other laws that are not special, but are ordinary, regular laws. That's what comes from what is a member of 182. Here you simply invented one structure and built on it this member who was executed by the consequences of courts in Mitrovica and Kosovo. You can talk as much as you want to be with them and guide them, but take them to the slaughter pan.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26413	Minister Selakovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26414	How did you say this last, excuse me, please? You see, I wouldn't take anyone to any slaughter pan unless I was ready to put my head on him first. I think it is extremely incorrect to speak in such a way, because everyone talks on this subject and in this way brings us back to the times when someone else was in power, he was responsible for resolving big and big issues, political issues, and everyone was giving some less good, and a much more bad contribution to resolving these issues. In 2000, I was 17 years old, but I remember very well the pre-election promises of individuals that the problem of Kosovo and Metohija is a political problem for our friends from the Western states, which will be resolved immediately after the presidential elections are over in direct dialogue. Presidential elections took place, and those who represented such attitudes came in an opportunity to rule. I don't see that in the last 14 years, we've gone either to the pedal in a positive direction when it comes to solving these most difficult and huge issues for our nation, our country and our society. There are no arbitrary interpretations, or someone argues that we have a single sole interpreter of the Constitution and that it is one man and how he reads and says that the Constitution is and means that it is. The Republic of Serbia is a state. That state has its own institutions. These institutions provide protection of constitutional and legal order. If it's an arbitrary formulation, then it's a formulation of essential autonomy. We all know what it is, and no one knows what it is, and we're all ready to interpret it one way or another. Why is it not possible to define essential autonomy through two or three laws as provided by the Constitution? Not rare states that have a constitution consisting of two, three or four acts. I'm just drawing attention to what I think is the core of the problem. I think this approach is the only legal correct and possible way to solve this problem. We can agree or disagree, support or do not support, but I am convinced that this is a way of resolving and respecting our national interest, which is greater than the Constitution and the Constitution, as a basic legal act, and what is most important, the needs of the Serbian people and other peoples who live in the community and well with Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26415	Here you go, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26416	Mr. Minister, you've made a replacement for thesis. Essential autonomy can be thought of in its own way, interpreted. It is a general concept that allows for it to be defined in different ways. But if that provision of the Constitution applies the law in one, then it's one law, one special law on essential autonomy. That's what this is about. In fact, you can't make more laws or more special laws out of that one law. According to our constitutional system, one autonomous province has a statute, and the other has a special law on essential autonomy. They both have different ways of bringing each other in. That, of course, is due to the situation in which we found ourselves. In 2006, we were able to determine Kosovo's constitutional position in the details of how the AP Vojvodina Statute could do it, but we left a special procedure for its adoption. But the outcome of this procedure is quite clear constitutionally. It's a special law on essential autonomy. When it comes to judges and courts in Kosovo, I used an expression that may have been inappropriate and did not concern you personally, but I must remind you that judges in Mitrovica five and a half years ago, in March 2008, defended that Serbian court with their bodies, all judges, there were about 50, including court staff. On March 17, that year, they were violently taken to Pristina prison. That's when the state stood behind them. The same afternoon they came back, because the government, not the state, was doing it. I want to remind you of the fact that people were willing to sacrifice their freedom for that court in Mitrovica. (President: Time. He's more than a court of law. He is the institution of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. President. That's why you don't have to touch those things that are regulated the way they are regulated in today's law. That's why we've asked the amendments to bring it back more or less. The Court of Justice and the Supreme Court of Mitrovica and the Criminal Court may act. The Department of the Administrative Court and the Court of Appeal can also act, all of it can, elsewhere can't. Where he can – where he can't – he can't, but it's important that Serbia has its institutions. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26417	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26418	If we interpret the Constitution, let us interpret it in each of its terms and in every word of it in the same way. One in a normative sense means plural, so when you say in the Constitution of the law, it doesn't have to be one, but it can be more laws and you know it. That's exactly the point. That's why I said that essential autonomy can be regulated not only formally by one law on essential autonomy, but through more. As for what has been said about judges and prosecutors from Kosovo and Metohija, I know what happened in 2008. I am aware that before 2008, there was also no formal court of the Republic of Serbia, when we say they worked there so-called. The umbilical courts, in which the judges of the Republic of Serbia worked, that their engagement was and that the work of these courts was defined by an agreement adopted by the then government, but did not call for the Serbian Constitution when it adopted the agreement. We have a similar situation now. You can say - yes, but it was the UNMIK administration and it was right. I don't slow anything down here, but let's go back to what I just said. First of all, the interest of the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija and the interest represented by this government whose member and interest I represented when I was able to negotiate and discuss it was to create and ensure conditions for Serbs to stay in Kosovo and Metohija, because unfortunately we are witnesses that whoever was in power, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija have been leaving for the past 14 years. They used to leave more, as it was under the pressure of violence in 2004, when the state of Serbia was in no way reacting to stopping it or resisting it. They didn't react at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26419	Thank you. The word is Mr. Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26420	Mr. Minister, you ran away from the topic again when you gave that analogy to the law. I'm not talking about the law, I'm talking about a special law. He's in one. The law is unique and applied as plural. That's clear. So the special law is in one and it remains as one law, unique. You deliberately took an example not of a special law, but of a law as such. When it comes to the Mitrovica court, you must take care of chronology. A month before those events, Albanians declared Kosovo independent. UNMIK didn't react. He said – I'll set myself up or we'll set ourselves up status neutral. What could the Republic of Serbia have done here? She could take UNMIK institutions into her own hands, the ones she could. We then organised elections throughout Kosovo in 24 municipalities and that was the only answer. UNMIK has accepted it silently. The judges themselves have decided to take over the Mitrovica court from the UNMIK status into the status of the Serbian Constitution. It was their will and response to the danger that UNMIK would hand the court over to Albanians. Now Albanians are no longer in the status of temporary authorities of self-government, but independent states. It's this interpretation context that you have to keep in mind when you talk about it. These were the actions of the state, very live actions that responded to the current situation, as well as in 2004 and 2008, when you reiterate as a refrench that the state had not accepted anything. You know, that attack on Chaglavica at two o'clock between 17th and 18th March, he was stopped by the state's reaction. The next day, the Security Council held an extraordinary session and reached certain conclusions. UNMIK and KFOR themselves have started to behave differently in a safe way, and you are repeating as others that we have organised only a request. There were a lot of things going on behind that action that we don't talk about, thinking people know that, but when they don't already know, what don't they ask?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26421	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26422	I remember very well, and I suppose it also remembers the overwhelming majority of MPs that in 2008, the whole public was convinced that the Serbian government had so-called. an action plan for the state's reaction in case Kosovo's independence is declared. Like most lawyers, I expected the first state to recognise unilaterally declared independence to be sued. If the defendant were first, we'd see who would do it further. I didn't see that. No one saw in Serbia either. You can say - that's why the government fell. After that, there were some choices. Someone represented one thesis, someone else, the election ended, a new government was formed and went on. Everyone made a contribution, I said at the beginning of the debate, so there was this contribution of CEFTA or Brussels, was this contribution of the 2001 amnesty or something else. Do not look just out of the corner of sinlessness, each has made a contribution in some way. I'm still saying, this is a way that, working in accordance with the Constitution, we do something good. If the author here wanted to make a difference and to say that, as in other cases, it is not a word when you say in a single law that you normally think of plural, that these are laws, then he would say that the essential autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija is governed by a unique special law that is adopted by the procedure provided for in the change of the Constitution. So, he would say -- specifically by a unique special law, and that's not what the founder said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26423	Thank you. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm giving a break. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26424	We're going back to work. The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26425	The respected chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, as said by the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Milisav Petronijevic, the SPS parliamentary group, will support a set of judicial laws we are discussing today. The proposed set of judicial laws systematically improves the quality of judicial work, and introduces order into the judicial system, improves the accountability and efficiency of the judicial system. The fact is that, following the 2009 judicial reform, a difficult situation occurred in courts and prosecutors, that the network of courts is irrational, that the number of judges is insufficient, that shortcomings in the legal framework guaranteeing the independence of judges and public prosecutors, that there is insufficient transparency of the work of the State's council, as well as the availability of case law and regulations, which of course affected the unequal approach of citizens of justice, and the threat of the right to fair trials. The most important thing is that we know what these are problems citizens face in contact with judicial institutions. Certainly, what burdens citizens the most, as well as the entire system of justice, is a large number of pending cases. According to an analytical report, Serbia faces a large number of pending cases. About 1.7 million pending cases, which is 60% of the total number of cases is older than nine months and are mainly related to the execution of civil and criminal acts. Procedures before courts, along with the execution of sentences in Serbia, take an average of about nine years. Mr. Minister, I'm not going to ask you why an item is obsolete. I know you're not in charge of this directly, but I want to say what we need to take special care of, is to prevent the limitations of criminal prosecution in the procedures that threatens almost obsolescence. There are many examples today of selectivity in the pursuit of corrupt crimes, which can only be easily proven if we recall large corrupt affairs. It is necessary that the Ministry of Justice formulate a standard based on which judges will be resolved, and those prosecutors who are guilty of obsolescence, and of delaying proceedings. The proposals for these laws were to cover at least one part, i.e. at least one part of these laws regarding the regulation of stricter measures that would be taken against the unconscious and irresponsible judges and prosecutors, when it comes to obsolescence. The proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors is in line with the Brussels Agreement, and based on an analysis of the work of abusive, basic, economic, senior, appeals courts and judicial units, it foresees new networks of courts to improve the efficiency of work and easier access of citizens to justice, which is certainly the goal of all of us here. The important thing is that where there is no possibility, or legally prescribed conditions for the existence of a court, at least there are judicial units. By the proposal of this law, 47 municipalities, if I understand correctly, were left without judicial units. You, Mr. Minister, in yesterday's discussion, said if you take a court from one place, it's like you took his soul. That's right. You know it best. It is not important that local communities have a court or judicial unit, their real needs matter. Not every city must have a court, but simply citizens must have access to the court, that is the fundamental right of man and citizen provided for by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The SPS parliamentary group has submitted amendments to which we point to the need for the network of courts to be corrected where necessary, and for the whole law to gain quality. What is most important is that this legal solution through a set network of courts is made available to citizens of justice, and the availability of courts to citizens, while at the same time achieving the rationality of the judiciary and, on the other hand, the efficiency of the work of the courts. Closely linked to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, where one of the most important newspapers is intended to provide for a completely different way of evaluating the work of judges and the President of the Courts, which allows the assessment of their work to be made clear and transparent. The paper is scheduled for the VSS to form commissions, so the judges of senior courts will assess the work of lower court judges. These changes are very important because a whole new way of evaluating the work will be made, both the judges and the president of the courts. This will be the basis for their later career advancement, and we will also have clear and transparent criteria on how any of the judges works and performs their work tasks. Just now, the intransparency in the work of the judge is one of the manifest shortcomings. It is high time to establish a judicial system with a clearly defined mechanism of control of the work of judges and the responsibilities of judicial institutions and holders of judicial functions for quality and performance of work, which will affect strengthening the confidence and respect of citizens in the legal institution of the state. Citizens must be convinced that everyone has equal opportunities to seek justice before the court and that they believe that both judges and prosecutors will solve cases fairly and rationally, without political and personal convictions. The practice has also shown that certain provisions of the Public Prosecutor's Law need to be amended in order to be effectively applied and implemented. The aim of these changes is to ensure consistent application of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that regulate the position of public prosecutors, as well as compliance with international standards relating to the public prosecutor's office. A strategy for judicial reform, as a key principle of justice over the next five years, provides for a judicial system in which institutions and legal holders in their work are independent and free of any inappropriate influence and pressure that would interfere with the exercise of justice regardless of their source. The Venice Commission noted in its report on European standards regarding the independence of the judicial system that the independence of prosecutors is not the same as the independence of judges. Although there is a general tendency to ensure more independence of the prosecution system, there is no common standard that would call for that. Otherwise, the Venice Commission gave a positive opinion on the draft laws we are discussing today. The set of judicial laws that are before us today contains the basic principles and principles on which the SPS insists, which are: effective, responsible, rational, transparent and independent exercise of judicial and prosecutorial functions, with respect to the principle of availability of justice for all citizens under equal conditions. By accepting amendments to the SPS parliamentary group, justice will certainly be much more accessible and present in all parts of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26426	The word is by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26427	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, ministers, today we have four very important laws, four laws that were passed in 2008 and which represented a set of judicial laws that started and envisioned judicial reform in Serbia. I think that all of you here in the O.R. and our citizens were witnessing that the SNS was the most attacked by judicial reform, that it even occurred that the judges who were not elected to the SNS were joining, explaining that the greatest sin of the past government and the last rule of justice reform. What I can say today is that I am pleased that the concept of reform does not change at all. So both the current government and the current ministry gave up the announced reform of the "reform" judiciary. Today we have before us the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors, the Law on Court Orders, and all three laws are changed into several members. Changes in technical character and the essential concept of the functioning of the judiciary are not changed by any member offered in these laws. I heard the minister speak of the fact that it is not true that they are technical changes, but I have to deny it, because not only does the DS parliamentary group consider it to be technical changes, the Venice Commission, which wrote in its report, in the conclusions, as follows: "The draft amendments to the Law on Judges and the Law on the Regulation of Courts are in general positive, but they are quite technical and act as if they are not too significant in relation to the difficult situation in which the judiciary is currently in Serbia". Therefore, these laws absolutely do not correspond to the current situation, i.e. they do not improve the judiciary in the reform process. Reform cannot end with a single set of laws. The reform continues. Everything that isn't still good needs to be fixed in the judiciary, and in order to fix that, we need to change some laws. We have a new situation and this emerging situation is caused by the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision to return to our judiciary slightly less than 600 judges. For the High Council of the Judiciary, these judges were unequal or unworthy a year and a half or two ago. They were returned to our judicial system by the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court made it possible and even pointed out that the reasons should be examined by that decision and by reason of the decision. I think now the opportunity is missing to examine the reasons why the High Council of the Judiciary felt someone shouldn't be in our judiciary. So in a year and a half as many of you as you are in power, you didn't want to treat the main problem in the judiciary at all in any way. You just didn't make a statement about it, and you don't solve it. What does that lead to? This leads to citizens simply having no confidence in the judiciary. Because if there are a third or a quarter of the judges that the High Council of the Judiciary felt were not good, they are now in the system and they are judges and citizens simply cannot trust them. In order to have confidence in all judges, it is necessary that the process that is then started be completed and that those who need to be in the judicial system be strengthened and given full legitimacy, not that it remains doubtful for all of us that maybe there is someone who shouldn't be. You don't have the courage to face this problem and this problem in any way you don't solve it. Everything else in these laws is really technical, not promoting reform, and I think that's why we had the chance to hear yesterday, which is the minister's opinion that we need political power, whether it's executive or legislative, that it should have a greater influence on the judiciary. It is a different concept than the concept that we have set, which is that there is no influence between the legislative or executive authorities on the judiciary, especially during the elections. We did so to the extent that the Constitution allowed us to do so, and we all know that the recommendations are that we go in the direction that our Constitution is changing and that this constitution even introduces ourselves into a situation that no influence has been given to the Assembly to elect judges, even to the extent that it might not be necessary for the Minister to be a member of the High Council of Justice. These are changes that I hope will be made in the future. You, Minister, have a completely different attitude, as far as we could hear yesterday. Even in one replica, you said that by making judgments in the name of the people, that would mean creating a judiciary that chooses itself and corresponds to itself and wondering where it works. Yeah, I think judges should choose themselves. So, the High Council of the Court should be elected by the judges, judges should make a choice further and we do not need the influence of the policy on the judiciary. It's a concept that needs to be continued, and I don't think you're brave enough to continue that concept. What you have offered us in these laws as a major matter of reform is a network of courts, or changes. Once there were 138 courts, we in this last reform reduced that number to 34 courts and about 100 judicial units, and you are now introducing 66 courts and 22 judicial units. I think it's just like it sounds at the level of numbers and at the level of statistics. What are the parameters? None of us in this room know that. You mentioned there was some kind of analysis. As MPs, we didn't get that analysis. We haven't seen the analysis, and we haven't seen which court unit has as many cases, how many judges and how many trials have been tried. That's what they were doing, you say, working groups. I can answer that last reform was done by the same working groups. In the same working groups were judges and experts, and they are always expert working groups, but I don't know how it can be explained that there should be a court in Surdulica and there shouldn't be in Vladica's Han? We'll talk about it in more detail when we talk about the amendments. When you instructed today that some courts do not have enough cases, the citizens watched through television and texted us. We got a text message from Blatz. In 2012, there were over 1,100 items in Blaac, 380 litigating, 80 leftovers, over 100 outsiders. So you have more than 1,000 cases in a court unit in Blatz. You are now terminating a judicial unit in Blatz. No one knows why. There used to be a court in Blatz. There's all the infrastructure, the ministry invested in the building, in the equipment, people are employed, so in all the judicial units that exist today, there's a complete infrastructure. You're terminating 44, if I counted correctly, judicial units. So in 44 municipalities, citizens will not be able to achieve their legal protection in the place where they live. The 44 municipalities will have to travel to other municipalities and other cities. This is where my colleagues mentioned some of these municipalities. Now I'd read it for the citizens, if they just knew, because nobody expected this. In that announcement of reform, you said you'd go back to the way it was, so maybe the citizens thought there'd be 138 courts again, as it was before 2008. No, you remove the judicial unit in Raznja, Bac, Bač, Bačka Palanca, Presevo, Osecina, Srbobrana, Plandište, Bolvac, Čečnja, Rekovac, Novi Crnja, Batocina, Rači, Barvarina, Blac, Krupnje, Ljiga, Svrljiga, Bakko Petrovac, Beojna, Zablja, Temerina, Titela, Alibunar, Kovačica, Čuprija, Babušnica, Beli Palanca, Žabarima, Žabarilj, Koserić, Novi Varoši, Irigo, Pećinci, Adi, Kanjiži, Apatin, Odžci, Lajkovci, Guci, Bogatić, Vladimirci, Vladimirci and Koceljev. Which is why none of us know. We can all suspect it's some political ideas. It is not disputed that it is exclusively political ideas when it comes to a network of courts. So when you don't have an analysis, when you haven't given us a financial analysis, when you haven't explained how much it costs for judges to travel, and you don't care how much it'll cost for citizens to travel. The right to tell you, I prefer judges to travel than citizens, and lawyers to travel to other places to exercise their rights. Financially, you said it would be savings. I looked at, as far as I could, the 2014 budget. The difference in the 2014 budget compared to 2013 is next, for a billion dinars the larger budget for the Ministry of Justice. The courts also have a higher budget for a billion dinars. It was 19 billion 297 million, now it's 20 billion 808 million. For basic courts, the increase of billions was eight billion and 890, now nine billion and 700. And for travel costs, the budget is higher by a million dinars. It was five million and 200, now it's six million. Is it possible that all these costs are increasing in the budget and that you are telling us here that by abolishing the judicial units, the costs will be reduced? Nothing is going to change on better suspension of judicial units, except that you will prevent people from achieving that right in 44 municipalities in their places, and infrastructure exists, and that will lead to much more different practices, I will tell you on the Belgrade case. One of our arguments was that court practice would be evened. In Belgrade, we now have one court. If we have three courts, I don't see how court practice will be evened out, and neither will the inflow, or the number of cases, per judge. If you have one court, then you can share with all the judges the same number. If you have three different courts, you will have a certain number of cases per judge, especially if you have in mind, I don't know if you noticed that, given that it was working groups, the first court in Belgrade is for the territory of Old Town, the Sava Venec, Vracar, Zveztar, Palilula. All the institutions that exist in this country are located in the territory of these municipalities. So the number of cases in the First Court will certainly be much higher than it will be in any other court in Serbia. These are exactly arguments against what you said in your presentation of the number of cases and set an example of another court that had a large number etc. If there are a large number of cases per judge, isn't it easier to increase the number of judges in that court? The number of cases by judges will not be reduced by changing the tables in court. For us, as citizens, for lawyers, it doesn't matter whether the building writes the first court, the second court or the third court. The change of tables does not lead to judicial reform. Nothing's gonna change. You need to run an analysis, to know which court needs more judges, just to hire more judges. The question is -- how is it possible that we don't have enough judges, when we have them for 600 more than we had before? 600 is returned, a number has been selected, so the judge has more than ever, and the judiciary doesn't work. It is not a problem in the number of courts, it may not be a problem in the number of judges, but it is not allocated in an adequate way. I can understand that Belgrade's appeal is not working well. I know it doesn't work well enough because there are items we've been waiting two years for to return to the appeal of Belgrade's appeal. I guess it takes a lot of judges to respond to a task like that. But I can't understand why people from Capac will go to Novi Sad, not to Belgrade's appeal. How did you figure that out? You calculated that it would make Belgrade's appeal more efficient if the Whispers went to the second degree in Novi Sad. That doesn't make any sense. They never went to exercise their rights in Novi Sad and Vojvodina and Sabac has always gone to Belgrade. Please also look at the amendments that correct the obvious mistakes you are making, not only about the Sabac, but also about other cities and municipalities in Serbia. If you want to do something for the judiciary, then you need to continue the reform and allow the judges to work. Judges, in order to work effectively, they must have working conditions. Basic courts have no working conditions. The whole reform was based on each judge getting one judge. If every judge had his own judge's assistant, not if we had one judge on three judges, then the judges could work much more effectively. The other thing is to relieve judges of writing administrative solutions that could be dealt with and to be competent judicial assistants or associates for them, not judges to do these things. Third, I think the most important thing I'm going to tell you, if you went to courts in Belgrade, they need technical conditions, they need a building. The assembly voted in favour of confirming loans for the purchase of the Aeroengineering Building and for the complete editing of the Aeroengineering Building, in which 110 courts were to be held. There should have been 110 bigger, each judge having his own courtroom, that in that courtroom he could judge every day, or if he didn't judge that day, to prepare himself in that office, to have basic means to work. What happened to that project? Why is this project stopped and why has he never realized himself? I think you're introducing us now to have, instead of one three courts and three tables, which will lead to at least four, five months of delays in cases in Belgrade and the inter-city courts. So that case that changes the court will get a new judge, everything will have to go from the beginning and our citizens won't be able to exercise their rights for many years. You're making a dead end, and you're not improving anything. My impression is that this Law on the Network of Courts makes one political game and that this whole political game aims to conceal only what is new in these laws, and the new thing is that there is no basic or higher court in Kosovo Mitrovica. Everything else is more or less the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26428	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26429	Dear colleagues and respected colleagues, today on the agenda we have a set of laws from the judiciary and it is normal to expect that the spear here will mostly be crossed by high-level lawyers, lawyers, university professors and people whose profession it is. We ordinary mortals who don't do these jobs have a chance to hear a lot of things, to learn something, but, like every average Serb, I also think I know a lot of things and that I can contribute to the better work of the Assembly. I decided to focus my exposure on two tracks. The first track will be one commendation to the minister, and the other will be a grudge. I liked the minister's statement that he accepted all objections, no matter what sides they came from, and that's something that's perfectly normal. It is not expected of the opposition to be just a critic and to speak ill of the proposed laws, and the position to praise these laws, but, if we are all working in the interests of citizens and we are calling on those citizens who ultimately chose to work in their interest, then the task is to find the best possible solutions, solutions that will make this area efficient and economical, i.e. available in the easiest possible way to Serbia's citizens. Will these changes in the area of the network of courts face resistance? It's perfectly normal that they will. It's in every man's nature to have a resistance to change. Why? Because we're all trying to keep the situation we're in, because that's where we're safe. The changes made in a network of courts will answer to someone, not to someone, someone less, someone more, and that's perfectly normal, so that we can give criticism and make proposals to the Ministry, the Minister and the committee in charge through the amendments, where certain corrections and revisions would take place. I have already said that I very much liked that the minister said he would accept all the proposals that are in this interest, so I hope that through the amendments the proposals and the opposition and the positions that are in the spirit of improving this law will be accepted. As for my regrets to the minister, I agree with a colleague who said, it seems to me that it has been 18 months and that the minister has not done so, so he mentioned some of the items that have become obsolete. As far as I know, counterpart Selakovic is a minister for about 15 months, and I will strongly resent him for failing in these 15 months to fix all that they had destroyed before him for 12 years, all that they had brought to the bottom, to the brink of destruction. Isn't this Selakovic a miracle worker, isn't he a superman, someone with a magic wand who's only going to fix it with one shake of hands? It is very difficult to fix for the whole term what Minister Selakovic and his team inherited, let alone in about 15 months. So, Mr. Minister, the books in your hands, and I see that you're doing the science by hand, and don't stop at just these scientific achievements, but follow alternative methods and parapsychological methods, because you need more than that knowledge to correct what's been broken down in this system for 12 years. I hope that this law will get the consent of all, or most MPs in the Serbian Parliament, and that in order to improve, which Serbian citizens expect, there will also be an improvement in this new law in some future period, because every law is a living organism and needs to be changed from time to time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26430	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. The remaining time is four minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26431	I think it's six minutes, but you'll have to take care of it with the service. Let's do something that we haven't arrived enough in the first part of the debate to discuss, and about the issue of courts in the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija. I'll remind you of Article 182. The constitution and this time we're going to read a little bit. Item 2 of Article 182. The constitution reads: "The Republic of Serbia has AP Vojvodina and AP Kosovo and Metohija. The essential autonomy of AP Kosovo and Metohija, which is in the preamble, will be governed by a special law adopted under the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. “ So I’m interpreting that this is a special law, not special laws. However, all and if you could imagine that under the term "special law" in the sense of Article 182(2) of the provisions of Article 182. The constitution also includes several laws that would regulate essential autonomy, their procedures and contents are strictly laid down in the Constitution of Serbia. Therefore, the provision of Article 12. The law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, which you have proposed to the National Assembly, which says - the establishment of courts and public prosecutors responsible for the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, their seats and areas of jurisdiction are governed by a special law, does not correspond to the letter of the Constitution. You know that very well. Because it is not clear whether the special law you are referring to here is a special law within the meaning of Article 182(2). The Constitution. Now, let's do this. Even if that were the case, Mr. Secretary did not answer any specific questions that have been raised today, and he went into full political discussion, instead of answering the essential thing. So, even if it were a special law, this area is not governed by special law. You can put it on – it'll be all right. It is not arranged, because I ask you a very simple and simple question – where is your special law? Why hasn't this National Assembly passed any special laws so far, if you want plural, on the essential autonomy of Kosovo and Metohija? If the law is special or if the laws are in accordance with Article 182(2). The constitution, necessary to determine, to regulate relations in Kosovo and Metohija, then you cannot, by ordinary law, refer to a special law, which is already referred to by the Constitution, and say that this calls for the Constitution, if you understand what I'm saying to you. I sincerely hope you understand, since you are a lecturer at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade. So it's an illogical structure. What were you supposed to do? If you wanted to edit matter, which according to our deep conviction is unique, in accordance with the Constitution and cannot be separated, if you already wanted to edit it with a special law, then it was worth making a constitutional basis for it, and the constitutional basis for it is just a special law. Well, the key question for you is, where's the special law? Why has no special law under which you, by passing a law on the seat of courts, could say that this area is governed by a special law? It's one of the illogicalities in which you're caught and out of which there's no way out. Your advantage over me in our debate is that you have unlimited time. It is limited only by your political will and the patience of your colleagues from the ruling majority. Whatever I say here, you will disqualify it in your answer and, if necessary, you will refer a series of words to this side to prove the opposite, and that is simply impossible. So this is about violating the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, that courts for the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija stop working. You did say in the transitional provisions, it is very clear there and it stands, that the courts for the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija will function until the adoption of a special law, which you also had no right to, because this law does not have the right to refer to a constitutional provision that already points to the adoption of a special law. You had no right to do so, and even less you had the right to determine the jurisdiction of other judicial units, or other courts in the territory of the Republic of Serbia for certain areas in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. You have no right to do that. What are you doing with that? You do not even implement the famous Brussels agreement because the Brussels Agreement contains something completely different. The Brussels Agreement, we repeat once again, cannot be any basis for any law being passed in this House. The basis for law-making is the Constitution of Serbia or that famous special law passed by procedure for the adoption of a Constitution that has the power of the Constitutional Law and you as a professor know it very well. Only he can be the source of our conduct in parliament. That's what we're talking about here. If we didn't get along well in the morning, I don't think so. Now, if you want to answer, you can give your political lecture as much as you want. (President: Time.) I only have two minutes for the replica and you 202 for your speech.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26432	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26433	Don't make me cry, I didn't bring a Rules of Procedure that I could talk to so much. The Rules of Procedure were brought by MPs, and I will be very happy to use all those opportunities and rights that the Rules of Procedure gives me. So it's perfectly legitimate and fine. Thank you for this stream of words, and if that's what you expect me to do. Personally, I can ask the same question. Where's the special law and why wasn't it brought after the constitution was passed? Why was it not brought before the authorities of Pristina's provisional self-government institutions unilaterally declared independence? Why? Why didn't we define essential autonomy before someone got the support to declare that independence? Don't, please, let's deceive the citizens. Whether clearly – courts, public prosecutors in Kosovo and Metohija and those in charge of Kosovo and Metohija, and not located below, continue to work. That seems to bother you. That looks like it hurts. He's lying about the opposite of what's written here, and it says here they keep working. So it takes a nice sit-down and read. It is true that the Constitution has laid down the procedure, but it is not true that it contains a future law on essential autonomy. Nowhere does it say what it contains of essential autonomy. Nowhere. If it says so, please read where it says what essential autonomy is. But it doesn't say anything. Why hasn't a special law been passed? It can and can be spoken of by one who was in power at the time of the Constitution and after the adoption of the Constitution in that period. Why didn't he pass a special law? Why did he run away from being the devil of the cross? Does that mean we shouldn't be preparing to pass that law? Does this mean, as it was just said, that things should be left to the political course of events so that they will end up alone somewhere? I don't think so. Do not call on the story of this law to the Brussels Agreement, for as a representative I have not referred anywhere to it or I have leveled the law against it. If that were so, then likely, if it were according to those who wrote the Belgrade Agreement in 2003, and then participated in the writing of the Brussels Agreement, there would be no word in this law on Kosovo and Metohija, and he is given special attention here. For the first time, a constitutional-legal system was violated that year when the Belgrade Agreement was concluded, when the moral, political and legal size of a feather move annulled the Constitution of a state and euthanasia of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, contrary to the SRJ Constitution, with the Constitution of Serbia, with the Constitution of Montenegro. It was a shameless and nostalgic violation and the beating of the constitutional order of a state. Here I speak and explain the law which, in certain provisions, several predecessors talk about goes into an impossible situation in a maneuveric space like the tip of a needle. It goes in accordance with the Constitution. Here the practical meaning of the provisions is until a special law, courts and public prosecutors in Kosovo and Metohija are passed, they continue to work. And that's true. And that's what it says here. Yeah, that's what it says here. As soon as they're said to be done with a special law. We can disagree now. You take a nice one, then you write the amendment and suggest that it says otherwise. But let's not have legal debates right now. The point is very clear. If this law is adopted in the National Assembly in ten days, does this mean that there will still be courts and public prosecutors in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? Yeah, so it'll still exist. Does it mean they'll still do what they do today? Yeah, it means they'll do what they do today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26434	Thank you. Replica, Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26435	I'd just like to answer two questions that have remained problematic here. First, why no law has been passed so far on essential autonomy. First, because, Mr. Minister, you well know, there was no political will by all political parties. As far as the DSS is concerned, since I belong to that political party, on behalf of the citizens who elected us, I am speaking to you, there was the will to pass such a law, but our participation in the republican government as early as 2008 after the unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo and Metohija was questioned and simply ceased to exist precisely because of the disagreement on this subject. So I don't want to amnesty us, but I'm just saying we didn't get a chance to do it. Why wasn't the Constitution brought immediately after the adoption? It is simply because before the declaration, the unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo and Metohija was one period where it was meant to be given a chance to the negotiations that you know who they are and how brutally interrupted them. Then a new reality is created. In the new reality of the adoption of this law, a special law should form the basis for further negotiations. It wasn't done and the thing went where she went. Another thing about this transitional provision, where you say that until the special law is passed, there will be courts in Kosovo and Metohija. I just want to say that in this provision stands which courts from Serbia, i.e. The predominantly southern part of Serbia will do these jobs. Well, here's to the adoption of a special law under Article 12 of the Court of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office referred to in Article 5, point 8, Article 6(3), Article 7 of point 2, Article 8 of point 2 of Article 11 of this Act continue to exercise legal competence for the territory of AP Kosovo and Metohija. Where is the court in Kosovo Mitrovica? Where's the court? He's gone. There's no minister, only if you want to make things up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26436	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26437	Come on, be so correct, so when you quote a member, quote it from the beginning to the end, because this is now the mildest, least called very incorrect. Take and quote the separate attitude of one member, and not quote the other, it doesn't really make sense. The law says very clearly, you'll give me just a second, says this - Article 17, Section 1. - until the adoption of a special law under Article 12 of this Act, the courts and public prosecutors referred to in Article 2 paragraph 13, so the Kosovo Mitrovica Criminal Court, Article 3rd point 11, the Kosovo Mitrovica General Court, Article 4 point 7, the High Court of Kosovo Mitrovica, Article 9 point 11, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica and Article 10, paragraph 7, More Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica, the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors (‘the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia’, No 116/08), continue to work. Item 2 speaks of second-degree courts that are located in Nis. Be correct to that extent, and read the standard from the beginning to the end. Therefore, the Court of Appeal in Nis is a second-degree court for the Basic and Higher Court in Mitrovica. The business court in Nis is in charge of the KIM area and writes very clearly. So, let me repeat once again, until the adoption of a special law under Article 12, the number of courts and public prosecutors continue to work. Dot.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26438	Come on, short.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26439	All right, that's to stand. However, what about Article 3 where it says, the special law of Article 12 of this law will be passed by 31 December 2013. This basically means that you say that once you virtually abolish these courts, you extend their operation until 31.12.2013, and then you announce the adoption of a special law on which we know nothing. I want to tell you that this story in that part is thin and that you can't go out on the green branch with your explanation. I ask you a very simple and simple question, if this is how you explain it and how you explain it, so I ask you, why in this area then, in your interpretation of very extensive norm 182 paragraph 2. The Constitution, why, according to that extensive interpretation of the set of laws, etc., if so, as you say, why don't we already have these special rules at this session today, or special law? You know that a special law, or special rules can be regulated in one text, that voting must be special in the Serbian Parliament if a two-thirds majority is asked for such a thing. Is there a referendum to be asked for such a thing? I think that, if it is a procedure for the adoption of the Constitution, it is a matter of state regulation and capacity of competence of the part of the territory of the Republic. How do you think you do that without the procedure the Constitution provides for, referred to in Article 182. The Constitution? Because then I ask you otherwise, which special law do you pass, and why does this law separate these courts from the unique system of the network of courts in Serbia and put them in special law? If you understand what I'm asking you?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26440	The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz. Please, just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26441	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, we are discussing this set of judicial laws. They are as always very important and are practically, in addition to the Constitution, of course, the backbone of the state order and how the state of Serbia, how it works and how it will function in the future. We've heard it here many times, as my colleague Professor said. Stojmirović, we see, watching the Assembly discuss these laws with lawmakers who are lawyers and respected professors, etc. Some work in courts, as we've heard. But it comes down to the fact that when we talk about the law, about the seats and areas of the courts and the public prosecutors on the network, in the way these courts will be organised and territorially and in any other way, let's see that this law essentially increases the number of basic courts and reduces the number of judicial units. But a large number of amendments have been submitted, so we will eventually see what this law will essentially look like. However, I will try to speak from another angle. It is essential for citizens that courts be fair and efficient, although you ministers have recently stated, I have seen that statement of yours that, in essence, justice cannot be, if it is not effective and swift. We have a different experience with our courts and that's something that needs to change in the next period. Of course, if it is important for citizens to have fair and effective courts and for the state to be quick and efficient, fair, but the state must also think about the economy and that is something that is a much better solution than it was in the previous four years, after a failed reform of the judiciary that has been done and declared unsuccessful, even from our EU friends who have misjudged it. In the end, however, it all comes down to man, to man. These judges are people, I know it well, because my father was the District Court judge, retired as the District Court judge, and the way they work, and the way they're going to apply all of this is much more important than what I think most of us here have been in the middle of the day. These courts have to be effective, and hence they have to be just. I repeat it to you for the third time. What do I think must be the priority? Already, and so far it has to be, but unfortunately it's not, working in those courts, the old cases have to be dealt with urgently. Here are our brothers, neighbours in Republika Srpska have almost completed their work. They no longer have objects in the procedure that are over a year old. It must not be privileged, because we see what happens when there are privileged in various parts, sectors of our society, and even among politicians, when we calculate and we give in to something that then causes much greater damage. They must not be privileged among former ministers who are being prosecuted, but my God, they must not be privileged even to those who are current if they come under the influence of the court. Namely, these items must have priority and they must be dealt with first. There must be MPs in the same position, both former and present, and believe that there are cases, from the current assembly with MPs, I'm not talking about civil litigation, I'm not talking about lawsuits in private, I'm talking about what the prosecution is launching, the public prosecutor's office as a matter of fact. Also, mayors, deputy mayors, because we have cases that last six, seven or eight years, in various cases. Corruption must be eradicated in Serbia if we want a fair society and if we want to be part of the EU someday. New items, too. All those we looked at in this blow, the privileged and those who are used to watching and corrupting our society, these items must have priority and must be swift and effective in the interests of our citizens and the whole of Serbia resolved. Mr. Minister, you must be the first, in my opinion, someone to inspire these people, not to call them judges, but to those people, and to use them on purpose for the second time today, of course after you and the entire government and the National Assembly to work faster, to work more efficiently, not to be afraid of anyone, not to be threatened, whoever threatens them has to publicize it, as here was the case a few days ago in Smederev, when in one case the judge was threatened, the judge has published it all, the police have arrested you and reacted, so all the other judges have to, but from you first, so after all the others we have to inspire in this way the judges. I use that word on purpose, because it is obvious that some people do not understand the difference between the word "inspirator" and "organizer", which we saw and heard this morning, but I say, we need to inspire these people to do better and more effectively in the next period. They must feel free and have to do what is in the interest of the citizens, not anyone in power or anyone, who has money and thus is powerful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26442	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26443	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister with Associates, we now have four laws in front of us which we are conducting a joint principle search, which is a bill on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors, the so-called Network of Courts, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors. All four laws concern the functioning and good functioning of the judiciary. I think it is our duty to all of us, that right now, regardless of whether or not we can discuss it in particular, we point out, especially those things that can be done, repaired and contributed to better functioning of the judiciary. I believe we are obliged to draw attention to her and draw attention to all the other participants in the legislative process as soon as we see some uncertainty. Here I am, right now, taking the opportunity to, even with regard to the law that will await us, which is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Civil Service Act, to indicate that there are certain interferences that will occur. Namely, the fact that the government subsequently submitted a certain amendment that goes beyond the framework of the bill. Consider, not to get into a situation, that when discussed, a new Article 1 and a new Article 2 are added and the other members are moved. That's impossible. So right now, I'm turning my attention until we get to that agenda point to either withdraw that bill, or to be aware that we're going to have to change in some further procedure. It will not be possible for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives to pass, unless, eventually, we have that session, and we pass without it on to the plenary session and raise our hands by ignoring such a single thing. So here I am signaling right now because we received this amendment, just as I signaled, that when the law on the so-called network of courts arrived, that the bill practically annuls the agenda point on which we decided at the last session, which is the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. We have elected the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, Mr. Milenkovic, on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, and we have come to the situation that when we received this proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, the Executive Authority, or the Government, proposes a law in the text that practically repeals this choice. Unless we change this first law that you have proposed, Article 14(4). The bill, we elected Mr. Milenkovic for a week, because we are obliged, after the adoption of this bill, to appoint the competent institution to appoint the performer in the period, from the practical vote of the law until 1 January, because on 1 January of next year, it is the beginning of application. In that sense, you let us try every law to fix, every bill that concerns a network of courts that came into the procedure here in front of the Assembly, every draft law I submitted the same amendment, no one wanted to hear, it's not about the human resources solution, whether Mr. Milenkovic, or someone else. But it is about proposing the institution that also proposes the president, including the performer of the post. So in that sense, consider these suggestions as well-intentioned and as attempts to correct a particular proposal that is in the process. In any case, apart from the topic that needs to be discussed, which is to worry about the exercise of minority rights in terms of language use, because I draw attention if the bill is adopted without change, Romania from Mramork, the village of the metal municipality or, the Hungarians from Korenec, what the Hungarians say, they should be tried in the basic court in Smederev, the Supreme Court in Smederev, the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, whether via Panchev or through Smederjev and the budgetary obligation to ensure translation, but to be aware of the need for those people who need translation. There are rights, among other things in Article 11. The Code of Criminal Procedure, where the parties are witnesses and other persons participating in the procedure, shall have the right to use their language and letter during the proceedings, and this falls to budgetary means. So these things are indisputable, I'm just pointing out that some of the things that we need to provide in tech are, so to be aware of all that. But there's another thing, for example, in the draft law on the network of courts regarding violations, from the Kovin Municipality, practically, there's a decision going through Panchev, I'm speaking in terms of trial for violations, in terms of economic disputes, the same trial against the Court of Commerce in Panchev, and in the trial according to the basic courts is headed towards Smederev. The fact is, when the crime took place in Kovin, a police officer from the Panchev Police Department and a Smederev prosecutor will leave. There is a possibility of a technical good alignment, but believe me, if we have a prosecutor's investigation that we're trying in some way to make right, and we're seeing a lot of problems in that part already, we should follow that up and in that sense related to the 1st point of the agenda. I know that it is necessary, in respect of the fourth item of the agenda, that the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office should not be bound by the Republic Prosecutor to submit only one regular annual report, but to enable and create an obligation that the Republic Prosecutor, in the event of a need and more frequent report by the parent committee, or by the competent committee of the Assembly, because there is no reason for the Assembly to waive its supervisory and control of the role. In that sense, the proposed amendment, I only point out to you that this is necessary, especially given that there are phenomena in the media when information about criminal proceedings appears, which are only available to participants in the process, such as information on the determination of detention and other information, even regarding the content of trans-sceptics. Then, it also happens that in electronic media, such information appears even more than an hour before it happens without any reaction for the time being. It deepens the lack of trust in the judiciary. In addition, we have not only cases, but also occurrences when those institutions leading the proceedings, for example the prosecutor who is leading the prosecution investigation and the judge for the previous proceedings which plays a role in a particular procedure, point out for themselves that they are not immune to pressures and that remains unresponsive. For example, if those who conduct the procedure under their claim are allegedly upset by the public to the extent that it can compromise the smooth and fair conduct of the criminal proceedings without at the same time requiring their exemption from the procedure, it is a huge problem for the whole judiciary. In that sense, let us consider this, especially in the assessment of whether there is a reason set out in Article 211(4). The Code of Criminal Procedure. Everywhere we have this kind of pressure that prosecutors and judges can't resist, to see if these prosecutors, these judges, can handle this procedure. Finally, in the end, I would just point out one more illogicality with the hope that you would correct that in the Law on the Law of Courts in Article 7. The draft law, which treats Article 23 of the basic text, judges the Supreme Court for damage to the reputation of the foreign state and international organisation, and the Supreme Court does not judge the violation of the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, for the violation of the reputation of our country. In that sense, I also point out that all of my discussion is seen as a contribution to improving what is possible to fix. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26444	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26445	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will speak more in my address and discussion about the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. I must say immediately that the SPS, as our authorised representative Petronijevic has already said, will support both this and these other laws in this set that we are considering in principle today. As a party, we have always been prepared to amend and supplement the law, and we feel that it is unnecessary for the legacies of the legislator to be held by the latter and not changed, and the reality has shown and life has shown that there are certain shortcomings and shortcomings. We have participated in the adoption of these laws before because of the reform in the area of justice, and we certainly support the reform. Today we also support this law that actually changed the concept and improvement of what was done three years ago. Comparations that are often at work when laws are passed with EU standards do not respect specificities with us in what life is, reality, so that no respect is given to what is territory, population density and traffic infrastructure, then the economic and social position of the population, standards, finally and traditions. It has been shown that the current territorial organisation of the courts does not respect the basic principles, and above all I think about the availability of justice, rationality and equality of justice for all citizens. Already in 2010 the wider and professional public in Serbia and also in the area of Braničevski County reacted to these problems stemming from the application of this law. For example, the General Court in Pogorevec covered huge territory, so that the parties came from over 100 kilometers away, of course all participants in one procedure too, and for formal reasons it happened to cancel the procession of a certain day and then the high costs occurred. Secondly, when we talk about what the judicial units were in a larger number than the proposed law now, where we have a smaller number of judicial units, I would say that this is not even somewhat comparable. Here's why. There could have been a number of judicial units, but if they didn't work at full capacity, as we are now saying will work in the sense that both guilt and litigation are being tried in the judicial unit, that the other actions that citizens need to perform in judicial units are certainly another story. In the past, we had all the guilt and good part of the lawsuits being tried in the seat of the courts, even verifying certain documents or issuing certain beliefs had to be done in the seat of the courts. For these reasons, citizens have also reacted to local self-government. For example, both in Velika Gradište and Petrovac in Mlavi municipalities of local self-government in 2010, they reacted together with the bar, more specifically with committees and subcommittees of legal chambers. Unofficially, other parts of the professional public participated and certainly contributed to these changes as early as 2010, 2011. Finally, today we have the pleasure of changing these laws. I hope we're going in the right direction and we're going to have, like, a improvement in these areas. That's why we support these changes and this is practically one follow-up to the reform, and in one good direction. We have now corrected what was not good in the past and I hope it will work better. I would like to say a few words about what this law provides for, and this is about territorial organisation, as regards the area of jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals. It's about Belgrade and Kragujevac. The higher court in Pozarevec and the main courts in Braničevsky County will fall within the area of jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac. It's been in Belgrade so far. Geographically, Belgrade is closer, but not only that, traffic communication is very unfavourable towards Kragujevac. There is only one bus line at half-six a.m. for Kragujevac from Požarec, Žaguvica, Golubac and the most remote municipalities, from Petrovec to Mlava, from Velika Gradište, from Kučev there is no traffic communication at all. Also, by changing the Law on Court Order, we have that a large number of crimes, primarily from the area of guilt, go to jurisdiction in the second degree in several courts. For example, there were over 900 cases in Pozarevc for 2012, which were sent to the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, and of which over 700 were actually what was condemned, i.e. those acts for which the sentences were threatened up to five years in prison. That goes to more courts now. So it's one moment where there's a discharge. This is not just the SPS position, this is the attitude and the professional public in Braničevsky County. That, Mr. Minister, I'd like to talk to you about when we're in particular talking. In any case, the SPS believes that by passing these laws we have not come to an ideal state and solution, but we will also follow, as Mr Petronijevic said, who spoke here on behalf of the SPS, and all the difficulties and problems that arise in time to remove, so if new amendments and additions of these laws need to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26446	The word has a folk MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26447	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have reported that I am talking about a set of judicial laws that is on the agenda because I feel a commitment, because I was talking about these laws and when they were adopted in 2008 and every time they were changed or amended. Then, in 2008, I said – it is certain that these laws are not perfect because no law can predict all the cases and not all the changes that will arise, because life is always more inventive than the law, but they are written best as it can at this time because domestic legislation and court practice, legislation and the case law of European countries and EU recommendations have been used for their writing. Now I can say that I was right and that it turned out and proved that what I said was true. As for the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, I will speak more closely when we consider amendments to this law. I would like to ask the motion whether you have done a thorough and detailed analysis of the functioning of the courts, the burden of the judges by the number of cases, the number of outdated cases, the costs of the work of the courts and the judicial units? Such an analysis would give us a basis to accept that the solution offered is good. This way, the flat rate, it's more expensive, it's going to be cheaper and so on, makes us reasonably suspicious that the solution offered was inspired by political or other reasons. In his explanation, the promoter says – given the fact that the criminal proceedings and most of the litigation proceedings were conducted at the court's headquarters, it created major problems and costs both for the parties and for the other participants in the proceedings, and particularly for the lawyers involved in their coming to trial. You don't have to propose, especially you, to take care of lawyers. And I'm a lawyer, and I know lawyers charge their expenses. We're capable of taking care of ourselves. Your mission, as well as the MPs elected by the citizens, is to take care first of all of the interests of the citizens. When you say that a network of courts and public prosecutors will be more rational and cheaper this way, I can say that it will be bought for more citizens who need to exercise their rights before judicial authorities, but as citizens from certain parts of Serbia will pay more to get their rights and justice, it does not matter to the applicant. The important thing is that the state will cost less. However, data from my colleague Konstantinovic's budget for next year and the budget proposal for the following year clearly show that the state will cost this new solution more. As regards the other draft laws under this item of the agenda, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts is more detailedly designed to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time and the co-operation of courts and other bodies, and everything else relates to the harmonisation of the provisions of the laws of each other, a little improvement and the preparation of concepts and institutes. All in all, there's no sign of your promise of fundamental justice reform. You've always just criticised the implemented reform, the applicable laws, and in fact you've accepted everything that's been done and you're continuing to reform in the same direction and you're keeping the same laws essentially. Don't make any changes. You do not even know how to correct what has proved to be an inadequate solution in practice and what needs to be fixed because of the change in circumstances. Since the great promises, you have done nothing, not even to increase efficiency in courts and speed up the course of the trial, although you have returned 600 judges to the courts. As a minister and as a member of the High Council of Justice, I would like to ask you another question on this subject. Since, for formal reasons, the re-election of judges has failed and you have returned all judges to the courts, when will the criteria and criteria for the judge's performance and when will start to apply, to assess the efficiency, the urgency, the number of outdated cases, the dignity and all other elements related to the work of the judge to show and prove which of the judges who have passed the re-election and those who have not passed, but who have been returned, should remain to perform that function and who not? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26448	The word has a National MP Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26449	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, members of the ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of Courts must be observed through a single invitation to amend and supplement the entire set of judicial laws in order to properly reflect the intention of the legislator to look at the proposed solutions that will contribute to the overall improvement of our country's judicial system. The cancer of our judicial system is the length of the trial, where certain litigations last longer than the Greek siege of Troy, and some are outlived by both parties and judges and lawyers. The parties to the process in amannet leave the heirs with a lawsuit to the last pair, and in the end they do not know what the claim is, nor what is the subject of the dispute. Also, our overrich Serbian language knows the phrase "I will drive it to God's court", and since the session is delayed until further notice, our citizens are using the legal right to write performances to the European Court of Human Rights as the last and only instance to which they trust, and before that instance, or before the court in Strasbourg, the number of performances of our citizens is so much that they place us in a fantastic sixth place by the number of complaints and performances filed. The costs the Republic of Serbia suffers from compensation for its citizens, most often due to violations of the right to trial within a reasonable period, should not be debated in particular. It turns out that the state in the budget pays first unscheduled judges and judges who work too slow, and then pays out of the budget the damage caused by their unhappiness. Well, it's not always like that. Judges by law, and the procedural law allows both parties and their lawyers of various marifetteluks to withdraw the case indefinitely, i.e. like a year of hunger, every one of their own interests. On the other hand, the real life and the material legislation that has been made the way it is, generates countless unnecessary court disputes that burden the work of the courts. For example, property disputes generated by hereditary relations, purchase contracts, gifts, distribution of assets for lives, etc. would be in a far smaller number if there was an armed obligation to enroll in an immobility cadasar, immediately after the conclusion of the legal deal. At that time, it would not have occurred to anyone to enter the right of property according to a contract he made 30 or 40 years ago, but, behold, he was lazy and did not sign up, so now he's running a marathon lawsuit to get his grandkids from the immobiliser's grandkids to give him property rights. And yet, everything on the burden of the budget and the damage of the citizens who fill that budget. I mean, even though it is the intention of this law to speed up the work of courts and make them more efficient, in order to achieve this, habits and legal gaps that are generators of litigation must be changed, including the harmonisation of both material and procedural and systemic laws. Although the current Law on Judges was passed relatively recently in 2008, and it started to apply in 2010, if I'm wrong, you correct me, it showed inconsistencies and legal gaps that need to be removed as soon as possible. The objective of amending and supplementing the Law on Judges is seen primarily in the pursuit of our legal system becoming as effective as possible and allowing citizens to protect rights and interests within a reasonable time, but at the same time regulates the status of judges, their responsibility towards the state and citizens, introduces additional transparency in the work of courts, but also respects the letter of the Constitution and preserves the independence of judges as individuals and the independence of the court as an institution. In accordance with best practice in comparative law, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Judges in a detailed manner regulate the possibility of highlighting the state's regressive request towards unconscious judges, in situations where the state of Serbia is forced by the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg or by the decision of another international tribunal to compensate its citizens for the unconscious work of judges or to collect damages caused by deliberate irregular work. In practice so far, the often misused Institute of Depreciation of Criminal Persecution because of changes in circumstances that the court could not influence, is replaced by an additional restrictive provision of the law which states that the case can become obsolete only because of the poor work of the judge in question and the failure he has made. On the other hand, the proposed legislative solutions allow third parties or participants in court proceedings to inform the President of the Court if they have objections to the work of the judge. As a newspaper, it is the obligation of the judicial administration to notify the applicant of the outcome of the proceedings. At the same time, judges are allowed to join in professional alliances which primarily aim at improving the position and conditions of the judges' work. The constitutional category of inability of the judge is further precise, so that the law states in a clear and unequivocal manner when the judge can be transferred to another place of work and against his will. I must point out in particular that this proposal amends and complements the Law on Judges gives the right and comprehensive importance to the High Council of the Judiciary, because the principle of the directness of the interview is introduced in the election of the Judges, i.e. the High Council of the Court, is obliged to carry out for the first time a direct interview or interview, which I think is very good with any candidate for the judge of the Court of Justice or of the Court of Justice. Under the new Law on the National Assembly, the High Judicial Council will propose only one candidate to elect a president of a concrete court, which has not been the case so far. The election of the President of the Court is precise, so the term of office of the President has been increased from four to five years, but according to the practice and legal solutions, for the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the president of the lower courts will be able to perform that function only once or once, i.e. once. they will not have the right to be elected in two or more terms. In the end, I'd like to say something in a few words about amendments to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. These changes and additions bring about a better organisation of the public prosecutor's office, completes jurisdiction, ensures more efficient work of the public prosecutor's office, aligns with other laws, with consistent monitoring of international standards and respect for the basic and highest legal act in our country. In voting day, the SNS will support this set of judicial laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26450	Thank you. MP Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26451	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the case of these four laws in the field of justice, we see that the time of mannequins' smiles, in the beginning of evading the encounter with reality, cheap criticism and demagoggy, uninitiated ambition, cynical calmness, we see that the time of quasi-salon ignorance has passed and that the great bubble of soap left only the fog that continues to be sold as an alva wrapped up in the whole of some universal haughtiness, but what and what much is on the market, the price is rapidly falling. In the case of these four laws, you have to admit today's heavy hearts that we from the DS are better than you, that we worked better, that we worked better for the benefit of Serbian citizens, that you had to give up your system of values that you've declared for 23 years, difficult years, and to accept that system of values and those principles that we've told you about. I'm not going to read you what you said when we were doing justice reform. I'm not going to read your statements right now, here's a statement from a gentleman who throws away, what he said about judicial reform, and what reform of the reformed judiciary he announced, but I'm only going to tell you the truth, read what the Venice Commission says about what you're doing, and what you're proud to call on. People say that the draft amendments to the Law on Judges and the Law on Regulating Courts in general are positive, but they are quite technical. They act as if they are not too significant in relation to the difficult situation currently in Serbia's judiciary. So the changes are technically cosmetic. That's what I say, but that's what the Venice Commission tells you. If you want controversy with DS, then you have to prepare for it. It is wrong to react to an institution called the DS Parliament Club and attack it with ignorance, untruths and slanders. For this controversy with us, you must prepare yourself and respond to our knowledge either by silence, or by your encyclopaedic ignorance, but by no insults, because it does not go through in Serbia. So you can't act like a fireman putting out a fire with a virgin, because that fire burned out the state. You've told us several times very important things when it comes to judicial reform and a network of courts. For Serbia's citizens alone, I will read not everything Mr Nenad Konstantinovic read, where all Serbian citizens will no longer have access to judicial units and courts, but I will list only one municipality. The Municipality of Luciani and its local community, Guca. Guca is not a municipality, Guca is a local community in the Municipality of Luciani. A very famous local community that organizes a big event. There is no one who didn't run there to take a picture, but unfortunately, you have concluded that Luciani and Guca should no longer have a court and that they should go to Ivanjica. You think it's 30 kilometers from Guca to Ivanjica. You know when someone from Jelen Dole is gonna get on a bus and catch that bus to Ivanjica via Guca and Luciana. He's going to Požega, so he can move to Ariel or Ivanjica. That's a 130-mile drive. Of course, the most important thing is that the citizens of Serbia don't cost a bit. They'll probably teleport to the Ivanjica court on some of your proposals, whether or not with rotational lights as ministers, whether or not without rotational lights, I don't know. But the false claim is that it will not cost any of the citizens of Serbia, and we see it in the draft budget and the money that you provided for the Ministry of Justice. At the end of my presentation, I must tell you that I have listened very carefully to your statements about increasing the number of SNS members. Probably this increase in numbers affects the number of members affected by those 650 judges who did not return the SNS membership card when they returned to the judge's post. But I do know that the citizens of Serbia are thrilled to see how many of you there are. It's so Serbian, so sublime, so advanced. I think they were doing it out of pure ideological initiatives, these judges, that they joined the SNS, they couldn't get back to work. In the end, you always plant us a coward's egg, because when I listened to you read who won't have a court, in that enthusiasm I noticed that there was neither Carlobag nor Ogulin or Karlovec or Virovitica, which is normal, but there is no Kosovo Mitrovica, and that's not normal. I don't know how next time you're going to go to Dvori and Face, which are no longer your popular organization, to tell them why there is no court in Kosovo Mitrovica. Don't tell me there's gonna be one. Here, I invite you, any of you forwards to go to Kosovo Mitrovica's court on May 1st and take them the Serbian flag. For the end, Romanians intend to recognise Kosovo's independence in 2015. When I see this government abolishing the Kosovo Mitrovica court, I see how late the Romanians are for this government. After all, Serbia was the west for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26452	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26453	The Honorable President, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, justice, justice and efficiency and equality in judgment within a reasonable period of time for citizens and economic operators, because we often speak only to citizens here, and we are also talking about economic courts that are, as we know, the third pillar and the foundation of democracy in Serbia. Of course, and when we talk about this and this set of judicial laws, I think we need to look at how important it is to make this area better, to make it even more justice, or to have real justice in Serbia, real justice and efficiency and equality in the trial. I'd call this more reform reforms that didn't work out, we know what she was like in her last term. We've heard some discussions here about that speed, etc. I'd say the Venice Commission is aware of that fact, and I think it's the intensity of this set of laws not to go overnight to make cardinal moves like we did. It's better in the next few years we have the right changes than to cut everything apart and make a mess in the area. This isn't an area where we can play. This is not an area where we can change everything overnight, and on the other hand we think we've changed everything without creating the chaos that we objectively had in one previous period, and that's not the attitude of the MPs. That is the EU's position. I think that this change in "step-by step" can make these basic goals of putting into the right function of this third pillar and the foundation of our society, which is justice, efficiency and equality of citizens and businesses, rather than by cutting and signing some law from Europe, and saying – now it is, and it is inapplicable. I must say, not in my intention to stand up for the protection of judges, but as one of these three pillars of democracy, as MPs, we are often responsible for an unequal trial or different court proceedings or different judgments under the same procedure, so that often by not counting on some legal solutions, we are making room for lawyers to call on some other member of the law by seizing the procedure. Let us be completely honest with how effective the judiciary will be, how even the judiciary will be in its judicial judgment, and that in many ways means how much we are keeping an eye on, in the extreme case, what legal acts, not only this set of laws, but what total legal acts we adopt in this House. Thus, it is in some way our additional obligation. Since I have a little more time I have to say one more sentence about one question and two more about another, which is about the KIM courts. You know, I think we've adopted the Brussels Agreement in this House. The minister said very precisely what the status of the court in Kosovo Mitrovica is, and we don't think it's necessary if there were four appeals courts, to be there, but rather it's better to be in Nis, than to have bad judgments elsewhere. What's it gonna be like? It is a matter of process, so we will decide here in parliament, and I would say that a good solution has been found in this context. When it comes to the court's schedule, I hope the minister will accept some amendments. Of course the desire to get to quality is the concentration of courts and judicial units. We cannot call ourselves to economics because justice cannot be at the heart of economics and savings and efficiency. I must say that the court in Cicevic by the number of cases deserves to be at least a judicial unit. Since 1936, the court has. There's 40,000 residents, and I don't want to get into it. I hope the minister will see that when the amendments are made, that we will come up with an appropriate fair solution and, accordingly, the SPS parliamentary group will support this amendment. If I have one more sentence, I have to say by referring to that analogy or the explanation, if I may say so, to the Minister's remarks on the admission to the judicial order of students from uncertained universities. I'd love to, and I'd like to advocate the equality of economic operators, and so does college. I think there's a way to find a way in the rulebook, Minister... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I'll just finish this sentence if you'll let me. I think there's a way to find a way in the rulebook, if the state's funding students at state colleges, they have to have the advantage in the work of state authorities in total. How will you legally find that to ensure equality? I don't know, but it doesn't make sense that the state is funding students in one place and then they don't have... It has been decided in many countries, including France, that they have an obligation to work for eight years in state authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26454	The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic. The remaining time for the DS parliamentary group is three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26455	Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, colleagues and representatives of the ministry, honourable MPs, in all of my three minutes, I am aware of only one issue that I consider extremely important, although the minister has repeatedly confirmed that there will be no dispute or problem. It is the use of the language of national minorities in court proceedings. I'm talking about why it's normal that we don't have a dispute here, that it's a constitutional category. This is the Constitution guaranteeing the right of national minorities. We have signed four bilateral agreements with neighbours, with Croatia, Hungary, Macedonia and Romania, which we have committed to protect and provide the possibility of using minority language in court procedures. We are signatories of the European Charter which protects regional and minority languages. In our legislation there were four laws that regulate it. They'd say we're out of control. We have the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, on official use of language and letters and two procedural laws, and each in their own way speaks of this problem. What I'd like to point out is that when I mention all of this that this area is regulated, that these provisions, by following the Constitution, are not in the best harmony of individual laws, have a little imbalance and regulate the area in different ways. What is certainly not disputed is that all these laws allow for this use. There we will surely agree, however, with the experience that I have with being a member of the national minority and I know what our hardships are in the use of the official language and letters, it tells me that it is not so simple to promise that something will happen, that there is much to be done in order to use the language of the national minorities in a judicial procedure in the right sense. From an analysis carried out by the citizens' protector in Serbia's territory, it has been suggested that, say in central Serbia, there is almost no use of the languages of national minorities in the official use, and even where the request is put in place, comments are very inappropriate, they say they are looking for it to slow down the process. The most commonly used in Vojvodina is traditionally multinational and where this tradition exists. In doing so, the Hungarian language is not used equally in Vojvodina, which means in the environments where they can, the most common is Subotica, Zrenjanin, Senta, once Temerin when he had a court was known for it. You spoke to the ministers about the problem Vršac had. By the way, I come from this neighborhood, I know a very good neighborhood, and I know how hard it is for my villagers to conduct a court case in Serbian, that doesn't mean they don't speak it, but the termology is not familiar to them. Therefore, they should be enabled to educate judges and other judicial officers in order to be able to use their language and should be excessively, given that the terminology cannot be taught from the dictionary, at least some laws should be translated into the languages of national minorities, as this would allow better training for the work of staff in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26456	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26457	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am quite surprised to admit that I do not come from the field of justice, some of the "unknowing" that those who were supposed to be experts in this area, especially if someone teaches at the Faculty of Law and, in the future, needs to get out of that law school to come out of the judges who are going to be educated and who should renew the honor and dignity of that call which, I am sorry to say, that honor and dignity has been completely lost in the last 20 years, and in the last 10 years after reform and deformity, should not even be spoken. In just a few hours, I was collecting comments on the break, what do the citizens think about the judiciary, the judiciary, the network of courts, etc.? Of all the comments I've received, and there are hundreds of them in two hours, which I've managed to collect, none of them are positive. It speaks of what citizens think about the judiciary, and I must say that many of us here have spoken in a very pink and positive light about the situation in our judiciary, in our prosecution, about the network of courts, about the network of prosecutors. I'm not into modeling smiles, but I'm not for prosecutors, especially these most important republican and organized crime, not for bringing them to the State Secretary's weddings at the Justice Department, it's unacceptable for me. This speaks of the connection between the executive and the judicial authority, especially if the groom and the prosecutor are not in a family relationship. If they are, that's the only problem. So, I'm not for that kind of model smile that shows up at those weddings, where it wants to show the power of the party over the judiciary and to let it know to the citizens who are being tried, in which network of courts will work, in which network of prosecutors. I'm not surprised by the past network of courts and a network of prosecutors, since the minister of justice was a lady who used to work at the Office of the Ministry of Justice, and between officials at the justice ministry and the justice ministry had an odyssey called the prosecution. In 2003, a former justice minister or justice minister was elected a prosecutor, or appointed against the constitution. So, the former minister became an anti-constitutional prosecutor, i.e. the minister, and it was the constitutional court in 2004 and declared that the appointment in 2003 was the former justice minister who later became justice minister, and then became prosecutor, unconstitutional, and Bruno Vekaric was appointed at the same appointment. So I ask the minister of justice, is it true that in 2004, the Constitutional Court declared the unconstitutional Law on the Prosecution by which they were appointed, Snezana Malovic as prosecutor and Bruno Vekaric as prosecutor? I'm asking this team before Bruno Vekaric remains deputy war crimes prosecutor and has not passed the first election in the Assembly. So, later on, I would like to ask for your attention, the D.A.'s office has re-elected him as deputy war crimes prosecutor, regardless of his failure to pass the first election in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So I would like the Justice Minister to answer whether the 2003 elections were against the constitution, or whether the Constitutional Court has declared it unconstitutional? Also, I would like to hear from him whether the same Constitutional Court, or in the second Chamber, has declared the President of the Supreme Cassation Court an unconstitutional choice? Today, when we listen to the criticisms of these laws, we need to know that most of the elections, most of the decisions during the former government, were declared unconstitutional and that even those whose elections were declared unconstitutional, were managed by the judiciary. That's why I'd like to be answered if that's possible. Our people say they have no confidence in this verdict and about all the comments come down that the poor woman has no right to sue, that she has no right to hold onto the handle and that she has nothing to hope for when she grabs the handle of any court. The network of courts that were, it was such that we from India and Paz had to travel from 50 to 70 kilometers each day to get to the court, or the first basic court in Sremska Mitrovica. In doing so, we spent about 100,000 for a year, which is why the parties in the process, which is what the lawyers spent about 100,000 euros a year, because the basic court was only available to them in Sremska Mitrovica, so from Paz, Banovac, Belegiš, Slankamen, Indjije, Novi Karlovac, they needed to travel to the First Court and, of course, cars were used and more than 100,000 euros were spent on that transport. Also lost every year about 40,000 hours during a trip from those places to a remote court, to an available court, was available at the time. I'm not surprised that we're being gossiped today and the worst things about this law are the ones who have implemented the reform and deformity of the former court. With them, the Goddess of Justice was so blind that they brought her in and joined their party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26458	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26459	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we have today a set of laws from the judiciary. Making a set of laws in the area of justice is the right thing, both for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the state of Serbia, for several reasons. I'll just name a few. First, the application of these laws will improve the work of the judiciary. Secondly, these laws will contribute to restoring the confidence of our citizens in judicial authorities, which has been lost in the previous period of the former regime. Third, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be given easier access to justice. Fourth, stronger fundamentals of the rule of law on politics will be established. Fifthly, the application of these laws will contribute to the modernisation of Serbia, which the SNS heads up with its president, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic. Mr. Minister of Justice and State Administration Selakovic, you inherited the Ministry of Justice and State Administration at the moment when the judiciary in Serbia, according to European officials, was the worst in Europe. Serbia was last in line with the basic criteria for the work of the judiciary. Then, Mr. Minister, you inherited huge problems from the former regime, and I'm only going to name some. First, from unremembered scandals in the staffing and exorcising of judges to unbalanced crimes, the judiciary then rocked as a building prone to fall. Secondly, the former regime government has appointed judges who have never worked in the judiciary, had no results in their work, and have chosen, believe it or not, and a dead man for a judge. The judges were shocked to see that a dead judge, or their late colleague, was on the list of elected judges. The European public was also shocked. Third, some judges also died of injustice, 14 judges, according to the president of the Serbian Society of Judges, or committed suicide, as was the case with Slobodan Francic. Fourthly, the former regime's network of courts made overnight, was made by political decisions and was not based on the rational needs of the Serbian state. Fifth, the former regime had no courts in border posts. The sixth, the former justice regime was not available, in the former regime for Serbian citizens, as they traveled and lost all day long for the smallest confirmation. Seven, the former regime has drastically reduced the number of primary judges. Eight, the former regime had no courts in towns with populated minority communities. Eight, the former regime's authority has cut down on the number of judges and the most experienced and capable. The 10th, the High Council of the judiciary in the former regime fully coincided with the resolute ministry and executive authority, mostly the ruling party. Now, the former regime, Mr. Minister, has brought the judiciary into such a state that there is no dedicated lawyer who has not seen the tragedy of the judiciary as a tragedy of the profession. Mr. Minister, your choice for Minister of Justice and State Administration turns this situation into justice for the better, for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia, for the benefit of justice and justice, which the European Commission also recognized, and that is the real thing. That is why you, Mr. Minister, and the team of experts have formed a new national strategy for judicial reform for the period 2013-2018, adopted by this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 1 July 2013, as well as an Action Plan for the implementation of the national justice reform strategy. The action plan developed complete measures to be updated each year based on an analysis carried out in the previous period. These laws on courts and public prosecutors are increasing the number of basic courts from 34 to 67, thus correcting the error of the previous regime. This will reduce certain problems and costs, both courts and participants in the process. This will bring the basic court closer to the citizens of Serbia, which is of great value. Furthermore, injustices will be corrected for citizens, done in the former regime, by allowing easier access to justice. This is also the most important reason, as you have stated, for the adoption of this law, because the judicial units have proved to be inadmissible. Basic courts are basic courts and the majority of citizens address precisely the basic courts in order to protect their rights and interests. It's strange, Mr. Minister, that some law professors were criticizing it today and yesterday, and students are watching them, and they're probably surprised by their claims. Finally, I am convinced that the adoption of these laws will contribute to the greater independence of courts, impartiality and quality of justice, expertise, accountability, efficiency of our judiciary. Mr. Minister, your involvement of the judiciary in Serbia is increasingly taking on the outlines of European judicial values and solutions, as well as domestic Serbian judicial traditions. The Serbian Progressive Party is proud to have such a minister, an honest, honest, deeply professional and valuable and large patriot. I call upon you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the day of the vote, to give your vote for this set of laws, regardless of the party's commitment. By doing so, you will certainly be participants in the modernisation of Serbia, conducted by the SNS headed by its President, Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26460	On what basis, Mr. Stefanovic? You have no reason for replication. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the site: The party is mentioned. He did mention the former regime, but the former regime is a broad term. According to the Rules of Procedure, Janko Veselinović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26461	Articles 105 and 106. I think, chairman, that you should have given your word to Mr Stefanovic, as an authorised representative of the DS, for the reason that it was spoken directly about the former regime in which the DS, if we say so, was a key factor in that government. However, what you should have noticed and what you should have told the MP who was speaking, and also to the public, the MPs in the O.R., is the fact that he was addressing the nonexistent man. In fact, he was talking all the time and talking to a minister who isn't here in the O.R., making him praises, and you know that that's even the reason for the interruption of the session, until the minister returns from the break, or that it's unusual to work while the minister is away, especially if a man has such a desire to talk about him as trustees of our legal system and as someone who achieves the objectives of the target by Mr. Alexander Vukic, who is also not in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26462	I remain on the stand that the Rules of Procedure are not injured. In the term "ex regime", I could find myself, since you know that in the last term we were together. That's one thing. Secondly, when it comes to the minister, if one of the MPs doesn't want to speak when there's no minister, and it's up to me, I'll end it. Since that's not what the MP asked for, and otherwise the minister will be here, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26463	The Honorable Chairman, of course, would like Mr. Minister to be here, but I won't ask for an end to the session because of that, especially because I belong to the SNS parliamentary group. The minister is also ours, so it wouldn't be right. What I wanted to say was I wanted Mr. Minister to hear, so I'm going to ask Secretary of State Neđa Jovanovic, even if he listens to what I'm saying, even though he, I see, is talking to a colleague. Mr. Jovanovic, since the minister is not here, if you could at least listen. A joke aside, I think this two-day debate is about to end, that we're all tired, but that doesn't mean that what I'm saying right now is less important than what we heard in the last two days. We have a very important set of laws, especially the first law - the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. It is one of those laws that is said to be important, that a large number of citizens are actually interested in them, are watching this session and waiting for what the National Assembly will bring and what kind of network of courts and public prosecutors will adopt. I know that many proposings, so I believe this promoter, Mr Selakovic, will say that in the statements of MPs, regardless of whether opposition or position, there are many local patriotism, there are advocates for courts in their places, in places where MPs come from. At first, I will say that I support everything that my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group have said about this set of laws, particularly the authorised representative of our parliamentary group, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. All the praises that have been given for these laws and I support. However, as president of the Bosniak People's Party, a minority and regional party, I also have praises and regrets for this set of laws. I would like to commend that the Sanjak municipalities of Priboj and Sjenica had their basic courts back by 1 January 2010. Also to Novi Pazar, the neighbouring municipality of Raška was given the basic court, but I will say that the Tutin municipality, according to all these criteria, was before these municipalities. If they had received the basic court, the Tutin municipality had to also receive the basic court, as well as the municipality of Nova Varoš, even if the court unit. That's why I'd like the minister to be here, because he's from the municipality of Nova Varosh, and I thought I'd appeal to him to get Nova Varosh a judicial unit, and the municipality of Tutin's primary court. Tutin municipality is located in the southwestern part of Serbia. Its surface area is 741 km2. There are nearly 37,000 inhabitants. Someone was referring to the climate criteria, so I can tell you that the climate in the Tutin municipality is almost the same as in the Sjenica municipality, although the Sjenica is famous for being the coldest city, but Tutin is here somewhere with her. Then, it is a border municipality, a 60km long border towards Montenegro and a 40km administrative line towards the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Then, 99 inhabited places that are very scattered. It's very weak travel communication and the connection of these places. Now you can imagine a citizen who needs to come to the Tutin municipality first, and then go to the basic court in Novi Pazar. True, Tutin is about 35km from Novi Pazar, but the road between Tutin and Novi Pazar is the worst in Serbia, so it takes him over an hour, regardless of the mileage, to travel by car from Tutin to Novi Pazar, unfortunately. I have submitted amendments to this bill. Usually MPs say – I will vote depending on whether my amendment will be accepted or not, but I will say otherwise this time. I will surely support this set of laws of political correctness towards the SNS as a political partner, but I wanted Mr Selakovic to hear this, to seriously consider these amendments. I'm not making any demands, but I'd like to appeal to him to consider this seriously. During the debate in particular, there will also be opportunities for this issue to be potentiated and to ultimately improve this proposal, for the Tutin municipality to receive the basic court it had, as the people say, both during Tito and Milosevic. It was abolished by the previous government, but we were hoping that this one would bring it back and hopefully we'd succeed. Also, to get Nova Varosh a court unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26464	Thank you. I believe the Secretary of State will pass it on to the Secretary of State. The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26465	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Mr Jovanovic, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a set of four laws from the domain of the judiciary, and I will talk about the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. Although I'm no expert in this area, I'm going to make some kind of comment. I know that the Ministry, headed by Minister Selakovic and his associates, has long and carefully worked on this set of laws, taking care of many facts and, with the positive opinion of the Venice Commission, the SNS parliamentary group will certainly support this set of laws. Since 1 January 2010, the Law on the Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors has been in force for almost four years, since its application, many shortcomings have been seen in relation to the territorial organisation of basic courts and primary prosecutors. Since criminal proceedings and the majority of litigation proceedings were conducted in the courts' headquarters, there were also a lot of problems and high costs for all participants in the proceedings. In addition, the majority of municipalities were left without a basic court, although the number of inhabitants and the traditional existence of the basic court was not standard and standard, which was certainly not justified. So the municipality in southern Serbia, Vlasotince, was left without a basic court, to which the municipality of Crna Trava is also gravitating at the border with the Republic of Bulgaria. For the return of the basic court in Vlasotinc, I was approached by a group of citizens of the Municipality of Vlasotince and the Municipality of Crna Trava. Then I have a request from the municipal public defender of the Municipality of Vlasotina. Then, by decision of 26/09/2013, the Municipality of Vlasotince requested on behalf of its citizens that the General Court of Vlasotince be organised as the primary court of Vlasotince, not as a judicial unit. Otherwise, the basic court in Vlasotanc should cover, superficially speaking, an area of about 615 square miles. The population is about 40,000 citizens and 73 populated towns of the two municipalities, the most of which is about 70km away. In line with the above, my proposal, it is possible for the basic court to be planned in Vlasotinc, which I, along with my colleagues from PUPS, have submitted an amendment, that the judicial unit, which was planned for Vlasotince, should be assigned to one of the municipalities as for example. the Municipality of Ljig, or the Municipality of Varvarin, and that the basic court be organised in the Municipality of Vlasotince. Of course, that will be said when there are amendments. What counterpart Mujo said, regardless of the ministry's procedure under this proposal and this amendment, the SNS parliamentary group will vote for this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26466	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26467	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State, and until recently fellow MP, I am taking the opportunity to congratulate you on your appointment as Secretary of State. I expect you to contribute at least as much as you did while you were an MP. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have been following events in the National Assembly for two days that are very interesting, both for us MPs, so of course for the citizens of Serbia, and especially for representatives of the judiciary who are expecting changes, which at this moment await what fate theirs will be determined in this high house. We listened for two days from various political groups and political options to criticise those who worked on draft laws in 2008 and 2009. Try to reverse that 66 courts are less than 34. We have also heard that there are no solutions for the courts in Kosovo and Metohija, and it is clear that all courts, all prosecutors, remain to function and that a special law, which is due to the specificity of the situation, both political and state and national, I would say, in which Serbia is brought in when the time comes. Anyone who is well-intentioned and rational fully understands the essence that the judiciary in Kosovo continues to function, that it is not covered by this set of laws, but will continue to work without any interference, but also certain provisions of these laws concerning courts and judges and prosecutors will, of course, be applied to all colleagues who work there. The strangest thing is that some people have criticised that we on the SNS district boards have decided where the courts will be, where the prosecution will be placed, and I am informing the public because it may have missed someone, that the SNS district boards have been missing since February of the month when we changed the Statute. I was the chairman of the County Committee, not anymore. So we didn't have any meetings, none of us were consulted, none of us gave an opinion. We didn't do as the previous regime did, and in 2008 and 2009, she worked best in Nis "Niska meaninga". She worked for it because there was a group of elites from the previous regime, who determined who would be the judge, who was the best man, who was who I picked up, who was in charge of whom, where there would be basic courts, where there would be none. There are various maps developed, various maps, various ballots added. In this way, we have come to such a justice system as condemned by the Venice Commission, which has given us the worst possible assessment of the judiciary. What I know is that in the last 15 months, Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic has been in this parliament 22 times. He made proposals for laws that are very consistent, which are an attempt to correct, correct, supplement, amend and better reverse the situation in the judiciary. With the desire to take another step towards the EU, to become an honorary citizen, to have the right to justice, to have the right to an effective trial, to a fair trial, that judges and prosecutors who do their jobs can free and uninterrupted from political parties, parties in power, do it by their best conscience, and of course by the laws of this country. In that sense, these laws are also proposed. I would like to apostrophe specifically the Law on Courts and Areas and Public Prosecutors. What is very important to say, of course for the public of Serbia who is interested in this, so far there have been 34 courts in Serbia now scheduled 66 courts, I mean basics. Which means the increase is almost double. He who knows what the basic courts are, who entered the courts, and most citizens, of course, are, implies from a guard post through a dactylograph, through security, through offices, litigation, out-of-party, executive departments, criminal wards, judges who do the guilt, judges who do the lawsuit, who do the outsiders. So, one complete round system. So now with this proposal, we have given the opportunity to round up in 32 other cities a whole called the basic court. That's, of course, an advantage, except for those malignancies who would want 34 to be more than 66 or 66 to be less than 34. You know how, in politics everything is allowed and obviously Makiaveli here has a large number of supporters and people who would want to achieve a political goal, are able to use both notorious lies and lies. There were also 34 basic or state-run public prosecutors, and now that number is up to 58, with it usually being uniform that the basic courts are being followed by the basic prosecutors, but it was also going here for one prosecution to cover the territory of two basic courts. I can be commended anyway because it's very economical. One newspaper that didn't exist, which is that the judicial units used to mainly do litigation, mostly in the smaller part, and that the new regulations predict both criminal matter and litigation. So it could be almost an imitation or part of a vast, large part of the work of the basic courts where it's foreseen, except that in places where there aren't and the judicial units can be given days of judgment. It's a good tradition in the Serbian judiciary. That's what happened before. In places where there are not enough cases or there are very small numbers, of course, it is allowed to organise court days, collect all cases, and in ten days choose one working day when you will call the parties. This reduces the costs of their arrival at the court's headquarters, and on the other hand increases the efficiency of the work. The Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors is, in my opinion, a balanced law. It seems to me that when a proposal was made to be in 182 municipalities in Serbia in every municipal court, one prosecutor's office, none of them would satisfy it, they would say it is small and that it is necessary to have maybe two courts in a municipality. But it's just impossible. We are a very poor country coming out of a period of total economic, economic downturn, a collapse that we almost didn't experience that there was a change and formation of this new government on July 27, 2012. I'd like to give a special example of balance in the Pcin County. It provides, according to the old law, that there was only one basic court in Vranj, three are foreseen under the new law, in Vranj it remains, in Bujanovac will be the basic court and in Surdulica. This will also be brought to the network by prosecutors, which will be the Prosecutor's General Prosecutor's Office in Vranj, who will provide good services to the General Court in Bujanovac, and in Vladic's Han will be the General Public Prosecutor's Office, which will cover the territory of Surdulice. It should also be noted that there are judicial units of the General Court in Surdulica, Bujanovac and Vladic's Han. In this way one climate was created and the possibility for people from Bosilegrad to reach the basic court in Surdulica, to do whatever is necessary, and of course, what will be there and the judicial unit can also be done many other jobs. I said this because I think it's mentioned today that Presevo was supposed to get the basic court, but it's impossible for you to have four basic courts in one county, because that would be too ambitious, it would be either at risk or inappropriate for everyone else. As for the language and the letter, as the MP from Presheva spoke of it today, of course, this law does not regulate it, a special law will be regulated. Also, in the current Vranj basic court, colleagues of the Albanian national minority are represented in a large number, both in the court and in the prosecution, we also have translators, professional associates, we have dactylographs, so that in some form it is fully satisfied and that some national structure. So, Albanians in Presevo and Bujanovac, have a full opportunity like Serbs, like Roma, no one has the advantage there, nor is anyone damaged in any way, especially with this set of laws. I would just say more about the KIM courts, I would say for the sake of the public, it is quite clear, the establishment of courts and public prosecutors responsible for AP KIM territory, their seats and areas of jurisdiction are governed by a special law. So, it will be regulated by a special law when the time comes, when conditions are obtained and of course we will support it, and we believe that this is part of our territory, that it will always remain in this political sense and legal sense, within the Republic of Serbia, as foreseen by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We also have amendments and additions to the Justice Act. What is most important to me, too, is that damage compensation is anticipated if the judge deliberately, knowingly decides to do harm, to do something he shouldn't, causes damage, and that damage is found in the court proceedings, the Republic of Serbia pays out of its budget a certain remuneration to a natural or legal person for a deliberate violation of the judge. What more honest than that, than being regressed from the judge who did it, and not being allowed to, he knew, so he graduated from law school, passed a judicial exam and of course there was an earlier period, and I hope that such judges will no longer be, but this must be adopted by my deep conviction that we may have a sword above our heads. So, anyone who wants to, who thinks that because of some petty interest, they can finish the job by hurting someone, and at the same time the state has to pay for it, and he has no harm in it. The time has come, if you've done damage, you have to expect to make up for it, because the state is not so rich that it can mostly pay someone else's screw-ups, ignorance or evil intentions. In this regard, I fully support the decision and the proposal set out in this bill. As for the transfer of judges, it is perfectly legitimate, clearly, given that this whole set of laws will be needed when adopted, that certain judges will be relocated, or returned there, and I expect it to be very voluntary, that it will be without anyone standing up to it, because anyone who lives in Presevo, Bujanovac, Surdulica or Han will be very happy to return to their home municipality and do their work with neighbors, friends, without burdening the state with travel, expenses and everything else that has happened so far. Of course, before adopting a solution, to refer to the judge, the opinion of the High Council of the judiciary will be obtained, as well as to any judge in which the judge is elected and the court referred. Therefore, all these colleagues know what to do and of course no one will want to do any harm. One institute is also being introduced, which is that the judge's evaluation is being carried out. So far, there has been no ad hoc, occasionally, and when someone needed to be shot off, then the rules of an ad hoc commission that would remove a judge, a prosecutor. This time, the VSS commission values the work of the courts and the president of the courts, the commissions are composed of three members in which the judges of the higher level value the work of the judges and the president of the lower-level courts. What's more natural than this? More experienced judges with a longer standing, and the assumption that they know more, control the judges of the lower court in every way. This also prevents obsolescence, because every time and every month if you give reports, you have to say why your case isn't scheduled or if it is scheduled, why is it delayed indefinitely, to prevent what's been going on for about ten years, and what some MPs are now honoring and talking about the fact that antiquity has occurred now. Obsolescence occurs by passing time, and for ten years someone else was in power, so all of this is out of date, so the effect has now been achieved since a month or two ago. Another thing, as far as the president of the courts is concerned, very cleverly, the president of the court is elected for five years and can only be chosen once and it cannot be some hereditary function that is obtained in the way that someone has always had some political sponsors, who have held him in office. What's more important, just another sentence, the law on the regulation of courts, must introduce the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Of course, that's why we've had great damages, complaints, a huge number of people complaining, and a large number of people have been talking about human rights in Strasbourg, and it has to be interrupted. Anyone who thinks that his right is not respected, has the right to address it by means of a submission, to ask for it to be determined, and when it is established, of course, that there will be fair compensation, and thus we prevent people who are damaged from addressing higher instances from speaking to the Constitutional Court with constitutional complaints, and then all of this goes through the service, or submission to their own republic. As a result, I think that one in all of this law and all of these laws are interrelated, which will contribute to better work, more efficient work, more free work by judges and prosecutors in Serbia, and that is why the SNS in the voting day will vote for this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26468	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. You've got ten minutes left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26469	The Honorable Chairman, honourable members of the Justice Minister's cabinet, fellow MPs, is ahead of us on the second day and a set of judicial laws which and how they represent a bold step towards reforming the judicial system. Why are they a brave step forward? Because the judicial system is certainly one of the most destroyed systems left behind by the former regime. What's this about? In 2010, a network of courts was brought in, and the network of courts appeared to have continued to operate from once 138 basic courts to 102 judicial units. Anyone who understands the legal system certainly knows that the primary court and judicial unit, especially in the way it was regulated by the previous law, is not the same. This certainly did not mean equal access to justice, not to citizens, not to economic operators, nor to all those involved in the trial, which are judges, lawyers, judicial assistants. As absurd as that was, he's telling the simple fact that the court system worker, with the SS, in the name of travel expenses, going from one place to another, was getting more travel expenses than it was his salary. Why is this bill of court and public prosecutors' seats now good? Why is he really a brave step forward? Of course, judicial reform does not end with this set of laws. The reform of the judiciary is a process that will continue. The laws are a living organism, they change, and not as they were in the previous period whether laws are passed that are not applicable at all in real life and cannot be served in the service of citizens or economic operators or other participants in the judicial process. Now it forms 66 basic courts. Citizens and economic operators are the most directed to protect their rights towards basic courts. Also, one number of judicial units remains. Why is this bill of court and public prosecutor's office good? Because he was preceded by the Strategy for Justice Reform, which we all here, as MPs, had in the National Assembly and discussed. Of course, the Justice Reform Strategy is accompanied by an Action Plan with precise deadlines and by specific perpetrators of certain types of work, i.e. certain activities. Who has given a positive assessment of this bill, or even the reform of the judiciary so far? It was done by the European Commission, by the Venice Commission. What is also commendable, which is that the public debate lasted long, that experts in the area of the judiciary, from the district of the prosecution, were included in the draft laws. They had the right to comment on local self-government, cities, municipalities, and that international institutions were involved in the adoption of these reform laws. What I must mention, anyway, is that this reform of the judiciary, which concerns the seat of the courts, was corrected by one injustice that referred to a judicial unit in Priboj. Namely, Priboj municipality is the only municipality in Serbia in which citizens cross the state border four times. There used to be a judicial unit, and now there's a basic court in Priboj. Apart from the fact that justice will be available to citizens and economic operators in an adequate, more efficient and economic way, this time I must point out that on October 31st, in the Municipality of Priboj, Mr. Alexander Vukic was the first Deputy Prime Minister. He gave FAP workers full support on the way to the city's economic recovery and finding a strategic partner, and FAP is the same as Priboj. With the economic recovery of this city and the existence of the basic court, certainly the citizens of this municipality will adequately satisfy this right. Now I'd like to refer to the Courts' Law, and that would focus on three members. The first member of the law I would focus on is the right to protect against delaying court proceedings, i.e. to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. In fact, the previous law allowed only a constitutional appeal, and now it gives the right to apply to a higher court, and a higher court may set a time limit within which a lower court is required to act, as well as to determine compensation if the right to protection of a court is violated within a reasonable period of time. Also, against the court's negative response, an appeal to the Supreme Cassation Court is foreseen. This should certainly improve the judicial system from a more effective and effective justice aspect, that it does not happen, as it did in the earlier period, that the judicial proceedings, which concerned the protection of children's rights, lasted two years. Two years in terms of an appointment of the first hearing. As regards the Law on Court Orders, I would particularly like to highlight a member of the law relating to the sittings of the Court of Appeal, which concerns the examination of all issues of dispute and the unification of case law, so that it does not happen in the same legal case to citizens in a different way. I would like to refer to a member of the law that says that in the higher courts and courts designated by the High Council of the Judiciary may, within the framework of the judicial administration, organise support and assistance services for damaged and witnesses, especially for the crimes of organised crime and crimes related to domestic violence. I believe that these services, which will be organised within the framework of the judicial administration, and how they can in an adequate way provide assistance and support to witnesses and damages in these proceedings, especially if we know that the victims of domestic violence have a perception that they are guilty of something and that very often happens to give up court proceedings. Certainly the availability of justice, economically, efficiently, a modern judiciary, a judiciary that seeks the standards of European legislation, is something that the SNS will certainly support and that is something to seek. What I want to ask you, Mr. Minister, and to point out, it's the Municipality of Nova Varosh. By 2010, she had a basic court. He's had a court unit since 2010. I know the parameters by which you have determined both the judicial units and the jurisdiction of the basic court, but given the configuration of the terrain itself, at a distance, on a large number of winter days, at 2,750 cases on an annual level, if there is a possibility in the interest of both citizens and economic operators of the municipality of Nova Varoš to remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26470	The Serbian Progressive Party has wasted its time. The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26471	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the Ministry, the set of proposals for a law that is before us is one of the first steps to be implemented in the judicial reform process, in line with the Justice Reform Strategy, adopted by this Assembly and to the extent that existing constitutional solutions allow it. As recognised by the Strategy itself and the Action Plan itself, there is much to be done in the perspective to make the judiciary as the third function of the state government in everything equal to the other two – legislative and executive and independent of them. In this regard, the proposed law, as a pillar of the judicial system, seeks to solve in practice identified problems in the implementation of laws governing the fundamentals of the judicial system. I'd just like a few of my views on the draft law on areas and seats of courts and prosecutors. The law seeks to address the first of several key problems encountered in the judicial reform process, on the one hand the availability of justice to citizens and businesses, and on the other, the rationality of the network of courts, the public prosecutors from the point of view of spending funds, labour impact and burdens on cases. An analysis of the effects of the existing network of courts and prosecutors has shown, as the motion suggests, that there is a huge disproportionate burden on judges with both old and new, i.e. the cases received in relation to the areas of the courts. In addition, the analysis showed that the greatest burden is precisely in those courts that citizens most often encounter, which are basic courts. In this particular section, the most intervention is with changes and additions, i.e. By introducing more basic courts than the existing ones in those places where the analysis has shown the most just, respecting additional criteria, such as legal-political reasons, the geographical configuration of the terrain, the existing travel network, the ethnic composition of the population, etc., it is envisaged that 66 basic courts are formed with 34. On the other hand, there is a reduction in the number of judicial units that have proved irrational in terms of spending both courts, court travel costs, case migration, as well as parties and their lawyers, as in certain cases the parties were forced to travel 50 to 70km to come to trial. The change in the number of basic courts is necessarily followed by a change in the number of public prosecutors, with the possibility that the accompanying law should not necessarily set up a public prosecutor's office in the field of one basic court, but may also set up a department of prosecutors. (President: Time.) ) With regard to higher courts, the existing number remains, while their jurisdiction is extended to the basic courts established by this law. In the case of appeals courts, the area of jurisdiction shall be changed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26472	Mr. Velichkovic, the time of the parliamentary group has been spent.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26473	Let me just say that the PUPS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support this set of laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26474	The word is from MP Bajro Gegic. You have five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26475	Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, we have been looking at very important law in the area of justice for two days now, among which the main focus is the Law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, so I'm going to say a few sentences about him. The relevant Law on Courts and Public Prosecutors has stemmed from the 2009 judicial reform and has been applied since 1 January 2010. The importance of reform and this law also received poor grades from the local professional public, and in practice they have shown many shortcomings. As a result, amendments were made, i.e. making a new law aimed at removing these shortcomings and at correcting them. You, Mr. Minister, explained yesterday the reasons for passing these laws and highlighted the goals you want to achieve. All you've said about that is that it concerns us in order and acceptable. However, I do not think it is fully respected in the proposal for this law. I'm from Tutin and I want to observe this law based on how the Tutin Municipality was treated in it. The Tutin municipality had a court for violations, a municipal court and a municipal public prosecutor's office until the reform was mentioned. The reform mentioned above has all been abolished, i.e. removed or attached to the relevant authorities in Novi Pazar. We have followed your evaluations of the existing solutions and the announcements of the criteria and principles on which this law will be made and we have hoped that Tutin will get these judicial authorities back. Turns out, however, we had a bad estimate. Tutin's proposed law remains without these judicial authorities. This solution is unacceptable, unacceptable, unfair and unprincipled for us citizens of Tutina. Tutin is a border municipality. The border with Montenegro is about 60km and the administrative line with Kosovo is about 40km. Territorial is one of the larger municipalities in Serbia with 741km square. More than 31,000 people live in the Tutin Municipality and are mostly Bosniaks, as much as 90%. Even if we count about 10,000 of those who stay abroad for a long time on temporary work, at least they hoped it would. Tutin is one of the most underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia. The unemployment rate exceeds 70%, the infrastructure, and especially travel is in extremely poor condition. The Tutin municipality has 99 settlements, over 500km of local roads, of which less than 10% has been paved. The Tutin-Novi Pazar road is the only link to any other municipality and is estimated to be the worst and most dangerous in the Republic of Serbia. You can't travel those 35 kilometers faster than 45 minutes. Some villages are more than 40 kilometers away from Tutin. Roads, as I said, mostly macadamic, winters long and cold with lots of snow, no public transportation. In order for a caveman to do some need in court, he needs to cross in one direction and 75 kilometers of an extremely bad path. During the summer period, it takes him all day, and in winter, he's two days short. Instead of opening new institutions in Tutin and other remote municipalities, undeveloped municipalities, border municipalities, making life easier and cheaper for citizens, the opposite happens. We ask that all municipalities and all citizens are subject to the same rules, the same criteria, the same principles, that we all be equal and equal. If so, there would certainly be both a criminal court and a basic court and a municipal public prosecutor's office in Tutin, and a basic public prosecutor's office in Sjenica. In Tutin there are all conditions...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26476	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26477	Mr. Minister, please find a way and remove these obvious shortcomings and injustices that I'm sure you see too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-05-0.u26478	Thank you. Olena Papuga isn't here. The next day we have Ana Novković, Karolj Čizik, Jelena Travar Miljević and Branislav Mitrović. We're finishing work today and continuing tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Jovana Mehandzic Djurdzic and Gordana Comic. We continue the joint principled search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
