ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. On the basis of the official record of the presence of MPs, I find that 160 MPs attend the meeting, and in order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 106 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I'm asking the National Assembly to call the minister to enter the O.R. Consensually. 86th and 87th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time and beyond those provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to discuss the draft agenda law set out in the Government's request to hold an extraordinary session as soon as possible. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Proposer Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration, I have also called for the members to attend Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Legal Affairs and International Co-operation in the Ministry of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, which was convened at the Government's request, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold the 10th Extraordinary Session, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the 10th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, the next Dn e n e d 1 was set. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, which was submitted by the Government. We're going to work on the agenda. Mr. Palalic, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21907	Mr. President, I would like to intervene in the Rules of Procedure and point to Rule 27, Article 167 and Article 168, which refers to the call for a session within the deadlines set by the Rules of Procedure, i.e. an emergency procedure. We were informed yesterday that the Government of the Republic of Serbia had adopted amendments and additions to the Ministry Act and it, by your decision, was on the agenda of the National Assembly today, i.e. within 24 hours. An explanation of why the government is seeking an emergency procedure is this: "The failure to pass this law by an emergency procedure could cause adverse consequences for the work of the authorities and organisations. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We have been following in public the debate on reconstruction for six months, so that it will eventually be reduced to the division of one ministry, the Ministry of Finance and Business, to two ministries, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Business. It would just be okay if we got an explanation, which are the adverse consequences, which bodies and organisations will suffer adverse consequences if within 24 hours the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not separate the Ministry of Business and Finance from the two ministries? I think it's a minimal thing we had to get. I don't think it's a good practice, to come up with a debate on an extremely important matter, such as the government's reconstruction, especially what we've been hearing about for six months, and it has come down to the separation of one ministry and, in particular, that the Rules of Procedure say that laws are being passed, issues are being regulated, and the non-compliance of these laws could have caused adverse consequences for the lives and health of people, the safety of the country and the work of bodies and organisations, as well as the fulfilment of international obligations. I think the Rules of Procedure have been broken, Mr. President, and it would be important for the National Assembly to get an explanation, why just 24 hours after the adoption of this law by the Government today, we are in a position to discuss it and what are the adverse consequences that we are going to have, MPs would like to know, suffer if we do not discuss this law within 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21908	Thank you. MP Janko Veselinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21909	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, agreeing fully with what my colleague Palalic said, I am advertising Article 27 and Article 107, first of all, concerning the conduct of the session, and for another reason. We expected the Prime Minister to be here today, Mr. Dacic, which would be a fundamental order, and that would suit the importance of the subject. Instead of Mr. Dacic, there is Mr. Selakovic, whose presence I do not dispute in any way, however, the Prime Minister is the one who is proposing to the National Assembly, i.e. should stand behind the proposal to amend the Law on the Ministry and ultimately for the composition of the new government. I find this irresponsible, that this shows the state of government in which, in fact, Mr. Dacic is not the president, he is Mr. Vukic. On the other hand, if you had six or seven months to reconstruct, the motions for reconstruction, you should have given us at least six hours to consider this law and to prepare in an adequate way. You put us in a position to read the law between 9:00 and 10.00 this morning, prepare the amendments and prepare for debate. This shows the responsibility of this government and I believe that the law has been broken, as well as the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21910	I just have to say because of the public that yesterday we informed all the heads of the parliamentary groups and all the parliamentary groups, in fact, we couldn't get the bosses there, that the law was on the web presentation of the Serbian Parliament. No one had to read it this morning. They could have done it yesterday. So, since it's about changes that are so easy to read in an hour, I don't think it took too much preparation. As everyone said, I think it's time to end the issue of the Ministry Act, and that's why I put this on the agenda as an emergency procedure. Mr. Djuric, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21911	Thank you for this further explanation, Mr. Stefanovic. You've given me an additional argument for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I also think you've hurt Article 27. I think you've hurt Article 86. Rules of Procedure. So aside from you talking for six months about a deep, fundamental, fundamental reconstruction, now you're telling us that your law based on which you're going to do that reconstruction is so light and so insignificant that it's more than an hour enough for it to be read and prepared for discussion. In doing so, I doubt Mr Stefanovic is invited to this session within 24 hours. For what? Because on this document that arrived at 10 and 45 in the Assembly and then seduced, you called a session in 11 hours. I fully believe in your ability to, if it takes an hour for you to read the law for half an hour to see if it meets the terms of the Rules of Procedure, but I do not trust Mr Stefanovic that you have been able to read the law in five minutes, find that he is made up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that you call the session before 11:00. Please do not hurt the dignity of the National Assembly by telling us that the law was on the Internet presentation of the National Assembly. Since there is still order in this country and in this congregation, it is clear how the documents are delivered to the MPs, how they arrive in the congregation. The MPs were informed by phone after 11:30 that the session was called. You were already at the meeting of your party's main committee about that time. I believe that you haven't been able to eat that apple as fast as you needed to read the law and that you're asking us here today to pass a law on the basis of which you're going to reshuffle the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21912	So everything was done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the material was delivered to the MPs in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and everything was done as it says there. Of course, you have the right to ask us to come forward on voter day, I don't mind. Do you want us to get to the bottom of this on Vote Day? You do, all right. Mr. Trnavcevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21913	Mr. President, breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that you are in violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning your functions; 27 and 28. On Thursday again this August, there will be no opportunity for MPs to ask questions to the prime minister and ministers. Article 205 says – On the last Thursday of the month, however, there is an additional provision – if the session is under way. For whether there will be a session in progress or not, you are responsible for setting up the start for the session not to begin on Monday, as it is today, but on Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, so that MPs, at least that's what I insist on, because that's how you... Mr. President, you're not listening to me. You're not listening. In this way, it expresses the relationship between this legislative highest authority and the executive body, such as the government that needs MPs to answer questions and to sort of account. Secondly, I'd like to warn you, Mr. President, that you are no longer doing what you did during the last two months on several occasions when you started your campaign to make the first Deputy Prime Minister ideal, the Prime Minister. (President: Don't discuss this because it's not the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It's the same violation of the Rules of Procedure, sir, because you're the first...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21914	Mr. Trnavci, thank you. I understand you need to say something that's part of your political agenda, but I won't allow it. So, in any case, I don't think I've broken the Rules of Procedure, and we can't prejudge whether or not I'm going to schedule a session that will concern asking questions to the government. In the past few months since the session, there have been much more sessions that have been held by the entire government headed by the Prime Minister than in the past 10 years. So, really, don't honor me for something that can't really stand at least not in this assembly of parliament. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21915	Dear Doctor Stefanovic, I also advertise Article 155's injury. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which says that the draft law prior to the session of the National Assembly is discussed by committees in charge. Among other things, not all the committees in charge today considered this bill. As far as I know at this point, and this is also due to the fact that you are calling a session on your nose, among other things, not called, let's say, the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. In these small ones, as you say, the amendments to the laws, that is, the government's organisation and the ministries, most of them apply to the Ministry of Finance. There are some changed responsibilities. Some of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Finance have now gone to the new Ministry of Economy, the Finance Committee, or the Committee on the Control of the Expension of Public Funds, will not be able to supervise under Article 44 and other provisions of this Rules of Procedure with such a law. That's why I think it was important for that board to come forward with this, but that's not there. Please, then, Mr. Stefanovic, call that committee when you have already broken down until the beginning of the session of the provisions of Article 155. Rules of Procedure. Another thing about it, Mr. Stefanovic, is how this session was called. Did the office of the Assembly work yesterday afternoon? She did, she was working the moment you decided to send these laws. For everything else, not for the opposition. You know, LDP is not a problem, we said five years ago that the government should have 12 ministries and we have a clear concept and we've prepared the amendments to this law and filed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, five, six amendments have been submitted by the LDP. But it's about you constantly trying to send a message about how you're going to introduce that work ethic, that working discipline, your working condition, and then you're making fun of the Assembly when you call the Assembly this way. Therefore, it is not possible to level the Assembly by standards and by the responsibility it puts before itself in its work LDP, but by some average attitude. You will see what this debate will be like for you, as the Prime Minister is not at your session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21916	Thank you for your commendation that the congregation service was working on Sundays, and the secretary general was here all week. The Assembly has worked and we will try to work in the future at the weekend, try to respond to all the demands of the MPs, and I certainly don't think that a broken member of the Rules of Procedure, of which, of course, the National Assembly can plead in the day of the vote. Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21917	Mr Stefanovic, I am reporting in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure that regulates our work. Of course, you can use any argument by listing some of your political views, although it is clear that at the beginning you are doomed to failure in front of anyone who respects common sense. You know, it's your problem as well as discussing your ruling coalition. I just need to remind you of something. The political life in this country didn't begin when you and your party colleagues changed or finished dressing. It is not true that in Serbia's parliament, governments were not asking questions. They stood up and the government defended its policy in conditions that are unimaginable for those in which you are running parliament today. That's the answer to both you and the one you allowed to play Prime Minister and yesterday's most normal suggestion of the opposition corresponds to the accusations that we are irresponsible, rude and that from the reconstruction of the government that is so serious a job, that it comes down to the division of Dinkic in half, we're actually making a circus. The circus is when you've been putting society at risk for six months with a number of problems, a crisis, because you're incapable of regulating your relationships. We'll talk about it, of course, when those who need to have these conversations show up. The first man of the government, or Vukic and Dacic, who doesn't care what it is in the government while he can represent himself as her president. Mr Selakovic, of course, with the law with which he came to the Assembly, will get our answers when he speaks to us. Just respect the facts and stop acting the way it suits you because we don't have to tolerate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21918	You've received the bill of law submitted by the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to the parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which you have received the details in the material. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. Does the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21919	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you today a bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. The continued and effective monitoring of the work of the State Administration Authority is one of the preconditions for carrying out tasks under the authority of the Government and its authorities. In addition to a number of activities in other areas of its competence, the government has been constantly monitoring the situation and estimating the need to amend and supplement the Ministry Act to create normative assumptions for a more adequate and rational organisation of the state administration, as well as more successful functioning of ministries and other bodies of the state administration. The current reconstruction of the government in a political sense is also an opportunity for the results of monitoring these activities to be given their legal form. In the performance of the operations, the Government supervised the work of the state administration authorities, directed the authorities of the state administration to implement policies and enforce laws and other general acts and coordinated their work. The work of the ministries, the authorities of the administration in their composition and special organisations was as large as the work of the government. Taking into account the scope, diversity, effectiveness and effectiveness of the work of the Government and the authorities of the State administration, it was possible to access an analysis of the effects of the work of the Government and its authorities. The conditions in which the Government and the authorities of the state administration carried out tasks of established competence and, above all, the inherited effects of the work of previous governments and the overall state of relations in the international community, and particularly those related to the economic effects of the crisis, have significantly affected the effects of the work of the Government and its authorities. In doing so, it was necessary and had to be taken into account that the activities were effective and that the government did not engage in the redecoration of its and the organisation of a state administration body which would be its sole purpose, or which would call into question the stability of the functioning of the state authorities, and possibly conditioned that an early electoral procedure be entered. The latter said it was necessary to approach changes that would provide a necessary and effective effect, which would necessarily improve the situation in areas of which development and progress depend essentially on improving conditions for the development and progress of society. In this respect, the state of illicit development of business and activities and the associated state of public finances, and the continuing budget deficit, conditioned that special attention should be focused on those areas. After reviewing the situation and the comprehensive analysis, it was assessed necessary to access the necessary changes in the areas of finance and economy. Given that, according to Article 97, point 16. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia shall arrange and provide for the organisation, jurisdiction and operation of the Republic of Serbia, as well as Articles 136, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Constitution, the affairs of the state administration are carried out by the ministries and other authorities of the state administration by law and that the affairs of the state administration and the number of ministries are determined by law and that the laws adopted by the National Assembly pursuant to Article 99(1) of the Law, in order to implement the government's policy on the issue of the organisation of the ministries, it is necessary to create a legal framework. Therefore, the reasons for the adoption of this law are examined in the need to create legal assumptions for the implementation of the necessary changes in the functioning of the public administration body, including the application of new ideas and methods of work which will ensure better quality of the work of the state administration authority. In addition to the above, changes in the arrangements of the State Administration Authority should provide adequate grouping of business in certain related areas and a greater specialisation in performing identical or related transactions, with a view to enabling these changes to raise the level of efficiency and efficiency in the work of the State Administration Authority. Consistent with the reasons for the adoption of this law, while respecting the principle of rationality, in organising the conduct of state administration affairs, this law proposes that the conduct of state administration affairs be organised within 18 ministries. The proposed number of ministries relative to the current situation is an increase in the number of ministries for one ministry, as a result of the definition of groupings of equal or related businesses, and the essential specialisation of jobs. In this sense, it is necessary that the current Ministry of Finance and Business, which has carried out various jobs from various, different and specific areas of finance and business, be grouped into two different ministries, in the finance ministry and the economy ministry. The Ministry of Finance proposes a grouping of state administration operations, which includes, among other things, the Republic budget, public revenues and public expenditure, the management of the public finances of the Republic of Serbia and the coordination of the management system and the implementation of EU funding programmes, macroeconomic and fiscal analysis, the quantification of economic measures, policies, public procurement, the prevention of money laundering, gambling, fiscal monopolies, foreign exchange system and credit relations with abroad, financial relations system with abroad and international financial organisations, credit monetary system, banking system, property insurance and persons, payment and payment system, securities from the value of the capital market, accounting and audit systems, accounting statements, accounting, budgetary control of all the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, territorial autonomy and local self-government and social security organisations, and other matters, by law. In that ministry, in accordance with this law of the affairs of the state administration, which, among other things, relates to the determination and collection of taxes and tax controls, and the detection of tax offences, and their perpetrators and tax accounting, as well as other tasks of a certain law, carried out by the tax administration as a body of the administration in the composition, and the affairs of state administrations and professional tasks relating to the customs duties of goods, customs controls and other tasks of passenger control, the transport of goods and services abroad, as well as other tasks of a certain law to be carried out and carried out by the customs administration, as the authority of the administration in the composition of the Ministry. In the economy ministry, it is proposed to group state administration operations, both in terms of business and economic development, position and integration of companies and other forms of organisation for the performance of operations, proposing measures to encourage investment and coordination of investment-related businesses, economic policies for the development of crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises, and entrepreneurship, and privatisation, bankruptcy of standardisation, technical regulations, accreditation, measures and valuable metals, tourism areas, construction of municipal and business infrastructure, a system for developing project improvements, as well as other tasks set by law. In that ministry, in accordance with this law, the affairs of the state administration, which, among other things, relate to the control of dimensions and precious metals, legal units, ethlons, criteria as well as other tasks laid down by law, are carried out by the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals, as an authority of the administration in the composition of the ministry. The principle of grouping of related transactions, taking into account the type of work and type of public administration in which certain types of business can be carried out, conditioned that this law proposes and appropriate changes to the work of individual ministries, which also provide for a more rational grouping of transactions from individual related businesses. In this sense, this law proposes to ensure that the foreign affairs of the state administration, in the areas of relations between the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora and Serbs in the region, as well as other affairs, which are laid down by law, governing the achievement of diaspora and Serbs in the region with the country of origin, but also in accordance with other law. In addition, the work of the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration has been detailed by the agreement of the e-Government development strategy in the Republic of Serbia, whose realisation plays a key role in the Ministry of State Administration's affairs and is foreseen in this respect by the Ministry to carry out the tasks of the state administration relating to the proposal for a policy and strategy for the development of electronic administrations, the preparation of laws, other regulations, standards and measures, in the field of electronic administration and international co-operation in the field of electronic administration. Secondly, it proposes that the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, as a ministry, whose work is part of the regulation of the state administration's affairs, is one of the most important tasks of the state administration relating to the overall analysis of the effects of the regulations. In third place, it is predicted that the ministry is also assigned to the state administration's affairs relating to property legal and other real legal relations, which surrounds the entire area of civil law within one ministry and facilitates the process of codification of civil law. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, according to the current practice of this law, the status and position of the authorities of the state administration for whose organisation and part-round of the proposed solutions have an impact. In this connection, solutions providing both a continuous and smooth continuation of the functioning and operation of the authorities of the state administration are also proposed, with the implementation of the process of taking over all the necessary elements of the organisation to which such continuation of the work is provided. Convinced that this bill, if adopted, achieves a more rational and adequate regulation of the work of the department's jurisdiction as well as the bodies in the composition, I am convinced that you will try to improve your amendments as much as possible and that in the day of voting you will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21920	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21921	I must admit that I am not surprised at what I heard from you, Mr Selakovic, because after six months of nonsense, it is impossible even by reading a speech that anyone knows who wrote, to bring a little reason into the topic in which your leading coalition here today started in parliament. Try to translate into Serbian everything you've read to us, Mr. Selakovic. All those phrases and words without any content actually confirms what we have said so many times publicly and here in the debate and acting outside the congregation. It is impossible to reconstruct your government, Mr Selakovic, because reconstruction would mean giving an answer to the question of what is the common goal of the parties that formed the ruling majority in Serbia. What kind of new policy does your ruling coalition think is coming to that end? Why is the government's reconstruction theme even open? Because of the budget deficit, how did you state it to us in the light of the law? Have you raised the issue of government reconstruction because of the crisis in international financial markets? Is that why you brought Dacic down, from the first day he was appointed as Prime Minister, criminalizing him in tabloids who know more than any of you in the ruling majority? They know who will be candidates for the minister, you don't know, Mr. Selakovic. They know the future order of moves in the country. They know who should be arrested in order not to see what can no longer be hidden, which is that the authorities in Serbia do not have enough for all of you who took it thanks to the incompetence of DS a year ago, so now that little remains you have to redistribute among yourselves by taking those with whom you shared that power by yesterday. You know what the problem is, Mr. Selakovic? Which isn't this country of your property, it's not even owned by the LDP, and we're equally responsible for it and you don't have a sense of it. Why would the government's reconstruction be a topic for hundreds of thousands of people who are out of work today? Why would the government's reconstruction be a topic for parents whose children should step into schools next Monday? Why would the government's reconstruction be a subject for the sick, for the peasants who are to sell their annual genders at a price that can't cover the costs they've come to? When none of these issues and the questions that they're running in themselves, there's no reason to the Law on the Reconstruction of the Government that you're reading to us right now, what would any of us be bound by your personal relations, your observations on the subject of Dacic, SPS or Dinkic? A month ago, we told you here in the Assembly that budget rebalancing is a mistake, that budget rebalancing in advance is about the fact that your government is falling apart and that it's a cheap buy of time with great consequences because it's the only resource we don't have. You destroyed 20 years of life in this country and then you finished your dress, you took off your badges and you stepped in front of us with the ambition to enlighten us because of what you're saying today, what we said 20 years ago. What do we need to support from what you said, Mr. Selakovic? If you don't have to, why don't you talk to us at all? Why aren't you on an Internet presentation by the Serbian Parliament, I believe this can enable you, Mr Stefanovic, to announce who the new ministers are, to organise a vote on the main board of their party, to finish the job? What do you need the congregation for when you don't respect it? You don't respect the government, you don't respect your coalition partners, you're not the first to do that, but once we have to stop, and we're in the mood to be the ones to try and stop you. There are too many major consequences of your actions, irresponsibility, party blindness, tabloidd intelligence that has made politics estradic and is now expected of all of us to either participate or disappear from the political scene. We don't think either. The message to Serbian citizens is that they will not find the necessary strength and vision in the reconstructed government, because you did not come to the reconstruction by answering what was wrong with what you did last year. Then, formulate a new policy, and in line with the new policy, we looked for some new people. A year of work by your government, the president described her successes, speeding up European integration, solving problems in Kosovo, reducing deficits, public debt, preventing the country's bankruptcy. So did six months of Serbia's torture eventually result in Dinkic's shift? Even your party who often likes to say to himself that she knows more than what she is willing to share with us, and your party didn't know what she was going to do with Dacic who went out to a press conference and said – I won't let Dinkic in the government, and you, Vukic, if you want to come with me, then break up with Dinkic, and who won't go to the Democrats and the LDP. You worked so thoroughly on the reconstruction that three days after that you kept quiet, scheduled the main board, and then said, "We're not going to go to an emergency election, we're not going to go to December, and by December we're going to throw as far as we know and know." It costs, much more than any loan, I'm talking about a resource that we don't have anymore, about time. Everything you've done in the past year has been driven by an ex-post mind, and that is why Serbia today with never greater and more concrete support for solving key problems in the country is falling apart before our eyes. What was your obstacle to adopting our proposals a year ago aimed at reforming the public sector in Serbia? Will the new finance minister do it? Well, first of all, we appreciate his age. He's young. At the age of 29, I became head of the parliamentary majority in the Serbian Parliament. I appreciate anyone who is willing to take responsibility today and enter the government, but why should we appreciate it more than you appreciate all of you running for office, who are willing to spend those 29 years and that university that ended, despite Serbia, a university in a country that wasn't against when you were all against anyone who said that Serbia needed that kind of political orientation. Imagine that the new candidate for the finance minister went where you took us when he went to America to study Yale? Who they'd run for office today. In front of those facts, you have to stop. First we get an answer to the question since it's being divided, we're going to skip these precious metals, and I don't know any more of that nonsense you mentioned, but let's just bring it down to one question. Can you tell us, since financial and economic portfolios are being shared, what will be the orientation of this new economy ministry, so that we can possibly support it, since it has now been extremely important to connect the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy in this organised Serbia. It was impossible to bring any concrete measure without absolute consent on one plan or another. That's what Dinkic as minister understood. It seems to me that, in your party's opinion, he did well. Besides, the Wolf wouldn't have made him his deputy. Well, since it's all so crystal clear, try to be clear about the law you came here to parliament with. Is there also a party to your ruling coalition that hasn't insisted in the past year on reducing the administration, raising the efficiency of the government? Is there also an epic performance of representatives, first, of your party, then of the ruling coalition, in which there is no potential for greater efficiency in the work of the government, for more concrete speed, uncompromising action? Well, where's all this in an Internet presentation you hung on the site yesterday? What happens when you choose your government by voting, and then go back to your cabinets and continue as you did in the previous year? To plot and intrigue and collect political points by offering the majority in the society an alibi for Serbia's collapse. It is true, Serbia did not fall apart. It's the price of the wrong policy and we've said it so many times, the policy people voted for. Why can't Serbia change when you change? Yeah, but that's not the answer to the problems he's facing today. You've reformed the judiciary nicely. You must be proud of that. It is still necessary to return the old network of courts, that each president of the municipality has his own court, his prosecutor, his police chief, and there's the feudal Serbia, in the Middle Ages. You have a great solution to the problem with Nata Mesarovic, with the prosecution, with Kolesar, with Miskovic, with everyone you can mention or not, with Karic, but it does not make enough people in Serbia, with the mayor of the Kings. Do you know where he is today? With imaginary affairs, with the Legion's officers in working groups, with judges stealing elections at the post of assistant at the Justice Department with you. So when you start like that, as much as Serbia is willing to punish the DS for what it did, giving you the perfect opportunity to just keep on being like them, you finally get to the wall and now you have to think about it. That wall of Serbia must not be struck. Unfortunately, the answers to the problems cannot be found in this kind of debate, because it is not driven by sincere concern in Serbia, but by the desire to win power with the support of those who do not want to give you their share of power. You mention extraordinary elections and say that you are entering a government reconstruction to avoid early elections in Serbia, and you are working for them alone. And it will be in December, right after the Kosovo elections. As far as we're concerned, your government cannot expect any support from the LDP. We have come up with a clear proposal from the government that we want to see – 12 ministries, withdrawing the state from all segments of society in which it creates damage and works so that no one, except those in power, can benefit. It is nice that your government is leading a new policy towards Kosovo, only it would be very good that in that policy, besides you who agreed to it, because it would agree to anything that allows you to remain in power, and Serbs from Kosovo accept that policy. It would be better for you to go further than Milosevic and Seselj, the way they led Serbia, so that you stop looking for some new Egyptians or Martić, rather than try to make arrangements with those who live in Kosovo and allow them to step into a rally that you dragged them into with your politics, and then leave them there, to return them from the barricades to which you carried them, and we invited them to solve their problems in another way, because they left the people there. The economic picture is catastrophic because the economy is the clearest indicator of the situation in society. The economy does not suffer your empty words, directed performances. The economy doesn't recognize life on the front page. The economy shows how much work is done in Serbia and the economy places the price on the country's policies. The price is due to be paid by your ruling coalition for the past year, to be paid by Socialists, who for five years supported Dinkic, who supported him, were in the government with him for five years and two, three years supported by a minority government in which Dinkic was also the finance minister. You can ride a tiger or any other animal, but other than trying to make us laugh with your comparisons, try to remember all those who need serious leadership, a clear plan, the possibility of answering the question of what life will look like in this country tomorrow, in seven days, in a month, in six months, in a year. No serious decision has been made by any concrete result in Serbia, and before that, we have not prayed and asked for something like this and clearly supported you when you finally decided to agree to this policy. The way you came in front of us today is unserious. He's not fair to the people in this country who deserve more than a referendum who knows who wrote it. Imagine if you'd forgotten those papers someone put in your folder and maybe you had to say something with your head, what would the debate in this House turn into? I'm truly sorry that you missed the opportunity to take advantage of the support you had in this society, you don't have it anymore. Unfortunately, in that we are incorrigible champions, unable to learn something from our own mistakes. What will you do with the support you have when you acquire it in populism and demagogy? What will you do with public enterprises when you explain to people that you will lead Serbia by working and paying for our past mistakes and the inability to face them today? I don't expect you to accept our amendments, it seems completely pointless to ask the government of 12 ministries, I don't expect you to withdraw from sports, because who knows what other way they would then seek a solution to their frustrations from another life. There has never been more chaos in every segment of our public life and there has never been a greater presence of the people of power in it. One day you're privatizing Star and Partizan, and the next day you say what you're asking us about Star and Partizan? (President: Time. As far as time goes, I can only agree with you. These 20 minutes are the same waste of time as everything we've said in the past year, because your partner for talking Serbia is not in you, and so are we.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21922	The word is Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21923	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I welcome the president's tolerance. I'm advertising Article 106 and Article 107. Article 106(1) states that the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under investigation. Article 107 says the use of offensive expressions is forbidden. Just laugh at Mr. Jovanovic. He says, "Who knows who wrote it, what do you think you were saying with your own head?" If that's not offensive, I don't know what's offensive. Translation into Serbian what you read, would it be offensive to ask that Mr. Jovanovic's speech be translated into Pakistani now? Then -Tabloids know who will be arrested, the criminalization of Dacic, you destroyed 20 years of life, addressing a 30-year-old minister. I don't know how someone who was 10 years old in the '90s could have ruined those lives. Then he talked about Nata Mesarovic etc. He said that most likely the future finance minister escaped from a policy run by the minister or us. Just to remind you, he left in 2001, he was in America for the first time in 2001. He enrolled in 2003 at the University of America. What policy did this escape from, since I was a member of the DOS from 2000 to 2003? So what the gentleman before me was saying was very offensive and I think it's a height difference. It's not easy when you go there about 3,000 or 4000 feet above sea level, so you winter, you once fly, and when flying costs you 80,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21924	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21925	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I think I've been clear since the very beginning of my presentation. Today, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act is on the agenda. It's probably legal inexperience or ignorance so that something is called the government's reconstruction law, since there is no such law, nowhere has it been passed as far as I know. Reconstruction can be legal, programming, personal, but it's always legal if the ministries change. Here comes the division of one ministry and the precision of the responsibilities of the two ministries. Therefore, this is not about a comprehensive reconstruction. It may be that someone has overlooked and if someone says I came to this session, unserious and irresponsible, then before that should stand in front of the mirror and look at himself, whether it's responsible and serious with Hvar, with Karakorum, from Pakistan, where the ski dog costs over 80,000 euros if we've heard it. Does someone like that have the credibility to tell citizens? Do these 20 minutes of senselessness and quoting their own text from one daily newspaper to Serbian citizens and MPs at all? Is this about the use of resources we no longer have, that after three, four replicas we saw a long-known picture of taking a purse in your hand and leaving this respectable building that didn't last more than two hours in a year? Is it possible we're waiting again for a plane to be paid for Mikonos, like it was a year ago when we chose the government here, when several thousand euros cost just renting a plane for that trip? Is listening to the truth, if what's said here is not true that the assistant minister of justice and the state's administration is someone who stole the election? Is that also the duty of citizens and MPs? That's not true for criminal charges, not for listening. Whoever is hurt by it, I am convinced that they will, for as far as I know, and as far as I am concerned, among the assistants of the Justice and the State Administration there are no ones who have stolen some elections and I am responsible for that. It would be good to think of those six months of nonsense from 2003, when someone was vice president of the government, what was done for those six months of senselessness, what was founded then? In those six months, it's pointless and one of my future colleagues may have started studying outside of this country. So, during those six months of nonsense. Then no one who has propagated some of their values during those six months of nonsense has ever shown him one single time or anyone else a chance to get back to where he went. If establishing responsibility, and first of all political responsibility, is a waste of time, then unfortunately, that someone is not best able to cope with what Serbia is seeking. Everything and everything and what is in the text of the daily newspaper and what is not there has been presented, but very little has been said about it today’s congregation debate. One question has been asked, but unfortunately, to the wrong address - what will be the orientation of the new economy ministry? I didn't expose here even though you said this was my government. This is the government I'm a member of, and I'm proud to point out. (Nenad Milic, from the city: What is he ashamed of... Then you shouldn't speak in that case at all. In the upcoming course of the debate, please stick to the topic and say why the amendment and addition of the Ministry Act is bad and why it is not. What I was saying behind that, I stand by every word I say. If anyone has a problem with the Serbian language I spoke, let them translate the name of their party into Serbian first, and then we can talk about everything further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21926	Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure or as a replica? It's a business thing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21927	Mr. President, you've injured Article 27. Rules of Procedure. Although I look forward to mentioning all of my extrapolitical activities, I don't think it should be the subject of this assembly. But I agree, Mr. Selakovic, why don't you go to Wolfie's, and let him tell me who paid for my plane and who paid for his plane. While I'm working, I have the right to spend my money the way I want it. Do you understand that? But Miskovic didn't pay me for the plane. Did you hear me? As far as your ministry is concerned, I don't care what you call each other. You brought Nikolic to the ministry to reward him for holding the case against Pahomi in the drawer, until he became obsolete, to reward the president of the court who stole the Nis election. I loved him. Karakorum, no, I'm going to Romania either to Carlobag, Carlovac, Virovitica. Is that where I'm supposed to go? Well, I can't make it out of these clothes of yours. I'm glad, but you should tell Mr. Seklakovic to answer what I asked you in Serbian. Do you know what it means when someone tells you to speak Serbian? Do you know what that means because you consider yourself a Serb? Well, tell me what you think, man. Don't mess with it, you're moaning. You have constantly and effectively monitored the government's work, concerned about the lack of necessary efficiency. You did it for six months, then you remembered Dinkic. Why don't you say, six months we've been taking down Dacic, we know that we've come to power for fraud? Where are those sacks you beat up last year? (President: Time. Now they're apples. You put Serbia in that bag. Do you think we're retreating in front of you? I want my children to live here, both yours and mine tomorrow. What kind of land do you make? You let the criminals out of prison. In Serbia, 80% of the crimes are committed by those you pardon for the New Year's Eve. The thugs have surrounded you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21928	Time, Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21929	Mr. Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I advertise members 27th and 107th. I believe that the dignity of this House was injured when the minister so condescendingly and in an offensive manner addressed one of the people's MPs who had previously spoken. That's inadmissible, Mr. President. You should really warn the minister, when he is in parliament, he is obliged to respect the MPs. Unfortunately, I don't expect this appeal of mine to come across a positive reception. You've shown up until now how you've led the meetings of the Assembly, that you just don't have the capacity, you don't have the will, etc. Mr. Minister, if you are the greatest tiger this government has, which has been sent to present in parliament, make arguments for this bill, I could tell you that this is really about a tiger of paper. How did you explain this bill? How did you address the MP without looking at him for the only time? It's just that you obviously don't do your job professionally. Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you at least two questions. First of all, how much was it for those chocolate bars that you bought the Hague defendants with? Would you, Mr. Minister, prefer that Ratko Mladic sits in this House or that he is possibly one of the candidates for future ministers? Mr. Minister, don't forget that you're just one member of the government, and this is Parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21930	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21931	Mr. President, I'm advertising a member of 108 who says that the work at the National Assembly session is the old president of the National Assembly. I've been a MP for seven years. There's an MP here with a far bigger and longer internship. We've never experienced such brutal insults by the MPs by the ministers. We have never seen this in our history of parliamentaryism, that those elected by the National Assembly, MPs, speak to the MPs in this tone. That's really inappropriate. Please allow the opposition to discuss as she has prepared for this session, but do not turn this session into a Farm. This isn't reality. This is a serious life issue today. I think it is very important that we maintain the dignity and reputation of the MPs and that we do not allow this address to be made by representatives of the executive power to the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21932	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21933	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am re-advertising after the new presentation of Articles 106, 107, and 109, especially this on the use of offensive terms from Article 107. The apostle allowed himself to be offended even by threatening to address the minister with a sentence – you understand? Also, it's very offensive, at least for me, given that I come from there, when someone says - I better go to Karakorum than to Romania. We who are from Republika Srpska are very offended. Why is Pakistan better than Romania? Why is it better to climb 80,000 euros on a mountain, why experience such a height difference? Why spend so much money that's earned, of course, on business with stock reserves? So, the previous speaker was more useful than I was, which was earned by giving Fidelinka, a brand was given, security was given, it was given 15,000 tons of wheat, 15 million pounds, it's sold for 23 dinars, it's now coming back, it's bought for 15, it's returned to the stock reserves. Such a business has brought 120 million dinars, over a million euros. So, I know what paid for Pakistani wintering or summering, call it what you want, which pays for that altitude difference that's worth enjoying. But I can't agree that Karacorum is better than Romania. I mean, if the gentleman in question got up on Romania, they wouldn't let me. If he could hide to climb, he certainly wouldn't come back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21934	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21935	Article 27 and Article 107, Mr Stefanovic. You let this debate go in a completely inadmissible manner. I think it is your obligation as a doctor of strategic management to particularly devote yourself to the effective work of this session, to explain to Mr. Rističević that the comment on Romania has nothing to do with the quality or beauty of Romania. Also, I suppose, and Mr. Jovanovic, perhaps he has more to do with that mountain. I think it's a beautiful mountain. But the remarks refer to the stay of Tomislav Nikolic in Romania in the 1990s, when it was produced in the Chetnik Duke. That's why we're trying to show you how pointless it is, the superficial change in your policy, because as soon as someone is waiting for you, to paraphrasise Vojislav Seselj, Mr Selakovic's radical of the '90s broke out. We cannot translate, Mr. Selakovic, the name of our party into Serbian. It's already in Serbian. That's what you did, so I guess you translated the name of the party from the Serbian Radical Party into the Serbian Progressive Party and thus translated it into Serbian and replaced the truffles with apples, so Sasa Mirkovic probably became Steve Jobs, if he managed to bite off only a piece of apple, not an entire apple from one bite. Please, Mr. Stefanovic, to seriousise this debate, to prevent this kind of advertising violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Risticevic is an obvious proof that a change in height is not the only way to reach the state of decompression, which is dangerous. It can also be done in the plains. So, I ask you to get the language and politics of Baldrick out of parliament, to warn your MP group that, as the opposition MPs speak, says in a microphone – no shit or... (President: Don't, Mr. Guric. )......................................................................................................... That you never organize a board of directors like you did yesterday. Make a deal with yourself. I heard that and I was just quoting what was said. I think you have to stop talking that way in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21936	I really think I'm gonna call all my colleagues, because this debate is really going the wrong way, and these are words that shouldn't be used, but in the spirit of democratic struggle, I let everyone who said today say almost everything they wanted to say. I did not interrupt anyone, I did not take his word, I did not warn him to use terms that are inadequate to the Assembly, hoping that everyone is serious enough to appreciate that what he says listens to Serbian citizens, after all, they will appreciate it. I pray that from this moment on, we try to bring down passion and talk about what's on the agenda. It is on the agenda – Amendments and additions of the ministry law. So it's not about human resources, it's going to be in front of the National Assembly in a few days. So today it's about what the minister put out in his opening statement and it's about changing the law that's before you. So, please, let's concentrate on that and deal with it. Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21937	Mr. President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, I'm a 27th advertiser. You know, it's not in the spirit of democracy to allow everything. You have a problem with what Ambassador Đuric said. Why? It doesn't fit that fancy picture you made of yourself. You didn't hear your colleagues say to me so rudely what Ambassador Djuric quoted you to do? Oh, yeah, of course. You want me to tell you who was sitting there so he didn't see the cables pull out and the people watered, when the shamarans were MPs? Is that democracy? We should be looking for elemental seriousness. And you, 20 years ago, you were counting the fames, ten years ago counting the horses, now you're counting the peaks I climbed to. That's how you bring this assembly down to the level you can only function on. I disagree with your idea, I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Not everything is allowed. It's allowed for criticism. I find it absolutely irresponsible, and you mean it, all of what seems to be the last few months in connection with the government's reconstruction, the assembly's calling, and we don't know when it's going to continue. The Prime Minister who says Friday - I'm going 26, it has to be over by 26, and then it doesn't have to be over, so the government's session on Sunday morning. In the end, we get some kind of referendum that we need to plead on. We can't humiliate ourselves if you're going to humiliate yourself. The sentences -- constantly and effectively we in the ministry followed the government's work, so we noticed that there were some problems with the deficit. Do you want me to scratch you? And you and the one the government sent here, to see what your point of shooting is, to remind you of your nicknames, your history, your family? I won't do it because I've never done it. That's why we're different from you. This debate will be decent to the extent that those who today have a crucial impact on politics in Serbia are competent. Don't expect us not to observe what you're doing with the earth, because this is where we live.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21938	Of course criticism is allowed and will be allowed and we will have the opportunity to always bring it out, because there are much more criticisms in this country, as I see it, both in the Assembly and in the media, than it has ever been before. That's good, that's totally positive. I hope here, as far as nicknames are concerned, as far as the past and everything else is concerned, we won't be dealing with it, as many might be told. After all, maybe we can arrange a session once and let it be said. As for the family, I hope no one's family will ever be mentioned, because it's something that's truly humanly unacceptable. I never mentioned family members to anyone, nor was I going to mention them. It's not in the spirit of polite behavior. If we have something to say to each other, our family members are not obliged to suffer the fact that we are public figures. Mr. Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21939	Mr. President, the Rules of Procedure, Rule 107, have been injured. Permanent and constant threat - we'll mention family members, we'll tell you about history, we'll mention what. It is not a speech that needs and deserves the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if it's a relapse or whether it's behavior inherited from multiple stays on Schiller Street in some period that's long since been behind us. However, we must not observe or look at what has happened in the past, and there has been water spills, and there has been microphone pulls. We can't look selectively. We cannot help but remember the Bodrum vote and the Athens vote, which was much more dangerous for the parliamentary life and for the life of a country. On the other hand, I can't accept the fact or the accusation that, for God's sake, this government of the Republic of Serbia has amnesty, I don't know how many criminals are surrounded by criminals. I would remind whoever said that when he was sitting in this parliament, the first law of 2001 to be passed in parliament with the new government, after the December elections, was precisely the Law on Amnesty, which was much more liberal than the Law on Amnesty adopted by this parliament and this Government of the Republic of Serbia. As for the environment of criminals, don't, please, just tell us about the environment of criminals, when the birds on the branch know who they are, when and how and how they hang out with them. What was put here, I appreciate it, and I never mentioned privately, and it doesn't take family or children to suffer because of what we do here, but to say a sentence – while I earn, I have the right and to spend, it's true, but how, for God's sake, from the salary of 110,000 dinars to pay the helio, as it is already called, 80,000 euros. (President: Time, Mr. Granny. ) I can't explain it, explain it to the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21940	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21941	Mr. President, unfortunately, I have to realize that you are the most responsible for the situation we are currently in and for this situation in parliament, in which we apparently had six months of preparation to list who was wintering, flying and how much he paid for his vacation and wintering. Minister Selakovic came here today to present to you the amendments to the Government Act, and in fact the whole preparation was that, in some ways, he tried to discipline the opposition, to show you that he was very informed and knows who he was, where and when he was, and even knows those six months in 2003 whether they were horrible, even though he was, if I'm not mistaken, 18, 19 years old. At that time we were on the same line, but on the opposite side. And today we're on the same line, but on the opposite side, and what was in those six months, don't let God happen now, probably the same would happen again. I think when someone talks about that time, they must first respect the sacrifice that happened at the time. And you, Mr. President, can't say that you let a dialogue be conducted here as much as you want, because this is parliament. We've been elected by citizens, you're only the first among equals here, and you have to warn, first of all, the minister who caused all these replicas, and then those who count summers and winters, are reminded in 2001, are reminded of various events practically in the first decade of the last century. This is where the shoes flew a few years ago to the speakers on that side. What are you talking about today? The fact that you've changed physically, it's no mental change. What you're saying is that you don't have enough support in the tabloids, Mr. Stefanovic, I don't really know which newspaper you're reading. First of all, I ask that you honor the work of those who came here to represent the interest of the majority. If you can't do it, then step back and hand it over to someone else to run today's congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21942	Mr. Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21943	Again, Mr Stefanovic, you have injured a member of Rules of Procedure 27. You allow your party colleagues to tell the truth. They, truth be told, only know they are, but it is your obligation, Mr Stefanovic, while you are the President of the Assembly, to take care of the duties of MPs, not your party's need that in the same way that politics has led for 20 years, that it is doing so today. Do you really think there is another nonsense or lie that you can tell about me or anyone from my party or from the DS that will feed the hungry in Serbia, hire those who are jobless, allow the sick to be treated. Doesn't make barbers a politician's handkerchief? What's 80,000 euros, what's not eight million, what's eight hundred? Is that all because you can't climb Avala? Is there any other way to treat your frustrations? To say all the honors you've come to the world's hardest top, you've come to your job, so you've taken the Serbian flag there, they've made a movie, and they haven't said that Serbs are vandals, but that they're a wonderful people, they respect you on the other side of the world. Is that hard to say? You will lose the prominence of your support. It's hard, it's tight. You came to power, and you don't know what to do with it. You've changed, you've dressed up, you've taken some, it's not enough, you'd like more, so now you have to reconstruct that power. You let your army out of prison. Don't you get that? You see on the Security Committee, there's Nenad Milic. You are asking the city's SUP data, 80% of Belgrade's crimes since January 1st, have been carried out by those you let go of. They, in order to defend Kosovo in the spells of Segedin, are silent here. The same ones that burned Belgrade four years ago led you. There's no compromise on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21944	According to the Rules of Procedure, Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21945	Thank you, Mr. President. I must point out, Mr. President of the Assembly, that I would not now say to my dear colleague, that you have violated article 108, since you have not delivered a warning to the People's Parliament or to the People's MPs, but here I am going to tell the MP who in a brutal way violates the dignity of the National Assembly. I suppose that each of us has its own style, has its own mental range and ethical range, and that's fine, but it obliges us as MPs to come in relatively decent condition and to be able, therefore, to rationalize our thoughts and to be balanced in performance. This would suggest that we send a picture to young people, especially young people, but also to others in this House that we come in decent hours. So I would suggest that we see if we can do that, I ask you, let's see who is today and in general in the session of the Assembly under the fact of alcohol or any other opiates that disturb the balance of appearances and send a very bad picture from this congregation. This way you cannot work in the congregation. So you absolutely can't work in the Assembly because there's not enough, because there's no way to respond to irrationality and insolence that may not even be a part of someone's personality, which I want to believe deeply. Let's check it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21946	Replica. The word is Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21947	And the replica, but also the violation of Rules 103, 104, 105, is forbidden to address the MP directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21948	Please identify whether the breach of Rules of Procedure and Replication is?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21949	Replica, that's why I'm going to call on a much nicer mountain and it's called Goc, I was there a dozen, 12 days ago with friends and it's much more pleasant than in the Himalayas, much less costing, and I'm very happy to be there again. As for the presentation of the previous speaker, I think it's a lot of hypocrisy because it can't be on one side and that's what bothers me. Everyone can climb from their own money and spend it any way they want and whatever they want, whether it's expensive wine or diving around Hvar, or climbing mountains, there's absolutely no problem on my side who's going to work. But it can't be on one side of the salary, and this is a crucial question I've asked, and I can't answer that question, that from the salary of 110,000 dinars here in parliament to pay such bahanals. That's the question, and then for God's sake, he's worried about people who are going to be treated in Serbia, who are going to send their kids to school. A lot of questions have been asked here and a lot of questions are being asked here, and there's no alternative. It's said -- we talked about what you're doing now, we talked about it 20 years ago, and I ask you why you didn't apply when you were able to apply power in different aggregate states in Serbia for 20 years. Why didn't you apply that? Why are you now honoring this government of the Republic of Serbia for a great international, never greater and more concrete support from the world? What does she deserve? Didn't they in this House spend a year ago saying that we would be in a blockade, that there would be no pensions, that there would be no wages, that there would be nothing. What now? Based on what's changed now. I don't have a problem, climb up wherever you want, but explain to the citizens that out of 1,000 euros, monthly wages are made by such bahanalia of several tens of thousands of euros.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21950	Mr. Korach, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21951	I'm advertising Article 107, I meant dignity. Of course, we are all who we are and cannot be different and speak in harmony with what we think we should speak in the congregation. I must say, at least this assembly meeting of the Assembly did not have a debate that absolutely dominates those arguments that are sometimes called Latin ad-hominem, regarding the man himself, what he is concerned about. After such a debate or such statements, there is no fundamental debate on the issues that a person presents. That's what I want to warn you. This will make it easy to go into more insults, even more insults, and there is no end to it. This will create an atmosphere where it will be impossible to work. You can take it all the way with what the MP says and the wrong and the right, you can argue, you can make counter arguments, but when you start talking about him as a human, there's no room for rational discussion anymore. If he starts to suggest that someone's been drugged, that he's in an alcoholic state, what can that person after that answer to you? I wanted to tell Minister Selakovic more. Indeed, Mr. Minister, no matter what harsh words there have been in relation to what you've been saying is always somehow expected from a representative of the government, and in this case you're a representative of the government, to show a little bit more tolerance than that. The opposition's job is to criticise the government, it's simply her duty and it's an integral part of democracy. I was in the position where you are, and I also heard a lot harder words on my account and to tell you quite frankly, there are stenograms and you can make sure I never responded in that way. It's simple, the opposition attacks, she criticises, and yours is to show one greater measure of tolerance. I hope you don't mind me saying this, because I belong among the oldest Members of Parliament and I have an almost longest internship. Now, when the debates on personalities begin, then believe me, this parliament will come into a situation that today will end with some serious incident as it has begun. Stand on it, flaunt once more with what the man said, not with what you think he is or in what state he is in or what kind of property he is in. The debate has no end, especially in Serbia, where thanks to the tabloids and the structure of society, everyone thinks they know everything about everyone, and most often they know all the wrong things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21952	According to the Rules of Procedure, Borislav Stefanovic, then Bojan Djuric, then Judita Popovic, and Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21953	Mr. President, 106, 107, 108, because I think it's been here for an hour we've been seeing one transparent, poorly-covered, camouflaged urge of the ruling party to completely derail the subject of what we are here for today, that's what Serbian citizens should know. Why am I saying that? Because this controversy was initiated by Minister Selakovic. You didn't react, you let the minister threaten the MPs, that he's saying things that are supposed to be about the personality of those who criticized him. You let it be done the most ground floor way. I think you've made a big mistake here, and that led to this debate that no one wants. We've come to discuss amendments to the Ministry Act and look what we're talking about today - the experiences of young advances, their political opponents, how much can anyone drink and on what mountain to climb? That's what you tell the citizens of Serbia that your strength, your vision, your mayonnaise, your ethics. You say - we have to give the young ones an example. And to run that test, I'm not sure you'd have a quorum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21954	As President of Parliament, I disagree with you. Of course, you'll have the right to speak out on the day of the vote. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21955	Honestly, Mr. Stefanovic, I expected that after what Professor Korac said, I am sure that you understood for yourself, without any ambition to defend the parliamentary group he belongs to, I realized that he also spoke as vice president of parliament, that you would then calm this debate. You are now in violation of Article 27 again, or refusing to bring this down in reasonable terms. We can't discuss personal matters here. Mr Babić, i.e., I will tell you that I would not speak directly to Mr Babić – I look forward to Mr Babić being on Goc, and I would look forward to having been at any other point in this world, even if he was from public funds, and not from private ones. If we talk about something in parliament, if we talk today, we can possibly talk about who's traveling to the state's expense. If the proposals are already being made, I suggest that those data be published, so you will see that LDP and our MPs have at least these travels. I assume you, Mr. Stefanovic, have the most. I don't blame you, you're the President of Parliament, I suppose you'll end up seeing some public benefit from the cost of taxpayers and we could discuss it here. But to discuss who travels in his spare time, for his money, is really inadmissible. It is particularly unacceptable for the ruling majority, who holds all the instruments of government in this country. That is why I expect first and foremost the MPs of your coalition to advise such a thing, especially when speaking in parliament. I didn't get mad at Mr. Babic when he said in the paper that I might be missing oxygen from heights. But this is still a parliament. It's our turn to speak a different language.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21956	Unfortunately, after the presentation of Professor Korac, no MP from the ruling coalition spoke. All registered for the word are opposition, according to the Rules of Procedure. I don't have a chance to influence whether or not I'm going to give someone my word in the Rules of Procedure. After Professor Korac, I expected everyone else to understand exactly what he said, but unfortunately, my expectations didn't come true. You can ask the assembly service for expenses, not even in the top third of the MPs, and compared to the previous presidents of the Assembly I am convincingly below, significantly below costs, below each of these presidents of the Assembly. So you can look, give you all the expenses for every trip I've had, whether it was paid by the host country or paid by the Assembly, so I'm way below. I asked myself to look at it, to see it, so you can ask for it from the congregation service. According to the Rules of Procedure, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21957	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a debate has been launched on this bill, without the previous committees having discussed, neither the Committee on Economic Affairs nor the Committee on Finance. You've allowed and advertised Articles 106 and 107 and 27 of the debate to go completely in some crazy direction. Why is that, Mr. President? Do you allow fogging, replacing the thesis, by allowing yourself to be openly offended and threatened by the LDP MPs of the ruling coalition and the minister even, do you really want to hide something? Are you allowing some personal frustrations to explode here in parliament, by insulting certain MPs from the opposition, are you really hiding something, Mr. President? Something to tell you, we weren't afraid of the 1990s of the Duke, of the Chetniks, of all those who came to our heads, led to this position of this country, and we're not afraid now, as we have then defeated all the Chetniks and all the dukes and all the national rights fighters and the national issues behind which they were hiding, so we will win again, Mr. President. We cannot be intimidated by any member of the ruling coalition, nor by the minister of justice and by the state administration. If you allow him to treat this way as he has shown MPs, that is your problem, and that is a great minus for the position that you currently have in this House. I remind you once again, we will not withdraw from unargued criticism and what we have heard so far, it was not criticism, there were no arguments, Mr. President, it was chatter.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21958	Unfortunately, here's what you continue to talk about, and in the last sentence you cast everything you said in the first part. So these terms totally devalue everything you said in the first part. In any case, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government gave its opinion, and they are responsible under the Rules of Procedure for discussing this law, the Rules of Procedure which did not bring this ruling majority, the Rules of Procedure for which I did not vote, and the Rules of Procedure have all been done in the way that should be done and you have received those opinions before the start of the debate. According to the Rules of Procedure, Jelena Trivan.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21959	Dear President, I did not answer to argue further, but to say that here each of us has some responsibility and do not set up an orderly by saying, here, the ruling majority's MPs are no longer answering for the word, and that's how we're going to adjudicate everything that's been said and done here. You have a Rules of Procedure before you, and you are obliged and obliged to use it, to warn and punish those who violate the order of the meeting, to join in the messengers who come in a sober and courteous state, and to insult me in the way that today's debate has been conducted, and that you have not given any warning to anyone. I don't want us all to be equal, I don't want us to continue the session that way, by getting a call from the Central SMS and stopping answering the word, but by making warnings to those who are misbehaving. In doing so, I say to you that out of all that is inappropriate, of the inquisition, of calling for material status, property, retirement, drunkenness, I find it the most inadequacy, violation of the Constitution and the law, and that you were obliged to warn Minister Selakovic that he cannot threaten with criminal charges against MPs and thus restricts the freedom of speech that has been guaranteed, at least in this House, if not in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21960	According to the Rules of Procedure, Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21961	I'm sorry, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, but I answered the replica of what the president of the DS parliamentary group said, but here's Mrs. Trivan, too, so let me just answer, even though I was hoping we could get back to normal. They don't call us from headquarters, maybe they call you, we mostly make deals, we have one normal relationship, we're mostly all rational people, and we know that we're thinking with our own head, and if we need to ask ourselves something, because I don't know how you imagine a central, like some mystical, I don't know what's central to you, you have to explain it to me? If it's a contact with people from the party, yes, we'll be in touch, exchange opinions, thank you for asking. I just wanted apropo my initiative, I think it should be a formal initiative and I totally agree with Mr. Borko Stefanovic, because he said we wouldn't have a quorum, I suppose, alluding to the MPs of the ruling parties, that's where I fully agree with you. Every one of our MPs who doesn't pass that day's test of decency, that even if he doesn't come under opiates or in alcoholised condition, he shouldn't be a member of this House. I absolutely agree, and I think of it the same way I think of other MPs, as well as the MPs of my party, and I'm going to stand up for it, because I think we owe so much to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21962	Sign up for a word. Mr. Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21963	Mr. President, you've allowed the Minister of Justice to break the Law on the Assembly. Namely, Article 38. The Law on the Assembly has very clearly defined the rights of MPs. To be clear, you can imagine how worried I am about Mr. Selakovic's threats or anyone from your party. You're not even a shadow of those Taliban from Pakistan, and we didn't pay much attention to them either. There is something else that is very important to Mr. Stefanovic, and because of that, of course, he tried to explain to you also the vice president of the assembly, Korać, I will not spend too much time trying to be more detailed in this, but we will never agree to your ambition that all those who are not part of your coalition are silenced by threats or criminalisation. For the past 20 years I've been in politics, and much more serious politicians have sooner or later reached out for the same kind of argument when they've run out of politics. I find it offensive that your party colleague here lists as some new standard needed to define relations in the Assembly. You know, Mrs Joksimovic, Vojislav Seselj never drank, and he despised alcohol, so it didn't make your common policy much more normal. I will ask LDP MPs to leave the mountains to me, and I will ask them to use every second that we have of those 13 minutes that exist to keep us from talking, to fully expose both the SNS, and the coalition of the SPS and the SNS that has subordinated everything to themselves, to their need to live some unrealistic, eager life with which they have been reckoning for the past 20 years. We will not be able to compromise on this, Nni, about the idea of leading us to Europe, by taking Europe away from us here in terms of every European value, and your desire that only SNS and those who remain silent exist.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21964	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21965	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm referring to Articles 106 and 107. The Rules of Procedure, which speak first, can only speak of the agenda point and 107th dignity of the National Assembly. I must warn Mr. President that Mr. Sutanovac, and Mr. Jovanovic, have offended us terribly when Mr. Sutanovac said that we have changed our physical appearance, but that we have not changed mentally. That's a terrible insult. I'm shocked, I'm just shocked. The former defence minister, while serving as minister, quoted one sentence, during the acquisition of the mobile system of radio relay links via "Yugochemia", damaged Serbia's 200m-euro budget in exchange for the 2011 State Auditor's report. The same Mr Sutanovac, while serving as defence minister, paid for 2010 to upgrade software for VMA 850,000 euros, is as much as four times the cost of the computer program when it was purchased, and declared military secrecy, it has not been repaired until today. Report by the State Auditor for 2013, published by all day presses on 13 February 2013. For years, page four. As for the destruction of Serbia, the insult and dignity of this assembly, I do not want to answer, I say that I do not trust the MP who quoted "The Republic of Serbia was created at the Srebrenicagenocide on ethnic cleansing, inevitable in Europe, after World War II", finished the quote on June 23rd 2012. The same gentleman, LDP president, said on TV Novi Sad, quote "the republican government treats Vojvodina and is still treated in a corrupt way, that this is why it should give Vojvodina full sovereignty is recognised as an independent country" finished quote on October 26, 2012, page 39. (President: Time. Mr. President, if they're offended by people like this, then it's really too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21966	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word has the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21967	A member of 107 and one 107a was injured, or perhaps in the third position should be placed, that MPs in the National Assembly do not exceed at least 10 decibels of noise in the Assembly, because I hear well, so that those who shout think that a position should be entered in Article 107. Therefore, SNS MPs have not caused anything to this controversy led by the critics. The SNS and SNS MPs love the constructive criticism that brings something, what you criticise, and you are in great trouble when it comes to Serbia's MUP and the prosecution. I don't know where you got that moral right, and there's a folk who says, "Keep the thief, and the thief here steals it." You have no right to do so, neither this Rules of Procedure nor any law gives you, not even human, moral, the right to criticise, not criticise, not criticise, but criticise, and that is a big difference from constructive criticism. So you don't have gentlemen's rights. Where did you get that power? You've ruined the country in the last 20 years, so we can't raise it in 10 years. Unfortunately for you, we will quickly establish order and this Serbia will progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21968	According to the Rules of Procedure, Nikola Tulimirovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21969	Thank you. I want to draw attention, I believe there are certain habits here that last a long time, but I want to draw attention to that we are one big board of some private company, we would all get fired by now because nothing is happening here, we've been wasting our time here for almost two hours, and I am, of course, talking to the Rules of Procedure, I don't want to be very smart, I was really hoping, only Mr. Koraq said something that I had to agree with. It would be wonderful to put aside everything that's been said so far to freeze those talks for the halls, if they have to continue there, and we have to become efficient here. Minister Selakovic said it was one law, and you said the president was reduced to reading for an hour. I read it, really in 15 minutes, really, and let's get to the bottom of it, let's say everything there is to know about the law and not talk about it anymore. You have to stop when someone's looking for a replica, and it's not mentioned, you can't give him a word. When someone turns to the rules of procedure and not complains about the functioning of the Assembly but talks about other mountains and other things, which are truly tragic, I don't know, I don't care what Cedomir Jovanovic does privately, I'm curious that his party doesn't do good things politically, which I don't care what she does privately. For anyone to do that, it means, let's talk about Serbia's policy and be effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21970	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21971	I wanted to replicate to Mr Jovanovic very briefly, and perhaps there is no need, in spirit, is it, this inviting fine appeal of fellow Members to return to the subject of reconstruction which is not a matter of running away from, on the contrary, that is the thing that should really be a good signal for the citizens of Serbia and the good news that ultimately responsibility is understood in a different way, so far from us running away. I just wanted to brief Mr. Jovanovic on who he is, and I see that my initiative, which was spontaneous and ad hoc, has caused some kind of unhappiness, seems to be in my parliamentary group and in all the parliamentary groups, but I will just because it is somehow even more, if I can support it further myself. You know what, I don't care what people do outside of working hours, I mean, I do time, and there are some obligations that are part of labour law, but also work obligations, I experience it, I don't see why it's so dramaticly understood, and you're even telling me about how Mr. Seselj never drank. You know, the right to tell you, you know him a lot better than I do, I've never met him in my life, but it's not about that at all, these worses if he acted like that and he wasn't under the fact of anything, you see how politically he ended up, what doesn't teach you? On the other hand, I mean, it's completely pointless now, the collective sigh in the congregation as -- oh, what did you say? You know, I mean, the initiative is good and we need to support it, let's see if we're all ready to respect our labour rights for which we get money from Serbian citizens. Of those 110 thousand, someone lives better, someone lives strangely, someone worse, and someone far beyond their capabilities, but that's legitimate as you say, everything can be proven, everything can be justified, but the relationship in the congregation has to be shown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21972	The breach of the Rules of Procedure, MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21973	Mr Stefanovic, you are in violation of Article 27 again. First of all, there's no need for your colleague to address me directly. I thought it was Anna Vintur, so that's why I did it, but I can see it's not. Mr. Stefanovic, I don't mind you applying Hasap here or any other Phytosanitary Standard that you think you should, but get your leader out of the one you said with the brandy. Don't let Nikolic roast my brandy and force it as a value to the entire society, and then here you subject us to the tests. As for your closeness with Seselj or not, you have his right and left hand next to you, so you can test the values of the criteria you suggest here. I personally don't mind, I just think you're insulting this assembly. I don't think there's any reason for that kind of behavior. You've had your own debate in this direction, and you're inferior on that basis. Try to apply the criteria you impose on us. Try to apply to your leaders. What are they doing? Where do they live? Who do they live with? What are their families doing? What are their friends doing? Do I have a family? They live off the minister's salary. How much longer should Vukic be a police officer in Serbia and be satisfied with the answers to these questions? Twenty years of political life criminalizing anyone who resists your destruction of the country. A man who sits on his side is right, and he says, "Wait! Is this all worth it? At first sight, yes, everything is pointless, but six months of the country's collapse over a sentence that the ministry has constantly and effectively monitored the state of the government, and then concluded that it must propose a division of the finance and economy ministry. It's an insult. Then we wouldn't need this testing. If we had gone over it, it would have been clear what this parliament has become. We don't want to be your accomplices, and that's why we resist.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21974	Right on line, MP Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21975	Mr. President, maybe I should really apologize. I am sure that certain MPs, who changed figuratively, have not changed mentally. They cannot listen to MPs in parliament, they say -- they don't trust them, but they trust the president who calls them Bosnians, for which the citizens of Republika Srpska have no understanding. I also want to tell you that this is the second or third time an attempt to insinuate from a man who is a doctor by profession and who still doesn't know that the Ministry of Defence or any ministry in the government or the Parliament doesn't affect the course. It has nothing to do with the course today, nor before, nor will it ever have, unless now someone in the government decides on what would be incompatible with what is law and what is governed by the Constitution. On the other hand, you continue to insist that there be chaos in this House. That's obviously the plan. We now have an intervention to do the alcotest. I invite you to go to the bar, see the man who opened this debate here, what he's doing there, and why he came out of the DOS in 2002. It's possible it's because of alcohol. It's very possible. His card's right there, I hear, because he's a forgetful man. Please, if we can't keep working on the Rules of Procedure, take a break of 10.15 minutes, those who are nervous about the bar to finish what they have at the bar, get back here and keep working. Serbia is awaiting this major reconstruction, which is being prepared for six months, divided by one to two, an increase in the number of ministries, no cuts in agencies, no cuts in excessive surpluses. Pensions and wages obviously go down to minus, belt tightening and everything. These are the topics that made us come to parliament today and we want to talk. Neither I nor my colleagues, all those who came here to represent the people, are interested in who's flying where, how much they spend on wardrobe, how much they spend on family. I want you all to fly as best you can and not be offended if someone else can do it better than you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21976	Right on line, MP Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21977	Thank you. I've never been personal in my speeches and in my performances, and especially I've never spoken directly. This time Mr. Jovanovic is right, because he spoke directly to me. I've been mixed up by a man with another person and that's nice. I see he's got a nice association. It's probably the result of something, too. On the other hand, this story about who lives on whom, how he lives, I thought that when I agreed to be a national MP, I had an obligation to all citizens in Serbia to talk about how I live because a personal example in public is always the best example. You don't expect that, I'm talking to all of us, any of us should hide the way we live and be perceived well in the public of Serbia by citizens, who are going to say that, yes, these are certainly better than us, they're much smarter, because they live better than us, and we're all incompetent, poor and stupid? I really don't think about Serbian citizens, and I like to be part of the public. I drive and I live normally, and maybe I wouldn't have to. Now you need someone who has abused all the public functions he has performed, in my confidence, and you can say otherwise, to justify myself for having some personal initiative as an MP and calling me someone inferior to what? I'll never be inferior to what you are, and I'm not particularly afraid of that kind of argument that should show economic domination. Are you some kind of financial elite of this country? Are you an intellectual elite? What elite are you? I was only an elite in college, believe me. Now I don't think of myself as an elite but as a citizen who should represent interests. As long as I think of my leaders, of Alexander Vukic as party president and of Tomislav Nikolic, who is the president of Serbia, who founded the party, although he is no longer in charge of it and if you think I will be a member then when I think they are like you, never. Thank you. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21978	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21979	The Honorable Chairman, using Article 27. Rules of Procedure, I'm really asking you to take a break, to bring this work of the Assembly into some normal phase. We are discussing a very important law today, even though you have announced it, and your MPs are doing everything possible to dissuade this debate by coming up from time to time insulting other MPs, saying beyond the subject, and we cannot talk about what you did in the previous year in the economy, in health, in school, in agriculture and in other topics that we wanted to discuss today. The DS deputies prepared for that. You're making this work impossible for us. If you continue and allow such obstruction of the work of the Assembly, we will consider you responsible, or we will think that you have arranged for today’s session to be a story about who can climb to or from what means. Dear Chairman, either use the powers of the Rules of Procedure and disable the debate beyond the subject or take a break or do something else, give someone else a chair to make this debate look like something. This doesn't make sense. The minister insults MPs, the MPs insult the MPs of the opposition, and we are not discussing today the draft law amending the Ministry Act. You've been preparing him for six months, and you won't let us, 59 minutes of DS has something to say about that law and you won't give it to us either. You gave us this law tonight. At eight o'clock, I got a call from the head of your office saying that this law is in the process.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21980	The word has a folk MP, Dr Slobodan Samardzic, on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21981	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, I will speak not according to the Rules of Procedure, but in order and order, and I would first like to thank Mr. Minister for his constructive presentation, and I mean it. Mr. Minister today has actually done one job with his boring bureaucratic exposure. He blew up a big balloon that had been blowing up for six months by the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, along with some assistance and that blown balloon is actually the best metaphor for what today, after receiving this bill and its exposure, means the government's reconstruction. It was one big balloon in which we were all to settle in, so today, thank God, there's little air to breathe, because Mr. Minister, with his really real exposure to the real bill of law and the real reconstruction of the government, completely reduced it to the level of reality and reality. I really thank you, it is indeed a constructive contribution to our discussion that should have taken place immediately after your presentation and after the presentation of my colleague Jovanovic, but we had this small break that should not prevent us from talking about the case itself. However, if that was the case, if a few months of government reconstruction has been spoken of as a historical act, if the last two months of that speech have grown and could no longer be lived from it, then don't expect the opposition in the Assembly to accept that scenario, that we are talking only about the law today, and not about the reconstruction of the government. Something like that, simply, is not possible as long as the opposition is an opposition and while we are here in charge of thinking about the real problems and the things that caused all the activities, including this bill, and not actually being so disciplined, so let's play by the script, how can I say, the ones who made the scenario for this event. At the very end of the line and your opening statement for this bill, and not this, to expose the Prime Minister, which at first thought would be better, turned out well. Imagine, the Prime Minister who was blowing a balloon, that he had to blow it out. That's not right. You'd better do it calmly, in fact. You've been strictly law-abiding. The law is written very carefully, very detailedly, about 12 minutes you should write it, and we 12 and a half to read it, or someone maybe less, who reads fast. So, for six months, we've had this really exciting law that we're supposed to break a spear about right now. But, of course, we're not breaking a spear around the law. We're not that crazy, are we? As presidents of the opposition in this assembly we will, at least I will talk about the law, of course touching and the law, about the matter itself. So, a very long process, where you're actually promising major historical changes, human change, structural changes, new reform requirements, etc., comes into the situation of making fast-track amendments to MPs and the sooner we do our job, to stick to the disciplined agenda, and then on Friday we'll talk about the reconstruction itself, if by Friday, please excuse me, there will be a proposal from the government at all. We, for the first time, really ever since governments have been established in Serbia, do not have the moment when we talk about the ministry law, an accurate review of the government's members. If you want, and that personal question isn't irrelevant, and you know best, not that it's not irrelevant, but that question is above all questions, and just because it's a question above all questions, you don't have a solution, because you can't have that terrible knot, something that Serbia is barely breathing about today, expecting an effect, expecting those names that will bring us out of the crisis to disintegrate. When it comes to the reconstruction of the government, you really had a reason to do it. In the opinion of the DSS, we thought it would be better to make elections, new elections, so when we think about it, and now let's put the movie back, because that thing takes five, six months, if we'd done it then, today we'd have a completely different government and a lot more legitimate. Whoever wins, in the end line I'll end up with that topic, I won't say everything now, you're a party that would absolutely take that over and that would be the problem. We wouldn't be dangling for months about one thing, about which today we only have this really dry equivalent, and that's this bill. This government worked for a year, and she had reason not only to reconstruct herself, but also to change in elections, or to remain the same, but to give people the opportunity to choose, because over the course of this year, she has failed on all fronts. She is, as I say, in full continuity with the previous government. I don't think at least some things the previous government would have ended as quickly and successfully as this one. Of course, to the detriment of Serbia. So we've been living four or five years in recession. These years, recession has also been the main feature of our economy. We, through this reconstruction, and especially in view of this law, do not have any indication of internal structural change and reform of Serbia's economy. If one ministry is divided into two and they both have the same powers that had one before, what's the point? So, spilling from hollow to empty. If we take the second mark of this economic system, when you are already changing the Business and Finance Act, Serbia is in one state much worse than it was a year ago, in a state that continues to make mistakes in continuity. Today she has a budget deficit greater than planned. We talked about budget rebalancing a month, a month and a half ago. So, budgeting, budget costs were completely irregular and we faced one such situation. Public debt is much higher than a year ago, public finances are much higher, in a mess than they were a year ago, the unemployment rate is growing. We can list many more of these indicators of a poor economic situation that required the government's reconstruction at least, and perhaps more than that, to call new elections. The only two things you've said to praise that you've successfully started them, it's getting a date for EU membership negotiations and fighting corruption. When it comes to first words, you did not get that date, to be clear, that you would not have to torture Serbs in northern Kosovo now to go to elections and to use all means at the border of illegality. In any case, that thing was successful under the allegations of success as expected by Brussels and Berlin. When we look at the state interest he is there in the second plan, it is working to fully surrender Kosovo and meet that condition in order to get that date, if that is the case at all. God forbid he won't be in December this year. When it comes to fighting corruption, it's another topic you've successfully started. She went on for a while quite quantitatively and campaigning successfully, until the matter reached the judicial system, to judges of various levels and courts, who showed that such a thing could not be done quickly. At least far slower than this arrest campaign was over a hundred people, etc. Corruption is the cancer of this system's wounds and you've dealt with it, but then you've faced the fact that the courts and the entire judicial system are too poor a minimum, poor capacity to withstand these trials, and even at the very beginning of their conduct, so we have a lot of people who are rightly released from custody and are now defending themselves from freedom. There have been various bullets on the line of the special court-state prosecutor's office or lower-level courts, so it's stuck too. That's the two things where you say you have a relative success, and all the other things have gone very badly. I therefore conclude that there was room for the government to be reconstructed, of course, in a different way than you did, and first of all, to make early elections. When it comes to the bill, you can actually see it, although you can see it from a lot of things, but when a man reads the bill carefully, you can see how much of the matter revolves around nothing, how much is one content, institutionally, how much is one empty process, walking in place. If you remember, since the Ministry Act remained more or less the same, with this only change in the replacement of one ministry in two ministries, if you remember, a year ago, when the government was established and the new Ministry Act was passed, we were then, the DSS and other members of the opposition in this parliament, saying that some things did not work. They don't function inherently, structurally, functionally, they can't work. Take, for example, the merger of incompatible in various ministries, such as the merger of the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government, so justice was attached to the state administration. The elemental thing is that both state and local self-government are part of the public administration of a state and that this is one subject, one part of the work of a ministry. You did it because you made the ministry in the image and opportunity of Mrs Kalanovic, who was engaged in regional development, it was the badge of the URS and local self-government, also one badge of the URS, and you combined those two things together. Why didn't you now that you've reconstructed that one intervention? Therefore, you, Mr. Minister, would not have with justice and state administration, but perhaps have with justice public administration and local self-government or have only justice. Then, indivisible things, such as energy and mining, are separated. Incompatible things are connected, such as internal and external trade and telecommunications. Here's a theme for reconstruction, at least in a minimal way. You kind of went off the rails and skipped it. By the way, when a member is read about the new Ministry of Economy, there is no mention of industrial policy. What's the ministry gonna do? Tourism, infrastructure, various other things are mentioned, but industrial policy does not exist in this country. She was completely out of the agenda four, five years ago. Why is that now? What are we going to invest in? In what the foreign partner wants, getting our subsidies, etc., which was done before and what is done now. There are still inherent problems, where it appears that you didn't really want to create any normal, serious government reconstruction at all. Here, and these few illustrations, I think they're good enough to say that it's a surrogate theme, that you're actually one subject that you've talked about emptying out of every content and making it the simplest political mantra you've ever placed through the media in the Serbian public. I'm not going to blame and criticize the media right now, but that is one system, one component, if I may put it that way, so power and the media. The media was driving people crazy with some promises, and when we look at the law and look at your exposure, and even if you want this break that we had with the circumstances, we see that it's not a serious undertaking. For all the time, I have to stress that, especially in the last two months, practically from Vidovdan, ever since you realized that you didn't get a date, you raised this topic to pedestal, for all of that time, the government has been seriously working on only one thing seriously and approachably, and this is a question of Kosovo and Metohija, a question of meeting the conditions set by Berlin and Brussels to get that date, which would start talks that would take an ad infinitum, as we see in many of the conditions set in the very structure of those chapters. I mean, first of all, Chapter 35. There the government was very active, very engaged, very approachable. Every day it went to Kosovo or people came here to convince themselves to go to those November 3rd elections, which were actually foreseen by the Belgrade-Pristina agreement and the implementation plan, that the institutions to which the state of Serbia has managed so far and which were part of Serbia's institutional system, from local self-government to many functional sectors, would move that policy into the jurisdiction of Pristina and the government of Hashim Thaci. You worked here with a full pair, precisely because that job was partially covered up and partly and public. You had a theme that filled out media and audio media and electronic media, which is the reconstruction of the government. That's what we have to say, because we've been in the last two months of the victim of one really, so let's say, fake politics, which wasn't completely spinning in the circle, but that job that was in charge to supposedly move forward, I don't know where and I don't know what, so it's going to start doing. Also, and that should not be forgotten, during the past few months we have witnessed a very enhanced executive activism towards Serbia's constitutional judiciary, precisely because it was your main topic. During all this time, practically since December of last year, until today, you have put political pressure on the Constitutional Court not to do its job, not to carry out an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of those agreements that were once accepted by the previous government, so you have brought in yet another agreement and another plan, so you have also continued to put your fears on the Constitutional Court, which does not justify the Constitutional Court for not doing its job. So there was another setback, not only did we not implement the reform of the economic system, but the legal and political system also brought into a dangerous area of witness to the executive government, so the principle of rule of law is pushed aside and the Constitutional Court is silent about the affairs in which it had to be active. This government reconstruction is a surrogate for one right and possible government reconstruction, and above all it is a surrogate for non-organising temporary elections. One government that had so many failures in its operation in the last year had to act in such a way as to, even one that had less, seek some sort of public mood check against its policy. Instead, we had on one side a story about reconstruction, and on the other hand a threat that the ruling party would hold elections if things didn't work out properly. That threat was a threat to an empty rifle. It's about the next one. The topic of early elections in Serbia is one of the few topics that is not in this government's disposition. She doesn't decide that. Her job is actually to do or to help make some other choices. These are elections in Kosovo and Metohija, local elections, primarily in the four municipalities and thus to execute the orders of Western countries representing some unwritten constitution of the government. I've been talking about repealing or destroying the rule of law, and that's what it is when we're not running internal policies, but through external pressures, which is actually the only active thing in this government in recent years, specifically for these last year and the last months. That's where it got worked, not what it was supposed to be. The ruling party is constantly going public with some polls, otherwise very suspicious agencies, about having a sufficient number of percentages of support so that it can hold elections and that it may be able to establish the government on its own. If so, then let the election be done. Then we'll have at least a simpler and simpler government than this coalition, numerous, etc., although this one was simplified by the fact that the URS came out of it. So let's do it instead of this reconstruction, so let's see if that's really true. I'm sure that's not the case, but not only because I'm sure it's not because I don't believe in agencies that work for money, agencies that were in the same way two years ago finging the results of their choices, giving wind to the back of that ruling party or the coalition at the time, doing their same job today or, if we take a measure of local elections where less than 50% usually comes out, somewhere less than 40%, there are conclusions about pre-termination. If that's the case, here's the choice. Let's try to do this job, and see how the next government, with greater legitimacy, does it. I'm sure this ruling party would love to do it, but she can't do it. (President: Time. ) It simply doesn't have enough, I will immediately finish, the internal state capacity to do so, precisely because it's not her question, it's her foreign question. At last, only one sentence, the DSS will of course not support this bill, but will not table any amendments. We believe that you have devalued the subject of reconstruction to that extent and thrown it into, so to speak, pragmatic, political mud, that no discussion, positive, constructive, or aid over the amendment in that matter would contribute. We will continue to criticise the government as we have so far.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21982	The word is Bojan Kostresh.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21983	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, LSV will not vote in favour of the amendment law and the amendments of the Ministry Act for the simple reason why we do not see that this law and the subsequent reconstruction of the government that will come under this law will help citizens and citizens of Serbia live better and better than they do today. In these years, somewhere at the end of July this government was formed, this newly formed government has made great commitments for itself and made great promises, of which, unfortunately, I have not noticed that something has happened, nor can I say that there have been any significant shifts in living standards, when it comes to salaries, when it comes to pensions, when it comes to increasing employment, the development of economy. Finally, a few months after the formation of the government, if I have noticed correctly, talks on the reconstruction of the government or the new elections are starting sometime in April of the month. How many months has it been? From the end of July to early April, it was eight, nine months to realize that something was wrong and that the main topic would be whether there would be new elections or not, whether there would be a government reconstruction or not and who would be in that reconstructed government or not. From April to this day, I have not noticed any improvement in these three points I spoke of, I have not noticed that people in Zrenjanin, neither in Banat, nor in Vojvodina, nor in all of Serbia live better. Since April, we have been discussing what Serbia will look like, what the new government of the Republic of Serbia will look like. Then we get to the point that one party has become excess in this government and the man who ran the financials and the economy becomes excess. It becomes such a surplus that it is immediately appointed to a new post by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What did you gentlemen expect by making a new government? I won't speak at all because a man isn't here and I don't want to talk about people leaving, but what you expected from a man who's been acting since 2000 on the financials of this country or on the economy of this country. What did you expect him to do differently than what he did? How come he was good for you a year ago and it's not good today? The biggest change is the division of this ministry into two. Okay. What are we going to do about it? Are we going to get bigger salaries now, bigger pensions, a better standard? Are we going to live better or is this government reconstruction, as someone has already said, buying time until we get into a situation so that we can discuss the extraordinary parliamentary elections and that we can, and that we can't go into conflict, or that you can, without conflicting with the international community, call elections and end your internal account? Is this bill on amendments to the Ministry Act going to solve some of the problems I want to talk to you about now? The power's up, the gas's up. How are people gonna heat up? Is this the law after which we have a government reconstruction, will this law allow people to pay for that electricity, to pay for that gas? Will we be in a situation where, for example, this reconstructed government that has managed to release many criminals into the street by law on amnesty, will this reconstructed government, apparently, with the prime minister and interior minister, be able to ensure the safety of Serbian citizens and citizens? When LSV MPs persistently and consistently speak of the need for the Vojvodina administration of police, which does not mean parallel police forces, it means that, in accordance with the existing and applicable law, the Minister of Interior can propose a reorganisation of the Ministry of Interior and thus form a new police administration. This police administration in Vojvodina may be able to address the situation in which people are present today, which is that more and more places are being organised by some kind of duty, a night internship, and I'm not going to qualify them at all, to prevent harvesting, crops, to prevent home theft, to prevent the theft of salasses, to prevent kidnapping. How many times we talked about the town of Novi Sad, as the second largest city in the Republic of Serbia and the capital of the AP Vojvodina, having no secretaries, or police chiefs. If that's not in Belgrade's interest, then let's make a police administration that will deal with it. Three hundred cops are missing in Novi Sad, and Novi Sad has become like Chicago, a little bit, a little shot. Will this reconstruction of the Government, or the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, be resolved? I'm afraid not. In this new government, we have one ministry, as well as the previous one and several previous times, we have the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Information. We don't know who's gonna be the minister yet, but that man has to be a superman or at least Nikola Tesla, because wherever he goes, he's gonna have problems. The problems in culture have never been greater. The dissatisfaction of cultural people has never been greater. On the other hand, we have information, where, after the cancellation of the TV subscription, RTS and TV are in front of bankruptcy. How can a man solve problems in culture and information problems? Is it even important, I'm going to talk about tv, is it even important that there is a regional public service that, by the way, informs citizens and citizens of Vojvodina in ten languages, which among other things drives topics that are not triggered by other media, does such a service need to be shut down? We should be proud to have such a service in the state of Serbia and to try on the basis of building new services and doing something that will be able to be proud of the discipline of this country. So I go from ministry to ministry, I could ask the question and ask -- is this newly reconstructed government going to solve at least one of these problems that we're talking about and whether what's been announced since April of the month can be reduced to a law that, as the president says, can be read in 15 minutes? You didn't say, I apologize, Mr. President. Someone said you could read it in 15 minutes. Is that, from April to today, everything can fit on so much paper that it can be read in 15 minutes? Whether this reshuffle of the government is actually this law, buying time to early parliamentary elections, means, we'll drop by November, and we'll see in December if our coalition partners don't listen to you, and then we'll go to new elections. So that's all the questions that are very important. Whether this law and this government reconstruction will solve the problem in agriculture. From 2000 to today, I have managed to count only at the republican level, not to mention federal levels, fourteen persons who have served as Minister of Agriculture. So, in 23 years, 14 people. Calculate how average it was at the office of the Minister of Agriculture. No one was on average for two years. This new person, who we know at this point will be a professional person, we don't know her name, how can she solve the problem? Do we have the right to criticise and be angry with former agriculture ministers who have failed to do anything? I'd like someone to show me how in a year or two can change the system and make a score? The current situation in agriculture is such that, for example, on Day 31. Eight. In 2012, wheat was between 22 and 24 dinars and 23. Eight. In 2013, there are 16 dinars, while on the market in Hungary is 18.9 dinars. The corn 28.14 dinars versus 13.5 dinars, it's the same period. Soy 75.60 versus 61.56 dinars and sunflower first trading 54 dinars and today first trading 27 dinars. Is that the result this government wants to deliver to us? And what government reconstruction, and how can we produce the result that we will be able to support? There's one part, and I'm going to end up, so I don't keep being negative and critical, there's one part, gentlemen from the ruling coalition, where we're going to support you. We will support you every time you work on further European integration, because it's a Social Democratic League programme for 23 years. We will support you to continue your policy towards Kosovo today, because it is a policy supported and advocated by the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina. And we will support you every time this government does its legislative proposals in the direction of improving relations in the region, because these relations in the region have to be repaired, regardless of how the League of Social Democrats has never broken down, some others have corrupted them, the League will support any government activity that these jobs are done and that this goes faster and more effectively than it has ever been. This government has a minister for regional administration and local self-government. Under this law on amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, the ministry will again remain. I sincerely hope that this ministry will not be a beating to the AP Vojvodina administration and that this ministry will not be a tool that will again and again organise some new "Jogurt Revolution" from Banovina, and I sincerely hope that this ministry will serve and help the AP Vojvodina not to be an underdeveloped region. If it works that way, we'll back you up. The Social Democrats League MPs of Vojvodina have not submitted amendments to this law because we believe it makes no sense. First, no Social Democrats League amendment has been adopted so far, although I believe there have been good ones. Secondly, because this whole organized story about reconstruction is actually designed on the subject, as the people would say – hold the water until the masters leave. I would love to see, when the majority of the assembly, and I am convinced that this will happen, adopt this law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, and when we get that honor to get the names and biographies of ministers, I hope it won't be through the Internet 17 minutes before the assembly starts, to discuss it and see if that government will give any results? We in LSV sincerely doubt that, and that is why we have not submitted amendments, and therefore we will not vote for amendments and additions to this law, nor will we vote for the reconstruction of the government when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21984	The word is Mr. Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21985	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, whatever the formal session is about not discussing the government's reconstruction, but about the Ministry Act and the Government Act, these two things cannot be separated. To be honest, I have been in the congregation for a long time, and I don't remember whether a government was elected or reconstructed, and at the same time it wasn't a law we're talking about today or the laws we're talking about today. That's not a good sign. It's not a good sign because I don't see why you wouldn't go out at the same time with your candidates for ministers, government members and the Ministry Act. Because the Ministry Act is also the way executive authority will be established, how many ministries there will be, how many members of the government will be. A government law that speaks of how responsibilities are set up and how the government actually operates is part of a programme. You're changing the Ministry Act because you think the government should function differently than it has functioned so far. The only thing that's clear is that you've made a decision and that you've concluded that the way the Ministry of Finance and Industry functioned is not good. That is why I assume that Mr Dinkic will no longer be in the government, nor the ministers who were with him, but I do not understand whether you asked these ministers, or candidates for the economy, whether they agree with what you are proposing here. Mr. Krstic, I assume he said something about this thing that he thinks it's better to be the Ministry of Finance in particular, and the Ministry of Economy separately. But since we don't know who the Minister of Economy is, I don't know how these candidates react to it. Of course, I'm kidding a little bit, but the thing is essentially very important and serious. We'll see by the end of this week all future members of the government and we'll see what the government's programme is going to be, because it's essential and important that we see what a deviance you're going to make towards the current economic policy. What an industrial policy it will be. Whether support will remain essential primarily for foreign investors with very significant money per job or some other idea has emerged. That's what worries me. I'm worried we don't see a new idea. Doesn't mean she's gone. We haven't heard from her by now. How the government thinks it's leading the economy into the future. I'll talk about numbers when the time comes, when there's an exposé here, I guess there's going to be a Prime Minister and all the candidates for members of the government, and about the unemployment rate, and about the deficits and all the other important things. But when you entered here after the Ministry Act that you do not have members of the government, it is clear that you are not ready at this time with the citizens of Serbia to share your intentions on how you will run the economy of Serbia. It is bad, and it makes it completely impossible for a discussion to open, at least as far as the MP group is concerned, for Serbia to be helped by such a government intention. What's good is that you haven't decided to form a European Affairs Ministry, so I don't think that would be harmful, but it's a good thing that you gave up on the idea that the minister who led that portfolio would also be a negotiator. I was honestly worried about this idea being debated for a few weeks during this month. It's a good thing you gave it up, but it's not a good thing there's no negotiator. It is not good because a year ago, when the government was formed, Serbia's EU accession was put as a priority to the government, which is of course an extraordinary thing. But when you came out at the end of July last year, when Mr. Dacic came out with such an exposé, then I was absolutely convinced that in the next few months, everyone who makes up the government, the prime minister and the SNS who is the largest member of the government, would have a clear idea that you would be leading these negotiations. In order to conduct negotiations, you have to have a clear idea of who these people are who are going to officially negotiate in front of the government that on behalf of and at the expense of the government of water, and it's worrying that you are not present today, even though it's been all August. That is why I urge you to make a decision as soon as possible, and together when you decide who will be sitting in government, resolve that question, because I think it is the most important thing for Serbia right now. Joining the EU, from the moment that Serbia's citizens definitely decided 13 years ago that we want to go to Europe, that's a decision that was made in the elections, is not a matter designed in any cabinet. As I think and that the ZES parliamentary club believes that Serbia's EU accession is the most important state business we have, we think it is necessary that you make a decision on who represents the state of Serbia in the negotiations that will take place in fact in September of the month. Whether we got the date formally or not, I don't see that that's the essential thing. Since September, very high EU officials will begin to appear here, there must be an examination of the situation of things, a record of the situation in each ministry, the state of each part of public affairs, and it is important that we have an EU negotiator in order not to waste time. I'm worried you didn't do it, as I'm worried about you going out with this law without having all the personal solutions for the government. Because we don't see the idea, let me say. Basically, I'm afraid you're missing one very big and important opportunity. The most important thing that has happened in the last year is that a tectonic political change has occurred in Serbia. It is not a matter of the fact that this coalition is different from the coalition that led Serbia four years before, although it is enough for those who were both in one and the other government to hold positions voted for by the majority Serbian citizens. Those who voted for SNS voted for Serbia to go to the EU. Those who vote for parties that are less or more now in opposition have been voting for 25 years for Serbia to go to the EU. When you look at the structure of this parliament except for one significant parliamentary group, all others and all those who voted for everyone else cast their vote that Serbia is going to the EU. It is a consensus, because it is four-fifths, five-sixths, whatever fraction of this parliament you want, for the country to go in a certain direction. The consensus was established because a consensus was established on another issue. It is Kosovo, same as excluding this significant parliamentary group, all others supported the agreement signed by the government with Pristina's interim authorities in Brussels, and it is a political decision that opened the space for us to move towards the EU. The political decision has opened, it is my belief, possibility and space that the Serbs living on KIM have the opportunity to fight, to continue to live on KIM once an articulated political process or to establish their serious influence on the political opportunities for KIM. The consensus opened the possibility of us entering serious negotiations with the EU and eventually becoming members of the EU. I'm afraid you're missing the opportunity to turn this political moment into a consensus on one more thing, about the economy, and that's why I've expressed my concern, because we don't see what the political idea in the economy is today. The problem of a pension system that is so large because over two billion euros each year is necessary to go out of the Republic of Serbia's budget to the PIO Fund, so that pensioners can regularly receive their benefits is the country's central economic issue. The issue concerns every citizen of this Serbia, because the number of pensioners is so large, and each of us, I mean the citizens of Serbia, is vitally interested in how this thing will continue to develop. I am convinced that the issue cannot be resolved unless there is a consensus, at least as high as the consensus on KIM. It's a political issue of the front row, it's essentially a political matter. The second central question we're going to talk about when we see what you're going to say in the economic policy exposé is the whole public sector, and I've told you about pensions. It encourages when a man hears that the goal of unemployment is to be reduced from 25, 26 or 27% as already measured today to 20% in a year. I am afraid that this goal is not realistic, unless serious public sector reform, central administration, local administrations, education, health care, police, begins, to see as citizens of Serbia how ready we are to pay for the functioning of our country. It's not a question for Angela Merkel, nor for Vladimir Putin, it's a question for us. We can't open that question unless the government opens it. As pensions, this is my belief will not be able, with them seriously to start dealing with the state without consensus, neither with public sector reform, I am fully convinced, not Serbia's state, no matter which government was able to begin to wrestling successfully, without serious consensus as it exists around KIM. Therefore, I regret to say, there is a chance that you have missed the opportunity to open such a political process. It's not good, because it increases the risk that in a year we won't have good indicators in the economy, because the economy is already being imposed as the most important thing, because for people it is the most important thing, how we live, it's the most important thing of all, and that's why I don't think it's a good thing that you spent a few weeks and a few months in this way. We'll wait to see here in a few days for the prime minister, members of the government, candidates for new members of the government, to see what you're planning, how do you plan to organize an economy? To share with us these ideas that today, unfortunately, are not in this Assembly, so they are not even in the government of the Republic of Serbia, that we finally see all those who will personalize the government, so that one fundamental and good debate on general politics, but also economic policy, we also bring. When that happens, I'll tell you what I have about regional policy. I also think that we have one extraordinary chance, a chance to open integration processes with the countries in our environment, which are here somewhere as far as status is concerned as Serbia is about joining the EU, someone is behind us where we are, to open up space to speed up this process for everyone. Serbia is a key country in Southeast Europe, the Western Balkans, whatever you call this political space we live in, and it is a great opportunity to help ourselves and help others by taking the initiative. We'll also see if you have any idea of sharing with us when by the end of the week we hope to see what the concept of the whole policy looks like. When we organise ourselves as a state around these things, then we will come to a clear conclusion that we do not live in a country that is well-organised, that it is not sustainable for citizens in Kursumlia and Pozarevec not to have the same formal legal opportunities to participate in political life as citizens of Vojvodina and Belgrade, that it is necessary to redecorate our country and these issues are therefore issues, so together for Serbia, they are essential. Opening space for millions of our country's citizens to participate in the decision-making, custody of the political and fiscal system that will open up the possibility that every local community in our country, eight or nine thousand communities in Serbia, have their budgets, that they can participate in deciding what their life priorities are, is the way to modernise Serbia. As long as it takes for the nation to get an impulse from the top of the state, it's not enough because we need to find a way for millions of people to get a chance to decide on public finances. Then if we did, we would be surprised at the size of Serbia's fiscal capacity and will no longer be, I'm sure, not once or not, that nine or nine and a half billion euros in budget revenues face the entire government, with the entire parliament and the whole nation with the sad fact that we can collect as much as a billion euros a year, because citizens were not allowed to participate in financing their country. So the key question is, how much are we as Serbian citizens willing to pay for the functioning of our country, our armies, our police, our courts, our schools and our hospitals where our children are taught and where we are all being treated together? That, ladies and gentlemen, without consensus is not possible. So over the past 20 and a few years, we've all been able to figure out that point and that attitude together to get there. The sooner with such an initiative the most responsible, which is the Government by the Constitution and by the nature of things, the sooner we get the chance to take our fate into our own hands and replace these interesting political exchanges, the fires with a constructive change of life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21986	The word is made by MP Branko Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21987	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today, of course, on the agenda, we have a bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act and it is natural that representatives and opposition are sometimes harder to do than this, I would say, however technical or normative questions make political issues a couple of excellencies and it is legitimate and it is okay, what is wrong is that after a practical two-month break in the work of Parliament, the citizens incur their televisions and hear some intellectual conversations, then various games of interesting geography, insults and all that practically the citizens did not deserve from those who sent here to this home. We in the SPS and, of course, as a parliamentary group, do not view the political issue as a couple of excellencies, we believe that this proposal, which should norm one content that will allow the Government of Prime Minister Dacic, which will be reconstructed most likely by the end of the week, practically goes into the realisation of the objectives in the emerging circumstances, which have led to reconstruction. Some here at the beginning of today's debate asked – why is the Prime Minister not present? I don't think they understand what the bill is about, but the prime minister will definitely be present when he exposes the exposés of his reconstructed government or the reconstructed cabinet. To him today, of course, if he wasn't here, and those who criticized it, I also don't believe they don't know that the prime minister has just gone to Brussels to work on the realisation of the government's policy on the resolution of this Kosovo Gordi knot, which is exactly what the representatives of these opposition parties have been so keenly committed to, so I just have to point out that the fact that they don't stay unsaid. In fact, in a formal legal sense, we all saw that there are no major deviations here from the current ministry law, except in the case of a single ministry that is practically divided to make it more rational and efficient with new staff solutions work towards achieving what is beyond what is necessary, which is the macroeconomic stability of this country. In one part, the opposition had the right to criticise the ambitious budget and budget rebalancing, but of course the responsibility for this budget and for this rebalancing was borne by the entire government, not one part of it. Those who have in such an over-ambitious and factually unfounded, economically inconsistencies defined both the draft budget and the rebalancing proposal are part of the essence that has nothing to do with the form and the normative framework. So it won't be found in that reconstructed government, at least not in the part they were dealing with, and that's also a question that no one here wanted to show and that nobody wanted to point to, but we were dealing with various mountain peaks. What awaits both citizens and citizens of Serbia, which, of course, will be much more interesting for both the opposition and the public, is the session at which the election of the new government will take place and of course the exhibition of Prime Minister Dacic and I think that you should save both your argument and your political ammunition for that day and make these very arguments that you consider correct and indicate if you want to be a constructive opposition and share with us responsibility for the citizens and citizens of Serbia, that you simply try to correct these authorities, perhaps to improve the work of that future reconstructed government. The SPS parliamentary group will, of course, vote in favour of this proposal to amend and supplement the Ministry Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21988	Thank you. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we'll be back at 15.00 hours. [[After a break.]] We're going back to work. Are any of the other presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21990	Dear President, Minister Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen fellow Members of the People, in addition to all these heated atmospheres and exchanges of emotions, low words, untruth, insult, I am still glad that the National Assembly has entered a normal course of work. We need to discuss the Ministry Act proposed by the Government to the National Assembly as soon as possible, which is, of course, for every criticism, not because it takes us more than 20 minutes to read this, but because it is evidence that the ruling coalition, primarily the SNS, treats this high home, which is like a water heater, respected citizens, through which something needs to be passed quickly in order to meet the deadlines, to respect the vision, how now is the modern word used in the reconstruction of the government and this farce that lasts for months, in order to meet the itinerary of the travel of Prime Minister Dacic. That's why we're getting this with such a big delay. What's the second problem in this text is that after six months, since March of the month, I remind the citizens, the government's reconstruction is being discussed, this government has managed to deliver the first law in that direction, the law, as my previous respected colleagues have spoken, in which one thing has been changed. So only the Ministry of Finance and the economy is divided into two parts and everything else is the same. They transferred the diaspora to the Foreign Ministry, though. This is what, citizens, from the volume of Max Webber's creative thought and everything else came to this Parliament after six months of media pumping, the exhibition of media, the attack on political opponents, the threats, the carrying out of any untruth and, after all, a completely abnormal situation that was created in our society in the expectation of miracles that should happen from the people who are going to run these resolutions that we're talking about today. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens, this government, not only talked six months about reconstruction, so it passed a law in which it changed, I repeat, one member, it did not find it appropriate to make an effort in this law, for example, to single out the Ministry of Ecology. It's one of the DS amendments and that's what we're going to look for through changes in this very law. The other thing is, we're going to look for some changes within the Ministry of Agriculture, because the prime minister complained that he has anti-building missiles, and he doesn't know what to do with them, so we're going to suggest that you change some other things about centralising the power of corruption and everything else in the MUP about issuing documents to citizens, which we think that led by a model of developed Western democracies can be removed from the MUP. It's just some of the things we suggested and we'll elaborate when the time comes in the coming days. However, we have no illusions that anyone will accept it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just one law that is the lobby of reconstruction. It is an integral part of the government's reconstruction that has no policy reconstruction, which has no plan and programme and, at the same time, the saddest and funniest, the day before, we don't even know who will be ministers. We don't know what their plan and programme will be, and we don't know what they're specifically trying to do, but I apologize because we know that one minister really said publicly that he reached out to the capital idea of tightening the belt. I have to say, it's genius, and so far it's not even at Max Webber's, seen that they're making savings at the same time, and they're increasing revenues. I really have to congratulate you on that. It is, ladies and gentlemen, the face of this authority, the face of this government that reconstructs itself. After the fall of the Government of Ivica Dacic, this is the Government of Aleksandra Vukic, who is now taking full responsibility for what you are about to adopt. The proposal for a ministry law, I repeat, is only the first step in an express double step that will be put into effect this week by the authorities over Serbian citizens. So you've been listening to the Spanish show, soap opera for six months. You listened to the bidding on who would be ministers, who wouldn't be ministers, waiting for the results of the main committee, some of which were broadcast live with all the green apples, and some of them are not Bureau sessions, which I think is a shame. I think it's correct for your regimeal media to transmit everything then, that we have a chance to see what can be heard and seen. The government of Ivica Dacic, who has fallen and is behind us, has not left, ladies and gentlemen, only the tigers and other angels to ride forward, but has left a very, very broken economic, social system, agriculture, energy, social, employment, security, justice, media, culture, education, health care, and I could do so by tomorrow, but I will not take away the time groups. What's a fact is that you, gentlemen of the elderly, will be riders, but you will be riders of the apocalypse, not the tiger. That's what sad truth is for Serbian citizens. Why am I saying that? Because you didn't bother to make any changes to your policy. You didn't try, and you can't do it because there's no political will in the ruling coalition, there's no relationship power that allows it, there's no expertise, there's no plan and programme. That's what we've been telling you all along. It's our right to point out. You will deny us, of course, but unfortunately we of yours and unfortunately the citizens of Serbia have very precise numbers to support it. Ladies and gentlemen, this government of departure, which has fallen, the Government of Ivica Dacic, who has fallen, I repeat, regardless of his lucid desires to have some other opposition since this one allegedly does not exist, so we are now speaking as the breeze and the wind that caress your hair, and not the opposition, since we do not exist, has left the biggest wave of gatherings in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, food is the most expensive in Europe. This is the government, unfortunately, which left 40,000 newly unemployed, but therefore 10,000 newly employed party soldiers. This is a government that's managed to actually cut the salary by 6%, and 50% of young people don't have a job. Employment funds have been abolished in even two missed budget rebalances that you, the advancers, voted for. For the frozen young man Dinkic, who came out your door, and you brought him back out the window yesterday, that man is indestructible, to quote a replica from a movie. He thought Mr. Dacic had won points, so he returned his first deputy to Dinkic as the first vice president for relations with the Arab Emirates money. Can you imagine that? Of course no one in Serbia likes it and of course the citizens of Serbia, so I'm sure the advances also ask why. Why are you doing this? How many times does it take for someone to fail the exam to give him every time he goes to the next class? That's a question for you. That's what you need to ask each other between those green apples while you're sitting on the board. Otherwise, unfortunately, this country has no drugs, as you know. There is no means to treat children abroad or medicines for rare diseases, but there is therefore a certain Babic who wants to, not you, Mr Zorane Babić, to spend 20m euros on electronic health books. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has brought down institutions and the country is slipping into one mind and dictatorship. If you don't trust me, and if you trust Alexander Vukic, just turn on the TV and buy a newspaper and everything will be clear to you. This is a government that unfortunately has released nearly 3,000 criminals, who have managed to record 80% of the crimes. The 50% increase is only on Belgrade City territory. The safety of every family in Serbia has been compromised. The government has managed to charge each family with a new 1,600 euros per head. A little prom, a great shame on this authority. This authority has managed not to fulfill a single letter and to count the pre-election promise. Otherwise, businesses and farmers, primarily farmers, which my colleague Senic will talk about, are not paid three billion dinars of subsidies, there are no new jobs, there are no new investments, except 200m euros that you managed to bring in, foreign direct investments, which is a success for this government that is not able to do much more than that, but it's far below your pre-election promise, and I won't keep reminding you of that, but you know it was billions. Otherwise, you replace Minister Knezevic for unclear reasons, as well as many other ministers. Another one of our objections - what were the criteria of the scale, the passing times, the second half, you have a series of sports metaphors, based on which some minister left and some didn't? You owe it to the citizens of Serbia. Minister Selakovic, I hope that at least you as a member of the government and today's personification of Ivica Dacic can tell why Alice Maric has been replaced, except that she has done nothing, and why Bačević has not been removed, why has Velimir Ilic not been removed and Mrkonjic has been replaced? By what criteria did you measure it? The only thing we've heard, some of them have no breath, they can't keep going, so we should give it to others. How did you measure their breath? Is this the team you're talking about here today? That's what I'm interested in. There's no money in this country for science or for pregnant women or talented students, but there's money for a ski resort and channels we all know. Otherwise, to return to the famous Mr. Knezevic, former minister soon, who says Aleksandar Vukic has not been removed because of aflatoxin, and why has he been removed? Whether his hairstyle doesn't like the SNS's main committee or he isn't a gentleman, perhaps because of that aflatoxin that Mr. Vukic promised I would repeat, quote by March 15th will be returned to the level from earlier. It passed on March 15th, 175 unfulfilled SNS promises and these authorities, unfulfilled promises unfortunately by Serbian citizens. Otherwise, in Serbia today, ladies and gentlemen 11 companies with more than 30,000 employees go bankrupt, and 40,000 people are out of work in the economy, 150 thousand workers will not have a work experience in Serbia. At the same time, two weeks of insulin deficiency, 22 thousand patients waiting for cataract surgery on stents not to speak. This is unfortunately a very sad list of things and drawing lines over what has already been passed by the Serbian government. The government of Ivica Dacic, who went into history, has left ruins in every place, in every domain, no pre-election promise has been fulfilled, no positive result. I know what you're gonna say. I know you'll say – we came after you so we saved the country from bankruptcy, you left this behind, you left it behind, and it'll turn back into work numbers. However, the facts tell the following. Even though we're probably the worst in the world and you think it's okay, it's legitimately your right. Otherwise, the numbers are unfortunately harsh and they show this dreary picture, and that dreary painting has been led since the moment you sat in power, not since the moment Mirko Cvetkovic was in power, because these numbers beat you and the numbers are better unfortunately Serbian citizens and unfortunately for us, because no one normal should be looking forward to it. What is certain is that this reconstruction was done in a way that not only criteria, unfortunately, were not established. We haven't heard of why someone's been replaced, or why someone's been set up, or what they're going to do, or what they're going to do, or what they're going to do, or what they're going to do, or what they're going to do, or what they're going to do, or what they're going to really change in their domain. Will the new ministers have the courage, political support and strength to move things that have not been moved in this country for decades? You say yes, and that's what you said about the last government. What makes the new reconstruction more important, bigger, more important to the citizens of Serbia than your first lineup you made a year ago in this same assembly? Why are these people better than the ones you originally suggested? What were the criteria? Where were your experts, all the time, on which the spare players' benches and why weren't they put in the fire immediately? As representatives of citizens not only as party representatives, I ask that? Where will you lead Serbia when this week passes, when this week you have brought two capital things together for this country after months of media and every other preparation. Where are we gonna wake up? Are we gonna wake up in a new world where we're making deals with the Emirates and their companies on the way here you come to me in four eyes where hotels are bought for more, and sales for less, in Kopalnik. Is this Serbia where you will lead us? Is that the market and the change of thinking and ethics? I don't think so. I'd like to be wrong about the citizens of Serbia, but I don't think the whole thing is going well. Time will show, and don't tell you what's suspicious, which is a skeptic, which is a criticism, which is justified by numbers, supported by the state, to answer in a low, emotional, whatever, political way you want. Try to see the way for this country together, which is waiting for us in the next period. We spent three hours today, so don't bring this thing down again to the ground level. Please, this is not an imperative tone, this is an appeal and I appeal to you that the questions that are legitimate, which you can mock in four walls, but try to answer them, and you from most here, and you, gentlemen, representatives of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21991	The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21992	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have come to the National Assembly and I apologize for not coming to the National Assembly in the afternoon for other obligations and for the fact that Nikola Selakovic has been appointed a representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have not come to the National Assembly. I came also because I saw from Mr Samardzic's statement that the MPs or part of them wanted to talk about the government's reconstruction, not the Ministry Act, which I also respect. It's the right of opposition. I guess that's what every one of us in the opposition benches used. Just as I heard or heard it, I can read in the reports that some people said they weren't scared and that they wouldn't be afraid of who, as if someone was scaring someone, and at the same time they were talking about someone's family, trying to talk about other people's beds. I came here to answer every question alone, not fearing Jovanovic or Samardzic or Stefanovic, because I was not afraid of you even when you were strongest, so I am not afraid of you today. I won't be afraid of you in the future. I came here to tell the people the truth about all these things, and that's... . (Kadomir Jovanovic, from town: This is mutual. If I may ask Mr. Jovanovic not to throw it away. I don't usually throw it to you, and I saw that it didn't work out for you this morning when some of the others were throwing away what I was completely agreeing with. I asked people not to do it by accident. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the scene: I'm just saying that it's both of us that I'm not afraid. It's not an argument. ) As for Miroslav Miskovic, mentioned by some, I mean Mr Jovanovic, I would like to inform you that never in the most responsible way, if you thought of me, and it would be a shame to think of something that I heard in the bar towers talking about, it would be a shame to talk about it, never paid for any plane ticket. Here, Miroslav Miskovic is alive, and he's throwing all kinds of meetings against me anyway, so it's enough to say that one word if it's true, and I guarantee by my cheek that never one plane, never one plane or anything like me or one of my own has paid. That's what I came here to say about the citizens of Serbia. As for what you told Mr. Stefanovic about, I see that there is this kind of cataclysmic image that someone is trying to present and I won't even try to say that the picture of reality in Serbia is ideal, that the situation in Serbia in any sphere of social life is ideal, but in many areas of social life is incomparably better than at a time when you were in power. In a lot of numbers, I'll back that up. I will also support what you say every day, about borrowings, about the level of borrowing, at which interest rates were owed by one government, at which interest rates were owed by another government and why the next government had to be in debt. You're wrong, Mr. Samardzic, when you talk about the percentage of the unemployed. It's not good news and it's not good news, but certainly the percentage of unemployed is accidentally something lower than it was a year ago, from 25.3% to 24.2%. We'll only be satisfied once we've partially managed to bring it down to below 20%. Remember, only five years ago, that level was 14.6%. So someone made geometric progress in the meantime, that growth of the unemployed up to 26%. As far as the most expensive food in Europe is concerned, Serbian food is far from the most expensive food. Of course, for low-income people, any price they pay is very high, but it is far from the most expensive food in the region, let alone in Europe. I don't understand what these exaggerations are all about, but I guess again to say something against those who produce food or to do something against the food manufacturer. As for the political and emotional low political ways you've talked about, we don't use it, and look who's been using it all along. You talk – you put Dinkic back on the window, and you threw him out the door, or vice versa, anyway. Is it a problem that a man will cooperate with us to bring investors because he's already worked with them? Who in Serbia is the problem? These people bond to people, they don't bond to function. What's the problem? If Jovanovic can do it, we will call Jovanovic. If you can do it, we'll call you, we'll invite anyone, and we don't have any problem with it, absolutely no problem with it, and that's what makes us quite different from you. I'm proud of the way this government behaves and how some of the previous behaves. As for drugs for children, it's hard to be in health because of various criminal affairs, because of numerous malfeasances, because of the great miracles that have been going on over the past 20 years, to be completely open, maybe even 25 years, whatever you want. We're going to have a hard time coming out of this situation in the next two or three years. But it's not moral for you to give us lectures and moral lessons, because your governments have led to a difficult situation and destruction and the Health Fund and our key pharmaceutical companies and our big pharmaceutical companies and producers. I don't know what's wrong with that, except for the fact that we're breaking regulations and sublegals and changing these sublegal norms to comply with the laws, we're making a decision to help our children and to provide treatment abroad and for which, it's true, there's not enough money, but we're doing our best to do it. You represent us here as some people who are monsters, who would leave their children without medication. I'll be perfectly honest, I used to talk about it with Vojislav Kostunica. When we spoke friendlyly a few months ago, he didn't mention -- do you remember the front pages of a list when they asked for elections for Kosovo and when it went to new elections? At the time, there was a hack every day, who talked about how someone tied up patients to radiators in KC Serbia, as if someone was doing it on purpose, whether Kostunica himself was working or the whole government, they were all crazy, so now they decided to do something like that. I have to admit that I can't understand that kind of approach, as I couldn't understand it at the time, no matter what we were on the opposite political sides. Like I don't mind telling you what I did wrong, so I can never understand those who don't know enough, so they got half the information. Then ask what happened about the government's decision on the Emirates, what happened around some hotel. If you haven't heard, it won't be that hotel, it has to collapse, and the price of something is lower. We're just about to see what the Property Directorate has done, and someone wants to invest huge money, tens of millions, to raise something very different here, to hire people, and for that they won't have the special subsidies that we normally give, because without these special subsidies, you can't attract anyone, because Bulgaria and Macedonia are giving big money to attract an investor, which is where your government was champion. I will try to keep these subsidies as low as possible and we all together in this government to be as low as possible, but without these subsidies, we will not be able to attract more serious foreign investors. If it's your suspicion that someone stole the money somewhere, please say it and call it that name. Say -- you stole 100,000 euros, you stole 500,000 euros, you stole 1,000 euros. Tell us that, don't hide behind something, we're very good, we'll draw it that way, but that's not exactly what we're going to say. So I don't know if we've done anything in this sphere or in that sphere. There's a lot of problems in a lot of spheres. I listened to you, it seemed like a good suggestion. I think foreigners could have been members of the government, that we needed help from people who were expert. You said - it's a patriotic question, don't, we have so many young and professional people abroad. When we decided to bring in young and professional, it was hard to find such young and professional people as we brought in, it wasn't good enough either. Whatever you do, it's never good enough. Tell us what's good. Is there anything good about it? I agree with what Mr Samardzic said. We have some problems in the area of justice and there's no doubt about it. It's not a secret, Mr. Samardzic. You know that as well as I do. We're going to be dragging these problems for a few more years, but I hope after that we have an orderly system, not because we have bad laws, but because it's been our practice for 30 years, which is the easiest thing for us to put on something... You have a lot of good judges, great lawyers, but you also have a part of those who like to keep something in a drawer for five years. We still have objects I think from 1996 that haven't ended. How do we think we're making progress and doing something? We can't. It's true that's the problem. You say - it's the government's fault. It's not the government's fault, just because the government didn't interfere. As I have said these other things about Miskovic openly to all citizens of Serbia, I am telling you now – we have never called any judge for any case. Do you think we liked all the decisions, the appeals, or do I not know which court? No, of course not. The only place we acted publicly was because it was, I think, the verdict about Mr Draskovic's case in Budva, because it's illogical that the assistant is gone or that after 13 years it can't end. Logic forced you to react, but to stay out of it and not speak any name, not to say anything about any judge, or anyone, or anything, because that's how you have to act. If we had reacted differently, you would have told us – stay out of Serbian justice. That's what you'd rightly tell us. This is how we see these problems, but people in Serbia need to know that the government can't do it. I reject any kind of story about us putting pressure on the Serbian Constitutional Court. We haven't put any pressure on the Serbian Constitutional Court, absolutely nothing, except that we tried and I think we ended up with the Constitutional Court getting its own building after so many years, our representative facility, in order to strengthen institutionalism in this country, in order to show that one of the most important institutions in this country must be respected, that it has its own building and that people have some kind of awe for that building, especially politicians, because it will make decisions that we don't like, you don't like, anyway. No other type of pressure has been put on Kosovo and Metohija, nor have we done any other cause. I want to tell you one more thing. I've seen it run through different statements today and what kind of campaign it's going through. I know when someone says you were doing this or Dacic's thing to entangle the Wolf, you were doing this or someone else's thing to take over all the power. I even listened to statements from people who are not lawyers, and the leaders are in opposition, who say – Vukic wants new elections to mark the autocracy that already exists. The lawyers laughed in the O.R. I didn't even want to comment. I don't know how you call it national will autocracy. That's what you call democracy, not autocracy. On the other hand, there's no choice. On the third hand, I guess I'm the only one who's left the entire resort voluntarily or gone from somewhere not wanting to have so much power, because I can't do this job that way. And alone, since you said, Mr. Stefanovic, no one has said why it can't and why it's wrong, it's not true. I said I wasn't able to do those two jobs at the same time and that I had no time, no opportunities, no power, no energy, no anything else, and that's why I resigned. So it's not true that people have not said why they no longer perform certain duties. But I know it's something else. The problem is SNS, the popularity of SNS and of course the problem is Alexander Vucic. I know who he is, I know who he isn't. I don't complain that I'm someone else's, and I'll stay that way. I'm sorry for some who I am, who see some things wrong, and I hope I won't be in the future. You don't have to invent reasons to attack our party and talk about how there's something threatening somewhere, because no one has ever threatened you, in any way, or talked to you like that. We've all known each other for 20 years, and if Mr. Selakovic was wrong about something, he was wrong about what he said about something spoken in the assembly hall, about a pay phone, about a criminal report. It cannot follow a criminal report for what was said in the assembly hall, it would not be normal, it would not be in the spirit of parliamentary democracy and parliamentary practice, but everything else has been a hack of it all along and a hack of the SNS. I have to tell you, you're throwing and yelling won't upset me a bit, and it won't scare me a bit. I hear that every day anyway. All I hear is that sometimes when someone tells you something, you say right away how he threatens, how I don't know what he's saying. That can't happen in this house. We can talk, we can disagree on nothing, but we need to talk peacefully, we need to talk about it, and the people will be the one to assess who was telling the truth, who was fighting for his interests, who might not have fought enough for his interests, because I believe that everyone in this room wants good to Serbia. I want to tell you that in the end, we, like this notorious political party, have listened to another proposal of yours. We'll have three out of five ministers who will be people who never belonged to the SNS and I don't believe you'll be able to easily find faults and grudges of professional objections. If that's not good for Serbia, and I know it wasn't always good for my party, I understand people in the party who are going to say – we've been fighting, and some others get the opportunity to show if they know anything, not us, but I have to admit that I don't understand those who've been accusing us all along of trying to collect more party power, and when we give up that kind of party power and when we give up the most important solutions to people who don't belong to any political party, and then there's some problem. Whenever something happens, there's a problem. This is also the problem with oak, which I will never understand, such is the problem with the General Staff building that I talked about with Mr. Sutanovac and he always had a correct attitude there and understood well what is what Serbia's obligation and what is our obligation to do about it, as I will never understand those who have stopped and started to talk – now that you've gone to this project "Belgrade on Water", we really need the railway to stand there, don't do it, no matter what it can bring two, three, maybe even five or six billion to this city and this country. If it's politics, that everything that's done, even if what you're up for is done, that it's got to be bad, and that you always have to find enough hard words to support your point of view, I reject that kind of criticism. If you have objections that are well-intentioned, well-intentioned to us, we do not ask you, benevolent or good for the country, we will accept them and it would not be the first time. I wouldn't have a problem saying that, because I didn't mind saying it when I was wrong about the peace missions, although there's no such thing as my statement, but I thought otherwise, so I wasn't ashamed to say that I thought otherwise. I must admit that such an attitude and attitude, the way you present yourself in the National Assembly, I cannot accept, and all objections that are rational, reasonable and all that we can change, repair both in the Ministry Act itself and in the reconstruction itself. You can see there's no more member you can change assistants and deputies, and that's the last time we saw you, which was the biggest, if you remember, year ago. So let's find solutions like that. Don't make someone who doesn't have the horns of someone who has double horns, like when we did, we made a stupid mistake and that's why you stayed in power for so long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21993	Replica was reported by MPs in the following order: MP Zoran Babic, Borislav Stefanovic, Cedomir Jovanovic, Dr Slobodan Samardzic and Dragan Sutanovac. Mr. Grandmother, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21994	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that Mr Stefanovic was paying attention to the session of the SNS General Committee. It is likely that in the presentation of Mr. Vukic and the debate that opened, he could learn much, to see, to accept new quality values. Even that green apple that appeared on every table, and the green apple is a symbol of health in Serbia, not only in Serbia but in Europe and the world, that is what symbolises SNS in Serbian society, whether you like it or not. However, in the address of Mr. Vukic yesterday, some things seem to have been reduced, Mr. President. When you said that we had inherited and that we were ready, that we were brave to ride a crisis of wild tiger level, I think we've reduced some things. In a recent statement by Mr Stefanovic, he said in a kind of recognition that the government of the Republic of Serbia and the SNS, as the largest and most responsible, is riding the crisis of the level of apocalypse. It means that we have reduced everything we have found and that with the kind of recognition of Mr. Stefanovic we ride and we have to solve the crisis of the level and depth of the apocalypse that the previous government left us and there is no explanation – we have paid our price in the elections. It's not enough. We have to remind you, and we have to do it for us, so we don't make similar mistakes. On the other hand, you said one more thing that bothered me – a blockade of media, that there is only one party in the media, only one people who appear. I hold in my hands an influential daily newspaper that I very much respect for because of my objectivity, independence and everything the media should have. On the 2nd side of this media today is your picture and statement, Mr. Stefanovic. On page 4 is Mr Jovanovic's statement. Could such a thing exist in a country that is in a media blockade, at least the opposition that is in the media blockade? He can't. (President: Time. ) Therefore, I ask that, for the sake of fact, we go to the citizens and citizens of Serbia only with the truth and with true messages.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21995	Mr. Stefanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21996	Yes, Mr. Babic, you didn't say until the end, it's a text in which, I think, and your statement or someone else in power, but what they're putting my picture on is more about you than about me. What's a fact is that I would ask you, if we already have this exchange, it seems constructive enough with Mr. Wolf, to keep it for these main committees of yours to prove your love for Alexander Vukic, that we don't all have to be here because we're really creeped out. What's a fact, Mr. Vukic mentioned, is that someone with malicious intensities creates a cataclysmic image. That's not true. Unfortunately, Serbian citizens, a cataclysmic picture exists in the harsh numbers and evidence of the impact of this incompetent authority and we have brought it out, as every time, and then it is immediately malicious. Tell us when it's not malicious. Do we say it through a song, do we stand on one foot when we say it to you or just keep quiet until you come to the same conclusion? Everything we told you a year ago happened. Your only answer is, it is your fault, and we have been cleaning up behind you, which is simply not true, because the numbers deny you, because everything is worse than then. Otherwise, these non-party experts, let's say Mirko Cvetkovic was a non-partisan man, and your criticism, Mr. Vukicu, was then the strongest against us, if I recall correctly, and I remember a lot from that period that you told us. I'm glad you're defending Mladjan Dinkic, but then it's not clear to me that you're telling the citizens of Serbia why you replaced him? So that's a little vague. So, it's great, Mladjan Dinkic, he can contribute a lot, the citizens of Serbia open champagne, he goes younger, and you say now -- he's great, he needs us. Before that, we need to remove him because he has no breath, he cannot withstand the pressure of the reform. The fact is, Mr. Vukic, that not only is it a statement that I think is positive about the assassination of Vuk Draskovic, but it is also a series of statements that you are going to put away, that someone will be arrested, that someone will be prosecuted, that someone will no longer be at large or will return to custody, it is also an impact on the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21997	Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21998	I'm not gonna talk like that, and I'm gonna try the numbers. I'm sorry that sometimes I see hate, because when you don't make any arguments other than insults, a few of your MPs are thrilled to applaud, then I understand that there are other arguments in question, not facts. On cynicism, I'm not going to be a cynicist to answer to the facts, the figures you're talking about. Today, unfortunately for you, and fortunately for Serbia, Serbia's exports are incomparably higher than at the time of the Mirko Cvetkovic government, when I was, by the way, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I was not a national MP. I could have criticized it somewhere else in public, but I haven't done it here, I haven't been an MP since 2007, so, as I suppose, you know. You say worse, I mention export, I have to tell you, and industrial production is at a significantly higher level than it was in your time. The interest rates at which we are in debt are much lower than they were in your time. It's at least some data and indicators that speak well. And those you've been sitting with for 11 or 12 years, and they've always been good for you, and now you laugh so sweetly when you criticize them. The difference between me and you is that, Mladjan Dinkic will be in opposition, I will be in power, but I do not want to say false things in those years, or false things, and to criticize someone for political points, because it is popular today in Serbia. My job is to do what's good for our country, not to court anyone, so I won't do it even when it comes to you. As for celebrations, numbers, and everything else, I think the figures that speak of our political organisations are saying enough. I'm not going to mention any of the numbers, not yours or ours, but I think the citizens of Serbia are saying enough to you and us who are successful and who are not successful enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u21999	The word is made by the MP Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22000	Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic. Mr. Wolf, I will try to use these two minutes to respond to the essence of what I recognized in your performance of almost twenty minutes. First of all, you started speaking in the Assembly, as if we were all actors of some bad Western film. I'm not afraid of you. I'm here now. Well, we're MPs. You think one of us is afraid of you? What kind of argument is that? Which would scare us. Do any of us want to hurt you? No, we were talking about your policy. If you wanted to talk, you'd be here when we got here at 11 o'clock. You came at 3:00 p.m. to try to iron out the stains that occurred in the afternoon debate. We don't want any part of it. What should you and I talk about? Your MPs who suggest testing here before entering the O.R., while behind their backs is a messenger who with two alcohols in his blood was trampled by a child and fled. That with you here right now, I'm proving my honesty by taking out phone records and plane tickets, and you're going to take out some others. What's that look like? You know what I resent? You're the most responsible politician in this country right now. Take that responsibility. What plots and plots. You really believe I made a deal with the Socialists, so I came here to the Assembly. We've been listening for six months-- a fundamental reconstruction, a change of consciousness, a change in each of us, so people who haven't stepped into politics, those who haven't spent their politics, Lords, Chancellors, Prime Ministers, and at the end of the day, the minister of justice who says, we've been awake for months following the government's work and we've concluded that we have to share one ministry. One thing you have to understand, Mr. Wolfie, is that you can change your mind and change your policy, and nobody's so black, that there's no right to a good gesture, and that's what we said before it was voted in May last year. That's what we said, the only one, we weren't involved in your war. But do not expect us to agree with your attitude; well, I was wrong. Well, I was wrong, what about 20 years of ruined lives, missing lives, lost lives, destroyed economy, education. You can't handle this on your own. You need support. We have seen the story of the government's reconstruction as our last chance to talk seriously about it. It's gonna be a good election, so who are you gonna make a government with later? With him, and what did you say about them? With me? Well, what did you say about me? With socialists, you have to bring the government down with them first. Are we so perversely a people that every authority hypnotizes itself by the fact that Serbs love it. Well, they love you, they gave you their life, they still have it, so now they expect you to give them pensions they don't have, to give them salaries they haven't earned, to hire them in companies that don't exist for 20 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22001	Mr. Jovanovic, you've been talking for three minutes and twenty seconds. You can't talk anymore. Mr. Stefanovic, replica. Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22002	I didn't want to talk about Mr. Miskovic, I just wanted to tell you, because I listened to the bar talk about someone giving someone something somewhere. So I came here before you, Mr. Jovanovic, respecting you, respecting the citizens of Serbia, respecting all our political opponents, but also the people who support and the party that I belong to, to say what is and what is not true. That's what I'm telling you by looking you in the face. You were talking about fears this morning, so I said it in one sentence, it wasn't my theme. I think it's very bad if anyone was afraid, you were stressing it this morning, and more MPs were stressing it here. There's no need for that, we've known each other long enough, and as I said, I didn't think you should be afraid of anyone in power, nor should we be afraid of you, nor was that the case in other times. As for the advice and what you're thinking, I appreciate it very much, and I'd like to hear any kind of serious criticism. You will see that many of your views and many of your advices as well as many of the things we have heard from the DSS, DS, will be implemented. As for Nikola Selakovic and the sentences he said. He said that to you in accordance with legal authority. You know, the Department of Justice controls the state administration and organizes the work of the ministries, and that was an ordinary sentence for which you, as a certain intelligent politician, tried to use as a sentence that represents nothing. We still have some mistakes in the Ministry Act, which I'm going to tell you, which in the future would be good to correct. But for which we didn't all have political powers together. I haven't heard from you today, I haven't heard from other representatives of the opposition. I'm getting ready to talk to you about it. That's, say, regulation of environmental issues that have been regulated into three ministries. Because of the different divisions, because of the different wonders and everything we were unable to do, and that will be one of our important chapters with the EU, we didn't know it, and we didn't have enough power at this point to put as a special section or to change it specifically in the Ministry Act. These are the things I will always accept the remark, to understand the remark and to say you're right. But for not accepting her responsibility. I accept Mr. Jovanovic's responsibility even where I'm not guilty. I accept it and I don't have a problem, and when you say it's not enough to say it's my fault, it's not enough, but it means something, too. I've heard from a small politician in Serbia that they say they're guilty of something. I used to hear that everyone else was guilty, and they were never guilty of anything. I don't have that problem to admit and what I did wrong, how I made a mistake, because I don't know a sinless man and I don't know a saint, especially I don't know him in our field of politics that we both do. At the same time, I ask you that since I do not participate in Western films, I am not a man who is not uninformed and a man who does not know things, and I am not a man who insulted anyone, because in a year, Mr. Jovanovic, you cannot find a word I said about you or your political party. I hope she can't even find DS, and maybe I'm wrong. I hope not, but I accept that I may be wrong. I've tried absolutely to bring down every kind of negative reaction to political opponents, for the DSS, I'm absolutely sure they can't find any bad or harder words that I've said. It was a way to try to change both our atmosphere and our behavior and try to talk in a different way, but that different way means not only our responsibility but also your responsibility. I'm not going to be responsible for some newspaper like I'm not interested in, and I'm not going to get into it when they write you very badly every day about me, about a lot of people in my environment, and I don't bring courts by that. I was expecting it, and I'm going to end it, and I apologize for making it up, when you said it, it's been talking for so many months. I don't know how many months we talked, we went into reconstruction, and we said that on July 26th, we'd say who won't be ministers, but after the 20th we're entering the Assembly, as we did, all within the deadlines we said, with the Ministry Act, and then with the reshuffle of the government. That's exactly what's going on. You said what happened, and now that we have a few new ministers, we think they'll do their job successfully. The paper is that in these ministries, they are now instead of party, now not party personalities, and we think they're professional people, that I don't think I'd underestimate many Lords, because I know some of whom I've learned from something, and many of them I'd like to learn from in the future. I hope that we will also be able to make acceptable arrangements with these people from abroad, which will not cost the state much, and that the state will gain a lot of respect and image, but also learn a lot, learn and implement and modernise the country, and I am sure that this is both your wish and your goal, not just mine, or the party that belongs to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22003	The word has Slobodan Samardzic, a replica of Mr. Vukic's first presentation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22004	Mr. Wolfie, maybe it's a good thing you came to the Assembly, at least we'll talk about the problem. You've put yourself at great risk, to flaunt with us, but you weren't there when we spoke. You're doing it based on your oral report, you can't do it differently, but the risk is as much as you can and you're wrong about what one of us said. When it comes to my discussion, you made a few mistakes and I wouldn't insist on them right now, except for one thing you said exactly. It's not true that I said you were putting political pressure on the judiciary, but I did say you were putting political pressure on the Constitutional Court and I'm telling you now that you're present to answer that question correctly. In October, the first proposal to examine the constitutionality of the Agreement, which is from the previous government, was put in place. In May of the month, a second proposal was made for the agreement that you concluded with Pristina and June of the month on the agenda. It's been seven months, and the Constitutional Court hasn't moved a finger to work on these things. Just to assume that it's not so possible without some kind of pressure. Namely, you have worked publicly, asked the Constitutional Court to stop in this procedure, but four times from December to June of the month, and the Constitutional Court has accepted that, with this suspension concerned each regulation individually and each act individually, so calculate, so you have six times six-six, and in 36 months you will finish your job. What's the explanation for stopping? You're going to make a special law on essential autonomy? What about that law? The court should also be silent and not to declare one procedure which is multiple in four proceedings, they are fully disciplined on your stopping requests, and you haven't even done a working group to make that law that should cover both agreements and what else. This cannot be interpreted differently, but as political pressure on the Constitutional Court. Bear in mind, Mr. Wolf, that the Constitutional Court is the last and most important protector of constitutionality. This is not about constitutionality, but about the provisions of the Constitution concerning the territorial integrity of Serbia, sovereignty, borders, Articles 1, 2, 8 and 182. The Constitutional Court does not act, but does not do so at will, but at your pressure. It is a matter of political reasons, because you must finish the job around Kosovo both in terms of the agreement and the plan and in relation to the elections by November to move forward in your plans, and that is the EU and the fog that you continue with the previous government. So it's a subtle pressure that goes beyond the stasis requirements, but it's "de facto" pressure for the political reasons I mentioned and that's what I was talking about. Therefore, now that you hear from me personally, you can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22005	Mr. Vukic, I apologize, just to ask Mr. Markovic, did you answer the line, I'll give you my word, but just to ask if it's a replica? It's not. Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22006	I understand and accept responsibility even though you know well that I never said it personally or did it. I know this applies to other people who spoke, and I will, as was just said to accept responsibility and try to explain what it was about. No one has asked for a delay in the process since April of the month, it was until April of the Brussels Agreement, I think that such demands from other people were not and I fully agree with you that even such subtle pressures should not be dealt with by anyone in the state. From that point of view, I'm thinking what you're thinking. And finally, I want to tell you, to be calm, every decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, whatever it is, we will respect it, it is our duty. If you really think, and I'm going to try to convince you one more time that someone ordered anyone in the Constitutional Court not to make any decision now, I'm telling you that you're wrong. As for our journey and what our obligation is and what it is that we end, our obligation is to protect Serbia, we don't have to agree on everything, but I won't let anyone else be more patriot and love this country more than we love it, as I won't say that we love our country more than you do, but I won't let you do the same. We do what we think is best for both our country and our people, trying to preserve ourselves in difficult conditions, almost impossible, KIM in Serbia, trying to modernise Serbia at the same time, trying not to destroy any principle of legality and constitutionality, whether we succeed in that, from this legal angle, from a legal point of view, to give its court and its opinion to the Constitutional Court of Serbia, and from this other point of view, in terms of the country's movement, citizens will judge it. I just think that we are in such a position today that, on the one hand, we are criticised because we are not going faster, and I don't know how faster it is to go to the EU, and on the other hand we are being criticised for going to Europe at all, and we are trying not to compromise our policy between remote positions of different political entities on the political scene, but to be what would be the best policy for Serbian citizens. I want to assure you that what we are doing, we are trying to do in the best interests of the citizens of Serbia. Whether we succeed or not, certainly the opposition thinks that no, certainly people think that they would do it in a different or better way, but the only thing I can't accept is that our beliefs can be different, but our relationship with our country, our relationship with our citizens and our people, but I also don't want to accept and I can't accept that your relationship with our people is better or more patriotic than ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22007	Mr. Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22008	Thank you. I'm just wondering if you'll be here all day to report as a replica, otherwise I plan, of course, to speak. I'd appreciate what you're saying if you'd be a little more honest and have the kind of relationship you have with your current government and your past government. When you say that Serbia today has an increase in exports, in which segment? Who is more exporting from Serbia today? Exports the car industry ‘Fiat’. Did you do this in a year for the Fiat to export more from Serbia, or is this the result of the former government's work, which has allocated hundreds of millions of euros to launch the production, so that the producer can come to Serbia and export? All other ministries have suffered to get a subsidy, to export from Serbia, and this is the result of the former government's work. It's fair to say -- there's been an increase, but thanks to someone working on it earlier, too, like you do. You want to tell us what we have on exporting agricultural products? We have far less exports of agricultural products. On the other hand, there's talk here about how non-partisan personalities finally come to the government. From Mr Panic and Avramovic we had almost Minister Smiljanic. Diana Dragutinović is still recognized by SNS personnel as a very capable woman in the NBS today. She was the finance minister. None of them were a member of the government, nor was Mr. Cvetkovic, however sympathetic they were, or supported any policy we represented. It's just, it's a fact. Yesterday on the main board, you said that no reforms have been carried out in Serbia in the last 15 years, and today we are waiting for a date for the start of negotiations. Based on what? It is impossible that only the ramp on Jarinj brings the start of the negotiations. In Serbia, for 10 years, or 13 years, people have been working hard, implementing reforms as they can and know to get candidate status. Today we support you for starting negotiations, but it's not fair to talk about you riding a tiger in a situation where half the government that sits with you was in the last government. To praise us Dinkic, and you say – the problem in the economy is in subsidies. So, who was doing it? You want to tell us that in health care for 10 years, it's no good? So who was doing it? (President: Time. ) These are your colleagues who you now respect more than we do, although we have received five times as many votes from Serbian citizens as they do. Five times as much support as they are. The citizens of Serbia recognized us as the ones who were quality in that government, not them. If you expect us as opposition here today to say something positive about your work, which is perfectly natural for me, it's unnatural for you to turn around and say everything that's happened, it's wrong. After all, you are running a portfolio that has carried out the biggest reforms in this part of Europe. It's because of the people who work at your place to say -- not everything that's been done. Let's not talk about anyone else. (President: Time, Mr. Sutanovac. I'm sorry, the others were talking for three and a half minutes. But you've been talking for three minutes. So I'm not really interested in how you give someone three and a half minutes. (President: I warn people. And I let you go for three minutes, so I was supposed to take away your word in the second minute? Mr. President, you've brought chaos here by not presidening today in a way...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22009	You're absolutely right. The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22010	Where he stands, I'll go on. So, I'm glad my colleague Sutanovac brought this up for "Fiat", that's a fact. It is also a fact that your government is in charge of the new four billion euros and then you say – we are paying back your debts. How is it possible that an increased debt is paid if you pay back our debts? Is that all you're saying? As for the statement, here I would now ask you publicly in front of everyone, that you now publicly condemn the attack against Cedomir Jovanovic and his wife in Hungary by calling the fans, who happened. Here, since you haven't done it so far, here I am asking you to do it now, because the fact, not because of Cedomir Jovanovic, but because when it doesn't do it, then you get that Kimi who comes after that 10 Kimi who can do whatever they want to do in Serbia, and all of Serbia is looking at you and waiting for such gestures from you. I don't know why, but what I do know, Mr. Wolfie, you said it was better in many spheres, I ask you in which spheres is better during this government? Is it better in the judiciary where zero charges were filed for organized crime, zero? Organized crime? Zero. You let over two and a half thousand criminals go free through amnesty. Magnified crimes by 50%, 650 judges with a SNS membership card you returned to the judiciary, 650, and then you say - we're slow to the judiciary. Maybe because of them? Is that what you've been thinking about? What's for sure is that it's not true that autocracy is legalized in elections, Mr. Wolf. And Ceausescu had elections, and Stalin had elections, Singapore has elections, Syria has elections and everyone gets over 80%. Tell us, do you claim to be behind what you said, that elections cannot legalize an unnatural state of one man's rule? Sure, but that's what the dam's gonna be on, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22011	The word is Alexander Vukitch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22012	You know, I thought I'd respond to Mr. Sutanovac in a serious way, although I think he has the least right to talk about my relationship with him, as Minister of Defense, because I've shown an enviable respect for something he's done, and the mistakes that have been made I've been silent and I've never said a word to him about it, because I think that's how responsible people behave. As far as you're concerned, Mr. Stefanovic, I find it difficult to find an expression that might describe the power of your emotional step. To say recklessly -- it's not, it's not strong enough to be reckless. If I said something else, you might have told me I was rude, and it would be more like the way you say it here and the way you talk to those who don't deserve it in any way. You tried to teach us a lesson here about how no charges were filed in organized crime. Shame on you, Mr. Stefanovic, you should be ashamed of that statement. I'm in the Bureau, and I'm praising the work of the man who ran that desk, got three cases, and all three of them were completed, all three of them. You've left so much at it. One case has not been completed regarding your high-ranking official, Mr Stefanovic, who your government has begun an investigation into organised crime, concerning the high-ranking official of your party, this case, you are right, is not finished. Maybe it's someone's fault in the current system that this case against your high-ranking official, which is your government and bureau at the time when the man I respect very much managed by that biroom has launched such an investigation. It's the only thing that's not finished. In doing so, I want to tell you, only that a security-information agency, by her order, has been charged with organised crime 89, you say none, Mr Stefanovic, and here you are telling the citizens of Serbia. These are the most serious crimes, from slave trafficking, to human trafficking, to trade, I don't know what kind of drugs, and I don't know what. Are you saying this is a country of crime, 650 judges with party books? In your day there were party judges and party books, you phoned them 10 times a day, what verdicts to make. You want me to tell you the names of your officials, by ministers, assistant ministers, State Secretary, everyone who called the judges? You want me to tell you the names of the judges who wrote the statements? I ask you, give me the name of the judge, Mr. Stefanovic, whom I invited, one? One name of the judge? He is not there, Mr Stefanovic, that changed in Serbia, which is why Serbia is better today than it was a year ago, although in Serbia it is still difficult and if it remains bad in Serbia. I've never been a problem, Mr. Sutanovac, to say, although there are a lot of things about the "Fiyats" that I wish were otherwise done, a good thing. Did I tell you today that "Tanaka" will come, "Jaka", we will try to reduce these subsidies, but will not come without subsidies to our country. How come no one came out to say -- well, good for you, people, we lost 50m euros annually to JAT. Yes, it will be fired or will be a social programme for 300 people, but 100 or 200 people will be employed and more than that, but we will have 50m euros in profits and with 50m euros in losses we will have 50m euros in just a year. That's not enough to say – wait, this is good news, this is something we can all be proud of together. I invite you, the first Air Serbia plane will arrive on October 27th, and next year we will have ten of them, and you know what that means. Well, say it - that's good. I'm telling you, we need 1,000 cases like this, and I'm ready to cooperate with each of you. I don't think they only sit bad or just good on any side. I'm willing to take advice and suggestions, and there's not a single case in organized crime, so it's a shame to hear it. It's a shame to the people who do this job. It is a shame for people working today to arrest the largest drug clan currently in the country in the territory of the City of Nis and that action will soon be over. But so much for that information. Next time you ask me, I'll give you the exact numbers and you won't have any problem with it, but if it has to be about everything the SNS did, and if that's what it is, and if that's the point of the whole story, say it, and I don't have any problem. I invite you in another way of co-operation and another way of talking. It's not hard for me to say what was right. Maybe my words were too much, but they weren't offensive about what was done in previous years just because I know what was just before us, and what you're saying is all insults to insults and nothing else. I thank you, and I just ask you to tell us what you have to say, to tell us what's true and what's true, we're gonna fix it, and what's not true, I'm really not able to fix it. For the next session of the Assembly, within three days I will provide you with a full report on the fight against organised crime over the past year and I will proudly present it to you here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22013	The word is Mr. Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22014	Thank you, Mr. President. The lines are done, right? Yeah. ) Based on your presidential right to the Rules of Procedure, where you decide whether or not to give replicas, I suppose you are, because you know that I did not answer safely to argue, because I am not interested in political passions that only bring confusion to the citizens of Serbia as part of what is important state business. Finally, as you know, that's why I don't need position or opposition. I have criticised the work of the ministries, given information to you, Mr Selakovic, about some ministries publicly, indicated, voted in different ways. So it's much more important that we all take this opportunity a little more seriously, having a lot of understanding that this is the National Assembly, that people want to advertise a little bit, a little bit to look for the culprit, a little bit to accuse others, but let me tell you something, for the citizens of Serbia, anyone who doesn't have to get on the bus is also to blame for the bus driver, let alone the car driver. For those who do not have a job, it is his fault that anyone who has a job and nothing in Serbia can be done if we just talk about what we are going to do, and since this is the only highest home in which, no matter what is said, only legal decisions can be made, they can come on the agenda, as Mr Selakovic has easily reminded, this amendment and addition of the Law is not software or system, but is personal. So it is due to the fact that some ministers will no longer be ministers, that some others will be under a coalition agreement that exists among the parties that agreed on it. Otherwise, I totally understand...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22015	Mr. Markovic, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22016	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22017	You called as an authorised representative? Yeah. I understand you've reached out to the Rules of Procedure. Excuse me, please. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22018	So, I'm talking about amendments and additions to the law. It's all right. Here, look what the atmosphere does, that we're just not sure what it is, because so many people have reported to the Rules of Procedure, forgetting what the subject is today. This is the topic and I decided to be an authorised representative in RS, and they thought the way I was going to talk about it was appropriate. I thank my colleagues from the U.R.S. I'm just saying, it could be according to the Rules of Procedure if I took my word like that, otherwise on that occasion I'd ask you to break your lines. If we're all saying that Serbia doesn't have time, then let's not waste time on promoting the story that we believe someone else is guilty – it's not. Of course it's the other one's fault. It's always like that. I heard that some Serbian citizens, those who have money for champagne and drink champagne, were opening their champagne for their money, their right, because they thought that Mladjan Dinkic had been replaced. You look forward to it most. Of course, that is the theme of today's session and these amendments and the addition of the Law, which I fear is that because of political passions, which is because of serious problems, and Serbia is in serious problems, we have a little mixed up whose business is, what coalitions, what resignations are, what is responsibility and we have moved everything we are talking about on television screens. Well, even now in the discussion, I've just heard that a representative of a party, you know that I don't like to speak party names because people who in one party are about to change it, it happens, it's human, why would I remember it all or be employees in some party or government, and then act like they've run the whole government, it doesn't have to confuse us. They've been following, say, some of the main committees, and they've been objecting to the fact that this open committee has been publicly transferred. It's been going on for years. For years, a party has a main board and then, in direct transmission, let television see some benefit and then engage and transmit it directly. It's a matter of political discussion and apparently spoke about how political power is used. I'm only interested in the law, and when I see something like that, I'm just worried about why it doesn't say - rental term, because by law, if the party paid for it, it has to write a rental term or why it doesn't say what it says in the law that it should be written at first – we don't recommend this to viewers under a certain number of years. As you know, for the past 20 years, since everyone's been talking for 20 years, I've watched those programs and transmissions that were supposed to be written at the beginning – we don't recommend this to any viewer. There was that, too. The job of this legislature is to take care of the law. The amendment and addition of the law that lies before us today is no cause at all. These changes and additions are due to everything that happened in previous months in the attempts of different people, regardless of whether they are in the government or not, to find a way to find a terribly difficult situation in which citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia are possibly improving and that we are all aware that there can be no effect right away and that citizens will not be satisfied if they hear the facts. Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic just said he won't tell you the data in some political discussion about the amount of export. I can tell you all the information, but I won't. It's just enough to tell you that out of the first 15 exporters, only two exporters are related to the car industry. The other 13 aren't, but it's not crucial, because citizens still don't live better than that. It takes hundreds and hundreds of companies to increase exports and make our people work in them. In doing so, not just any people but those who have the most difficulty, which are people who are 45 years old, who have no job, 50 years old, 55 years old, and before them, God will give them many more years of life, have a huge experience, and how are we going to hire them? Let's go back to what's on the agenda. The consequence, which is the alterations and additions and exactly as you defined Mr Selakovic, personal, as a personal matter, is the consequences of that publicly announced decision, someone said today, exactly 170 days ago. It's not bad to know the facts, or tomorrow it's 13 days of this government that's gathered around goals that I hope haven't changed, because no one has said they've changed, and in that sense anyone who respects those goals will support it in the future. One is coalition agreements, and one is the government's goals that the Assembly adopts here, as a government policy. So 170 days ago, a public message came that I should be on a personal case, and I hope that I have enough right to talk about personal examples in politics and public life, and I need to show on a personal case what is responsible, not to look for a guilty person, but many people come in and get invited to different places with good intentions, with good ideas, then it turns out that either work has been reassessed or they haven't managed, and they are good people. So one way or another, you need to replace those people immediately and place others. That's something we immediately supported. When I tell me, I think of the URS for the simple reason that only in our programme does it write as an obligation and it is said right away – political life is still just life. In life you have to measure passing times, look at your results and other people's results and figure out what you're going to do next. It turns out, because it's about living people, about living parties, about a terribly difficult and complicated situation where we're all responsible, that we take care of how others live, not just those who drink champagne, and who we're moving in Serbia, and we really see what unresolved problems people are facing. One is the state's poverty to start investment as much as in different governments, in different ways trying to subsidize it, and one is the poverty of citizens, the misery that humiliates people, which makes them powerless, unprepared to do anything. The key obligation of all, whether they are position or opposition, whether they are in power or not right now, is to give hope to those people so that they can, because only they can change Serbia, because Serbian citizens are just them. No one else can do that. Let's understand each other right away. Soon the names of the people who will come to the government will be spoken of. Today I will say, and I will repeat this on Thursday or Friday, at the time of the session of those names, to anyone who enters the government today, individually I will say – welcome to the Serbian Government. I will tell anyone who comes to Serbia – welcome to Serbia, because that welcome is a prerequisite for having to tell people afterwards – and what you have come to do is to do a job and welcome you to the National Assembly. It follows your obligation to strictly respect the law, not the political will, the law, to strictly respect obligations, and the political will is defined after the elections whenever they come and however some of the 15, 20 or 150 parties are made. Before I say it to those who prepare themselves and show their willingness to take over the government's work obligations, I have to go back to what we talked about, is a very normal situation that says that whoever we sent out to do a job somewhere, and we've estimated that he didn't get along, regardless of the position of the party or the state or what the job description is, we'll immediately replace that when we've all become aware that he's not doing his job well, he's doing his job for months. It turns out it's not easy to do in Serbia. It's not easy because there are different political interests, political vanity. Then there was another idea that said let's take advantage of this situation and we supported that idea, to start with one fundamental, deep reconstruction that would cause different personal changes, but unfortunately because of the unpreparedness of many as you know at one point it ended, and since then it's been two months. I respect all those who respect the deadlines they said themselves, but there are deadlines that appear on the media. In comparison, we suddenly found ourselves in a situation where people reported through the media that they had resigned from their parties. I don't mind people informing the party and that's fine with me. I object if it is forgotten, and I now remind the position and opposition of what the Constitution says, and I agree with you, Mr. Vukic, every decision of the Constitutional Court and every member of the Constitution must be respected. People forget, Article 5. The Constitution says - the parties cannot exercise direct authority. That's strictly forbidden. You know what resignation is, you know what giving is, you know how giving is, you know how it's being determined or adopted, you know what's changing what's being replaced. So there's a procedure for everything. It is terribly important for all those well-intentioned, and I respect the fact that many in power have shown public willingness to act in harmony with basic principles so as not to compromise the procedure. Democracy is not only most, democracy is primarily procedures. Secondly, so as not to find ourselves in a situation where, because of the current political differences, we constantly deprive ourselves of any human beings, any ideas, and ideas do not have copyright property, all the good ideas whoever uses them for Serbia's sake will always have my support. All high-quality people who are willing to work for Serbia's sake will have my support, but we must not meet in a situation where citizens more trust TV shows than state institutions. It's a dangerous situation. You, President Stefanovic, were on TV this morning on a show. On this occasion, a journalist, who is obviously also informed, a very nice lady, asks you – are you disappointed that you are not proposing for a minister? Imagine, asking the President of the Assembly if he is disappointed that he is not proposed for a minister, in which both the rights and obligations of the MPs far exceed some of the rights and obligations of the minister, let alone the powers of the President of the Assembly, one of the three functions of the President of the Republic, which guarantees the functioning of the Constitution and in the most difficult times, emergency situations, when the Assembly cannot even meet or the Government cannot meet. Of course, you've responded very nicely, and that was nice to hear, but I'd be worried right now, like any viewer, is it possible that we've disrupted what's what? Do you know what happens, how it ends when citizens think there's power in Takovska? Do you remember that? Or, where RIK is, do you remember that millions of people walk past the government building with the idea of changing the government? These are the things we need to learn from. I also don't blame anyone, but when I remind you of what the party is, what the government is, what the National Assembly is, I remind everyone, because here today several times you mentioned what was 10, 20 years ago. I remember what happened 10 years ago and 20 years ago. I support the fact that people change. It's the only hope. I hope I'm changing, too, and I'd like to change for the better or at least not to change those things that I can't change for the better, and some things about how I'm going to change don't decide, like any of us. I'm getting older. I'm physically powerless. I can't remember 20 digits in sequence any more than I could, my God. As you don't have to explain why it's important in every Dukean city, so the most paid subscription and television and everything else and taxes at the highest percentage, you don't have to explain which institutions are important. In every square you have, there's a municipality, there's a court, there's a municipality, there's a parliament, there's a church, there's a school and you learn, passing by what's really important. (President: Time. Let me just have a few more sentences. (President: I'm angry with my colleagues who warned me that I'm having an irregular deployment, because I'm always looking to give a few sentences to people to finish, so I'm asking you to finish in ten seconds, if you can, so we don't break the Rules of Procedure. Then I'll end up with a nice personal message. When we know who he is, then we have the National Assembly and we make everyone today that the National Assembly is a serious home, when he meets us with his child, because here in a negative context we talk about families, I love in a positive way, when someone who heads the opposition meets us, when he meets the President of the Assembly, then he says, son, come meet you, this gentleman is the uncle who runs the Assembly that I go to every day. Isn't that right, Mr. Wolfie? We should all do that, even when we amend and supplement these laws, and we will talk about the amendments later, do everything we can to show what it means to preserve the dignity of the House of the National Assembly. Thank you all for listening to me. That's what I wanted to tell you today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22019	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22020	We continue the controversy, i.e. This conversation that we started when Mr. Wolf got here. Just a few things to answer what you told me. You have no right to say that the government did not act on the Constitutional Court after the end of April. One request went out of President Dacic's office early June with his signature. This was a request to stop the examination of the Catastrophe Agreement. By the way, only then did the Constitutional Court respond to the decision to accept the suspension of the process on the basis of the government's request. What we are reading from this is one of the tactics behind this slow walk that should allow the government to complete its work on Kosovo, so that the Constitutional Court does not act because the Constitutional Court cannot otherwise accept our proposals. That's why the Constitutional Court is passive. It's one thing for citizens to explain that thing on a level of fact. The other thing is your policy. We don't have personal disputes about it. Our disputes are political. We disagree on Kosovo politics today and here. So it's about facts, not what someone might have said to someone or what a party has a strategy, so it doesn't allow someone else to lecture her on patriotism. That's not our theme. Our theme is something based on facts. What is a hard fact today is that the agreement and the government's plan produce the necessity to hold local elections in Kosovo on November 3rd. The fact is that they will be held under the same agreement and according to the plan under the Kosovo Constitution and Kosovo law. The fact is that after these elections, our institutions operating today in Kosovo will be shut down and that they will build the institutions of the Serb minority in Kosovo as an independent state. (President: Time. That's what the facts are for us and that's what we're criticizing about you. We believe that you are completing a process that lasts 14 years in which people are scramblingly fighting for their rights... (President: Time, Mr Samardzic, two minutes and 16 seconds. These are the people you're trying to convince to go to the polls, and they're all showing by their legitimate means that they're not...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22021	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22022	When an esteemed colleague says we should get back to the agenda and speak 20 minutes in this room, it's hard to go on. Mr. Wolfie, I just want to finish this dialogue somehow. It seems to me that those people who watched your last debate will think we have some personal relationship and a personal problem. If this is a very possible secret and I see that it is, for members of your party and probably most of the public and in this Assembly, it is not what you say about me when you meet strangers in the country and abroad, in which way you are proud of the reform that has been done in your portfolio and what has been done. I'm sorry that you have better words and you choose words more than those who profited from this reform and who today in your system want to return to military service and try to figure something out. I put myself at your disposal when we spoke during the handover. I told you that everything you think I can do to help you, and believe me, I can help you. I told you that you would only be exposed to criticism if the things that happen in the ministry were against what I thought was supposed to be a reform course. That ministry is still the best ministry today. I told you and then I don't think you're gonna be able to make it and achieve the job of the Secretary of Defense and I don't know what else you're doing right now. What may be an even bigger problem for you is that you must be aware that from the reconstruction of this government you are becoming the chief commander and chief responsibility, not just for the defence portfolio, for all the resistors. Lazar or I don't know who else will be the minister who comes to your proposal, and with your guarantees, they have to show the result. I like him as much as I do, and I have no doubt that everyone who wants to help Serbia, while being educated abroad, should return. But it's not a guarantee of quality and it's not enough. A guy who's been working in an orderly system for years and comes into one mess needs to be dealt with. Does Serbia have time to cope with our finances or does he think he will do it quickly? Our support will be to that. (President: Time. But you need to understand one more thing. We're the opposition. Don't expect us to praise something we haven't seen before. Air Serbia needs to land. We've passed a law on public procurement that's supposed to save 600,000, half a year 300,000 thousand. Where's that $300,000? He hasn't saved up, he's stalled public procurement... (President: Time, Mr. Sutanovac, two minutes and 40 seconds. ) All ministries are in trouble, and your ministry. If it was a way of saving, not buying anything, then it's something else entirely. First you jump, then say hop, so if it's as good as "Fiat," we'll commend you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22023	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22024	I'm really going to try to finish the dialogue with Mr. Vukic, going over some irregularities in that conversation, and I really need to say that I saw two Mr. Vukic today, the old one and this new one. What is a fact and to sublime everything, we have asked you several very specific questions, very concrete and unfortunately we have not received an answer. It's not an insult, Mr. Vukic, if the opposition brings you any information that you think is not true or that you have even proof that they are not true, which I do not bring under question. Don't immediately qualify it as insults or low attacks or anything else you've said here. I don't understand this relationship at all to something that we all do for the common benefit of Serbian citizens. We claim that there may be more cases in the work on organised crime and criminal charges and on the BIA or MUP initiative, anyway, but the indictment is the indictment. We may be wrong, Mr. Wolfie, but that's no reason for such a reaction, you'll agree. I'm sure you'll agree. I don't think that brings any good to anyone. What is certain is that we have not heard the answers to important questions, which is – how do you think to solve burning problems that you yourself have defined, unemployment, the catastrophic situation in the economy, over-indebtedness, poor finances, poor fiscal tax system, agriculture, health care, education and everything else. So these are things that maybe you don't need to tell us today. We may be saving it for Thursday, maybe for Friday, for Saturday, when future ministers and I agree, but don't let this dialogue between the two of us end by making it look like I'm lying and I'm ashamed of something... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... without you answering a single question, Mr. Wolfie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22025	Alexander Vukitch, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22026	I tried and tried to answer every question you asked. Maybe I wasn't successful enough. The way you talk about me in public, which I rarely have a chance to speak about publicly, and now I'm going to take advantage of, and that's -- they're radicals, they're changed, two or two Wolfs, or I don't know any of them, which is two seconds when I don't take advantage of every attitude, when I'm decent enough not to say one insult, not one slander, but I guess I'm old and bad because I dared stand up to you, because I dared to tell the truth about something. I'm just a man with a lot of faults. I think I also have a good quality, unlike many in politics – I am not ashamed to speak openly about my flaws, I am not ashamed to learn, I am not ashamed to work. I learn new languages every day, every day I search for new reading, a new book, every day I try to find out something new, to see something new and my delusions, mistakes or new knowledge and experiences I'm not ashamed to share with my citizens. As far as I'm concerned, in a joke, I could answer you, the charges, which there are, of course, prosecutors for organized crime, you've put up, Mr. Stefanovic, not me and the SNS. That's your dick. That's the man you're proud of, and the man I can't speak ill of, I can't say anything wrong, and I won't say anything. Is that what you're saying he's a bribe, so I bribed him or someone else, so he doesn't run organized crime proceedings? I don't think that's what you're saying. I don't think anyone else wants to say that. But don't worry, you'll get a comprehensive report to fight organized crime that's never been stronger, it's never been stronger. Because of some who are from other republics, and because they received money from certain tycoons in Serbia, to speak ill of me and to try to tell a story somewhere that they thought I would not answer, I am obliged to answer to the citizens of Serbia about the reference. My big, only mistake and the only real deadline I didn't meet, but which I think is only a deadline, not a fundamental one, it was the arrest of Saric. But if someone told me or anyone in the Serbian government that they dare say -- we keep it somewhere or we kind of negotiate with someone, I want to tell you, but not first of all, because you didn't say anything about it, first of all, to the public and those who falsely presented it, that we will do our job and that Saric will be brought to justice, both Saric and everyone else who participated in the killing of our children and others. When I say - killing - it is understood by selling drugs or the worst possible poisoning that modern society can imagine. I'm just saying, I don't have any personal problems. And when I had them with someone, I tried to put them aside. When I looked at what was wrong before, they noticed well, as sometimes I see well with you, not personally, but with some of your party, and cynicism and sarcasm, so I try not to see it anymore in my address. You said well, I'm saying the same thing here in the National Assembly, both in Washington and Moscow, and you haven't heard anything I've said, either there or here, anything worse or something better than what I say to your face. I think it's a good policy, an honest and responsible policy. We don't all have the same political views, but I think that's something that's very good. As far as AIR Serbia is concerned, you will soon be invited, I think on October 27th, like all the other MPs, to see, I hope, how our national company can modern, well, powerful and powerfully look and represent us. We accept every contribution you make from the bar. As far as the responsibility of whose government, about this story is when and how, who wants to change the edge of Dacic or I don't know who, you know, that I wanted it personally and that I was hungry for the authorities, as some of them said, I wouldn't leave the resort, and you were right about what you told me, and, as you saw, I wasn't ashamed to admit it, and I could say - I don't want to participate in it anymore, we're going to the elections. I hope you'd find it hard to dispute the fact that the party I'm running would get a convincing majority of votes. By the way, I've got a little joke, and I'm sorry if I exaggerated, since Mr. Stefanovic, I guess, in the rush of emotion, said that Stalin and Ceausescu both had elections, so I'd like to ask him – what kind of elections did Stalin and Ceausescu have to explain to me what the elections were like with Stalin and Ceausescu? We're a single-party system long ago, 24 years ago, and I'm not wrong, so I didn't understand that kind of comparison. In any case, what is important to us, what Mr. Dacic signed, is in accordance with Article 55. The Constitutional Court Act, it was signed in accordance with legal powers, but I am still in agreement with you, and I agree that this cannot last forever and that the Constitutional Court, since you have made more submissions to the Constitutional Court and have proposed to the Constitutional Court to consider, I am convinced that the Constitutional Court, in accordance with its powers and not waiting for the years to pass, as you have said, will make its decision. Every decision of the Constitutional Court will be respected. As for the program, to tell you, Mr. Stefanovic, once again, by apologizing to you if in any way I've gone too far in anything, I've tried to tell you what it is that I think we need to change, but now I'm going to tell you. I think we're going to have to do an extra tax reform, even though tax administration works better today than it did a year ago. I think we're going to have to make changes in public enterprises, actually restructure public enterprises, not just on words, ours and yours. I also hope that together we can get the strength to reform the public administration. When I talk about it, we're going to have to give up both us and you, on every level. Many people will be against it, but I am convinced that Serbia, even if it has dealt with those political reformers, will then be able to live better, and our goal is that Serbia lives better, that Serbian citizens live better, and that we have a slightly different future than what that future looked like a year or a few months ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22027	Thank you. The MP Vladimir Cvian has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22028	Mr. First Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here, six hours and 10 minutes there are how we started today's debate, we've heard various discussions that may not have exactly been in line with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we've heard discussions about the reconstruction of the government itself, it's going to be on the agenda in a few days, but actually, I don't think anyone's ever talked about what the subject of the agenda is, and that's the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act, which the Government has proposed. It's time to, in my opinion, get back to the agenda. It is time to see what the quality of the proposed law is, even from the angle of the SNS parliamentary group and to see why, in our opinion, it is necessary to vote and perhaps adopt it unanimously. Absolutely as a lawyer, they can't agree with the conclusion that these are minor changes, that the proposed law contains some cosmetic or technical changes. It is an extremely large change on which we see that the Ministry of Justice has worked very seriously, and therefore made up an extremely serious text. The most important reform, the most important reform move we see in the proposed law, is the most important move we expect from which we expect the better lives of citizens but also better functioning of the state administration is the separation of the former Grand Ministry of Finance and Business to two separate ministries – the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. What is the quality, in our opinion, of the proposed law is the fact that it is very precisely defined which are the competences of the newly established Ministry of Finance. This newly established finance ministry will have to deal with really important issues, such as: the Republic budget, public expenditure policy, the public debt issue and financial assets of the Republic of Serbia, the affairs of the state administration relating to gambling, the prevention of money laundering, accounting, privatisation and resolution of banks, the system of accounting and audit and many other issues that are in the area of finance. On the other hand, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law have been very precisely defined which are the responsibilities of the Ministry of Industry, in that the Ministry of Economy will, from now on, be responsible for economic development and economic development policy, for privatisation issues, for bankruptcy, standardisation, accreditation, measure and precious metals, the issue of tourism that is particularly important for the development of Serbia's economy, etc. Why did I list some of the most basic responsibilities of these two newly founded ministries? Citizens and we ourselves need to be aware that once all of this and much more was in one ministry. There is also a proposal today to remain one ministry – the Ministry of Finance and Business, but we will agree that it is difficult and imagine that one minister and one team can do quality and indeed in the best possible way to do this job. We accept other opinions, there are amendments that go in this direction, but the bottom line is that we think it's worth trying to separate the finance ministry from the economy ministry, that it's worth trying to accept, at the very least, the suggestions of many experts and MPs to regulate the most important part of our state administration in this way. The proposed amendments and additions to the Law were not touched by the authorities of the administration that would be part of these ministries. So, the finance ministry will continue to have the Tax Administration and Customs Administration in its composition, and the Ministry will establish the Directorate for Measures and Precious Metals. What should also be supported in the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act is also a very precise definition of the foreign ministry's competence in the diaspora. It is good that the Law on Diaspora and Serbs in the region, which envisioned the existence and assembly of the diaspora, was adopted recently and we have also had the opportunity to see the meeting of the Assembly here in Belgrade, right in the House of the National Assembly, but it is now extremely good that the competences of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were precisely transferred, precisely defined in the Law on Ministrys in the work concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It will be a guideline to our diaspora, which is indeed an unsanitary source of intelligence and ideas, in the future we expect a source of investment, to know who to turn to when it comes to their rights, especially when it comes to the rights of the Diaspora Assembly. We should meet the citizens and that the proposed amendments to the Ministry Act are intended and specified to specify the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice, in particular the precision in the area of property relations, which has not been the case so far. So far, these powers have been regulated by certain agreements between the ministries and the like, which is certainly not the best possible constitutional and even the least possible legal way of regulating jurisdiction, so from now on that part will be clearly defined. Citizens need to be aware and we all need to conclude once again that the proposed law does not require any specific budget funds. So for this law, the funds are already provided or peopleally said, implementing this law will not cost the citizens, it will not cost the state anything. On the other hand, the rights already acquired have, of course, been guaranteed in accordance with the Constitution, all employees will, of course, still have their labour rights in that the Ministry of Finance will take over those employees who are required according to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance. The economy ministry will do the same with employees who will carry out work from the district for which the Ministry of Economy is responsible. Of course, the newly established bodies will be taken over by newly established institutions, takeovers and archives, will take over themselves and the items that guarantee that all cases whose resolution has begun to be resolved. The new ministers will deal with it and there will be no problem with it. Thirty days after the adoption of this law will be the deadline, i.e. after the entry into force of this law, for newly established ministries to bring in internal acts. So, in one word, when we add everything together, all the procedures, all the constitutional guarantees, everything else is respected, everything that needs to be in line with European standards is fully respected here. To conclude with this, another outstanding quality law passed by the Ministry of Justice and the team of Minister Selakovic, a law whose quality is seen from the fact that nearly 30 amendments have arrived so far. Of course, these are extremely, mostly very high-quality, very correct amendments that will, of course, be considered. I believe that by the old tradition of Minister Selakovic, a number of amendments will be accepted because they do deserve it. So when we put all this on one, let's say, a bunch of evidence, a bunch of arguments, then we can also figure out why they'll support this law in the SNS vote day. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22029	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, are answering for a word, we are moving to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22030	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I understand that there has been quite enough experience from one year to understand the need to return the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights through these amendments and the addition of the Ministry Act. Unfortunately, it has clearly overcome the known logic that the ministry is unnecessary because of the alleged high level of human and minority rights in Serbia. In fact, this drastic simplification and reduction of mechanisms for solving very serious problems in this area is merely an artificial vision of high standards of human and minority rights, which only temporarily conceals existing problems, and this reflects direct damage to the vital interests of all minority communities, especially strategic state interests. Practice shows that the Office of Human and Minority Rights is unable to solve a number of serious problems among other national minorities. On this occasion, I will talk about problems that this office does not solve when it comes to Albanians in Serbia. For a very long time, authorities in Serbia have been trying to justify a non-resilient problem especially in the Albanian education area because of their refusal to form a national council. When the Albanian people, with the help of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, formed a national council and it was just beginning to solve a part of the problem in the field of education, in the provision of basic school textbooks, unfortunately during this year, the work of the National Council of the Albanian Minority has been largely blocked, by the ministry of education preventing the National Council from exercising legal rights in the field of school management, which has led to the creation of a chaotic state of schools in Bujanovac, double administrations, dual management were created. The office isn't capable of solving these problems. In the end, and because it directly affected the drastic reduction of the funding of the National Council of Albanians of the national minority, the problem stemmed from the 2011 boycott of the census by Albanians, of course based on calls from the political parties of Albanians in the area at the time. At the time, there was no government's willingness to negotiate with Albanian political representatives to solve the problem. But that is why, very smoothly, when I say smooth, bureaucratic administratively, a drastic reduction is applied because instead of the previous 61 thousand Albanians on the 2002 census, they are manipulated by a number of some over 5,000 Albanians. And instead of one serious debate at all social levels at all national levels, so in the government, how come such a drastic reduction in the number of Albanians, for which reasons, for which reasons, for what situation can 12 times the number of a national minority be reduced by 10 years? The five thousand Albanian provision is now strictly implemented, at a time when there are about five thousand five hundred founders only in the Presevo municipality. That's why I'm saying that the office isn't capable of solving these sensitive problems and that the ministry is still in need of this next government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22031	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22032	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Minister, is ahead of us with a proposal for the Ministry Act, and I would say, a small change, but I also have to add that this is actually one step in our view, one step forward towards the systemic approach of an extremely important issue, a fundamental issue. What kind of government does the Republic of Serbia need at this time and necessary Serbia? This is a qualitative shift in the sense that we are talking, we have one systemic approach in the context which is the number of the ministry that is needed, necessary and which are the areas that individual ministries will do, or regulate. I would like to agree with Mr. Vukic, who was talking about one subject, which I think is important, and it is about better and better regulation of environmental issues. The proposal we are talking about today, as regards the SPS parliamentary club, is neither a political declaration nor a reflection of the current political moment, this is one basic, one sustainable model that some future governments of Serbia should adhere to, and not that each government has its own approach, that each government has its own opinion, which is the number of ministries within the government, needed Serbia, and that this opinion adapts to the current political moment and current coalition negotiations. In theory, the government can function with six and seven, with thirty ministries, but it is important to define which ministries are necessary, which are necessary and not to enter into the story of opening new ministries to satisfy political options, and this government has not done so, which is very good. There have been a lot of words today about the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia over the past year and I want to say that we are in general satisfied with the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia over the past year, but I also want to add that unfortunately there are many accumulated years of problems in Serbia and that it can always be better and more. I also want to say that the problem of this government is that the moment it was formed, when it was established, it should be realistic and should be said, because it was relatively low expectations of citizens from this Government of the Republic of Serbia. One year after the constitution and formation, following the results that are present, which are extremely visible and recognizable, there are today high expectations of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Someone said in the debate today, and that is true, the scale is far up, and I think it is very important, that it is necessary for Serbia's future. This is about Serbia's future, and we expect this successful government to succeed after this week's election of new personnel, personal issues, the government continues to achieve the results that are of historic importance for Serbia. As for the SPS parliamentary club, I will say one sentence, but we will also talk about it during this week, we expect that the main objectives of this government, before European integration in the coming period, will be to stop the country's long-term economic downturn, improve citizens' living standards, new investments, new jobs, or reduce unemployment. I would say that it is not good for the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be seen in a simplified way and it is not good for us to observe and look through personal issues. No one disputes the fact that personal issues are very important and are important issues, but it is certainly important to define and define, it is important to name and select the most qualified people who will organise the system, the system that will produce certain results, but it is important to define the strategic interests of Serbia, define new goals, define what kind of Serbia we want and want and what it is we want and we can do to achieve these goals and we will talk about it this week. So we need to change Serbia for the better, to fundamentally change the system so that the state can function better. As far as the government's reconstruction is concerned, I'll agree, what we're talking about today is the first step that brings us into a fundamental reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Reconstruction, I want to say that it will be successful if there is a change for the better, and we believe in it deeply. What I also want to say, when it comes to the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is not imposed. When it comes to deadlines, there are no deadlines, because this government of the Republic of Serbia has defined as one of the goals of reconstruction defined certain terms, deadlines and everything is taking place in accordance with the objectives and deadlines defined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This reconstruction is not a cosmetic but a fundamental and fundamental one and aims to improve the results that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will feel, and we therefore agree that the work of each part of the body, or any part of the state administration, must be analysed. The cosmetic changes are certainly not good, but it is always a good open and correct conversation, a constructive conversation on the work of each minister and ministry individually. As far as ministers are concerned, we will talk about it during this week, but every minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia needs to take his job as a role in life, so it must behave, if someone is not doing well, of course it should and must be changed, and political parties, political options proposed by ministers, the general public, the professional public, the republican parliament, should monitor, assess, analyse the work of each minister, each ministry individually, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a whole. You know how, it's logical and it's the legitimate right of every political option to praise its personnel proposals and personal issues. We from the SPS parliamentary club will not do it today, and neither will we during the next days when we discuss concrete proposals for future ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, because we do not feel that this is necessary. It is far more important than what we are doing today and what we are going to do and what we are going to do during this week, improve and change for better citizens of Serbia. In front of this government are certainly important state affairs and it is good that this successful government gets additional power, it is good that this successful government gets an extra elan, an additional impulse in its work after receiving, I would say, historically getting a date to start negotiations. What I'm saying is, this government has political legitimacy and this political legitimacy will be confirmed in the voting day. This government is a government trusted by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The government also had the courage to do things and to work in the interests of Serbian citizens, not caring about losing its political rating. No fear of coming out in front of Serbian citizens, not with fairy tales, but with what is reality. So, not to say what the citizens would like to hear, but what is reality. It's not a question of whether someone's afraid of choices right now or not. The fundamental question is, are there state authorities, can the state authorities do their job faster and more efficiently, have the authority to make decisions on the next time period, because Serbia is expected to have a very important decision and business ahead of Serbia? The Socialist Party of course is not afraid of the election, as are our coalition partners. Surely that these elections would give them far more votes than the previous year, but we believe that the elections at this time are a bad solution for Serbia. Serbia currently needs political continuity, political stability, and economic recovery is needed. He's right, Mr. Vukic, when he said today - we should talk calmly. As far as plans and programmes are concerned, we will hear them during this week, I mean the plans and work programme of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period, and let the citizens know who they trust and who they don't, when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22033	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22034	I thank the President-in-Office, the Honorable Representative of the Government, since Mr. Minister is gone, nor does Mr. Vice-President, no matter, we will talk about the MPs and citizens of Serbia, since they obviously have other and more important things to do. During the election of the last government and the vote of the Ministry Act, I said that everything that Mensa sets up ministers and that they are the smartest in the world will not succeed in doing anything because the system as it is in Serbia and the organisation of state administration and ministries is such that it simply does not allow the most capable individuals to change anything. I think that's the case this time. Today we had a chance to maybe touch the tip of the iceberg when it comes to reforming the state administration, but that didn't happen. I wouldn't even comment during today's session. Speaking of peaks, like today, I think today is the top of wasting taxpayers' money. As I said, I think that in order to discuss constructively here, we should still talk about the system that is in force today, given that absolutely and completely rules what we of the League of Social Democrats have repeatedly repeated, which is bureaucratic centralism, and I think there is absolutely no change in the current legislative solution, or the Ministry Act. I don't think there's any reason for rescuers in the pool, hotels, cable workers, etc. people are employed by the ministries. Literally for each paper today you have to address the republican authorities, all inspections are republican and it is entirely irrelevant for citizens whether the minister went to Harvard, Yale, Stanford, or wherever he is, they will never meet him, but will therefore meet a “Peru scribe from the administrative department” and will wait for every paper for months. We talk about investors all the time, no investor will come to Serbia, when today for any more serious investment, to specify specifically here in the field of energy, it takes you 80 different papers to realize anything and it lasts for years. Also, I don't know if concrete people have been consulted in terms of the competence of these ministries, firstly we see each other changing the Ministry Act, and then they'll come out with concrete personnel solutions, I think it would be extremely good to maybe, that these specific experts are consulted on what should be in jurisdiction, because they, if nothing, for a year or two days as well as so far will be at the head of these ministries, so we should know what is even jurisdiction. In a year's time, as the average working age of our minister in Serbia is, I don't think you can even get acquainted with your associates, let alone do something, and big reforms are announced here. Last time it was the same story, trade and telecommunications, I really don't know what they have to do with each other, it's one ministry, spatial planning and mining is the same ministry, this has been quickly re-enacted, and the results of some political compromises that will, unfortunately, be lifted by all of us and the citizens of Serbia. This was an exceptional opportunity to maybe redefine the way jurisdiction is distributed without it being exclusively on the political and party key. All in all, we always advocate that Serbia must become a far more decentralised state, Belgrade is mentioned on the water, on the ground, in the air, while here in Belgrade is being built, the rest of the country is under water and I am glad that such large projects are being developed here, but I think there must start to be other levels of government besides local self-government and the province, because obviously this system does not work. Whoever comes to the head of these ministries won't be able to change anything at all. Mladjan Dinkic may also be the born brother of this other sheik from the United Arab Regions, but when foreign investors watch the course of this session, I don't think he'll come to Serbia either, or any other investor, especially when we spend the whole day where MPs and ministers deal with absolutely side issues. All in all, as noted, the whole of Serbia now stands for reconstruction. It's been going on for months, and I think it's gonna have to end right now because we have this level of public spending and this level of government interference in absolutely all spheres of life. Until a new government is elected, nothing can begin or be built or done. In particular, we in Vojvodina have a series of problems that require urgent solutions, from RTV to the fact that the roads are in a state where trucks land and fly people into houses, where security is at a very low level, where large public enterprises are being shut down, next to Elektrovodina, etc., but we'll talk about it some other time. Anyway, I think this has to be brought to an end urgently and let's see who are finally the gentlemen who will be leading the ministries in the next year for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22035	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22036	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, today's debate on the proposed law, on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, has literally distanced us from the essence of the proposed legislative solution, mostly for the reason that it campaigned mostly political, political struggle for as much political points as possible, which is, in any case, the completely legitimate right of every political organisation, every parliamentary club and every MP. However, it should be recalled that this is neither the first nor the last reconstruction, that it is neither the first nor the last law amending the previously applicable Ministry Act. That is exactly what those parties who are critical of the proposed legislative solution today did, and, to be honest, mainly criticise it unfounded. What should be essential is why this government with two headquarters parties, SNS and SPS, recognized the need for what we say today in a peorative way, by reshuffled the government, or by passing laws on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. First of all, the quality is that it is analysed in the continuity of the work of the Government, which in that analysis identifies all those phenomena to be responded to and through that identification find the best solutions, and I will remind you that from the very beginning of the SAA, together with the SNS, has been participating in terms of the highest degree of quality of what is coming to us, and that is exactly the reconstruction that we are talking about today. I think there's a lot that's been found to be good in that analysis, but we can't agree that everything is good, because always, compared to what's good, there is a better one. In particular, there are reasons where we, as a MP club of the SPS, could also make certain suggestions, above all suggestive of the quality solutions already given in the proposed legislative solution, which is, for example, the first suggestion that the environment is finally separated from the Ministry of Energy, i.e. the protection of the environment. Why? Simply because it is just the basic principle and the basic principle of the governing structure, together with us and the SNS and other coalition partners in the government, we think it is very important that this principle is so-called. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Of course, a lot has been achieved in this proposed legal solution, but not all. What is very important to point out is the fact that through the reconstruction of the Government, as regards the objectives achieved by reconstruction, it's just as proposed in the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, where we now have one divided ministry, where we have a quality in the sense that in the jurisdiction of the Justice Ministry, what is essential for justice is restored, which in fact completes exactly that so-called. Civil law or civil matter, and real-legal relations, i.e. property rights, have been restored, is what makes us something that we can look at better quality solutions than previous solutions. Of course there will be criticism and how much, however, there has been a lot of hypocrisis in these criticisms today. In particular, relative to the Ministry of Justice have been given quite flat-rate reviews, unfounded criticism, populism etc. Indeed, there is no room for the simple reason, which is precisely why they are the critics generators of the biggest problems in judicial reform. Those critics who have repeated the parrot's story over and over again can't go back a little bit, whether amnesia or not, I'm not sure, so that they remember their mistakes, when they literally experimented on living people, when suddenly 800 judges were first thrown out of justice, and then some houdinian method was returned, and then, thanks to the Constitutional Court's decision, which was the only thing they could do to verify, indeed, that all those who were through major errors in the re-election process or the election of judges had to be returned, led to the adverse consequences that the Serbian citizens suffer most. So today, by criticising this law through the prism of populism, through the prism of collecting political points, in no case can the quality of the legal solution that we are discussing today be challenged. The Socialist Party of Serbia will undoubtedly continue to persist consistently on what has been started, and this is that in addition to the programming goals, despite what is normally regulated today, which is precisely the organisation and work of the state authorities, in a particular case of ministries, it is also the other factor that is not a little less significant, not a little less important, and this is the choice of the best personal solutions, because responsibility for what is to be done in the future must be borne by the most competent, the most qualitative and the most professional personnel. In this direction, the government of the Republic of Serbia is doing its best to make such personal solutions happen, that is, to find such experts. I am convinced that, when we know that personal composition, this finding will be confirmed. Finally, I would like to point out that, in addition to what the head of the SPS parliamentary club, Mr Branko Ruzic said, we have to be more than likely today to bear in mind that today a technical issue of the normative arrangement of the ministries must be affirmed in the best possible way, and the best possible way is the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SPS and the SNS has come to what needs are just coming to, and these needs are felt by citizens. They require us to have ministries through which all jobs will be able to be done in the best and most qualitative way and what is within the competence of these ministries to be rational, professional and efficient. I am convinced that these principles are now respected and therefore the SPS Parliament Club will undoubtedly support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22037	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22038	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, there is no better evidence for the LDP's position to vote against this law, to be against this reconstruction in general than what has been happening all day. Here's a few examples. I think we'll finally be able to talk to Mr. Selakovic about examples and the essence of what it's all about. In the past hour, I've heard from the first Deputy Prime Minister and the president of your party, Alexander Vukic, that it was necessary to build a special Ministry of Ecology, but that it didn't happen at the moment, or that there was no force for such a thing. Now I heard from a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that the Ministry of Ecology should have been created, I ask you, I would have asked Mr. Vukic, in the meantime, he went away, which is why I am asking you, as the government's authorised representative -- why there is no special Ministry of Ecology in the Law in the ministries, or where it is not the political power to do such a thing. Where is this address that can't be won or overcome by two parties of the ruling coalition? Now it's just you, let me put it this way, more sterling partners, no more URS, which is now an excuse? Is that address, say, on Andric's wedding dress, or is the problem called Milan Bačević? Were these the problems we discussed yesterday at the meeting of the Serbian Progressive Party's General Committee? Let me tell you at first - I am not interested in the internal, personal and political relations in the Serbian Progressive Party as such, but I am very interested in it if they lead to the proposal for a law on ministries being unserious, funny, so superficial. Of course, Mr. Selakovic, that we didn't mean anything against those people who technically wrote this law. Mr. Cosic sat next to you almost all day, he sat in this parliament and in past councils, doing laws. Some laws we fixed with it, some were good, some were bad, but it's no problem, or it's no question whether they technically can write the law. Whether they'll justify this law, the Ministry Act or any other law that will have some kind of sentence. Only when there is no political decision and political will under this law, when it does not express the fundamental will to reform the state, to reform the way of opinion in the public administration, to reduce public administration, to make it more effective, so that it does not seem to be a description of the jurisdiction of each ministry with five, six, seven parameters, as if the state is all-powerful, and because it is all-powerful on paper, that is why it is so inefficient, but that it is modern, modern, liberal, so to speak, even in terms of the competence of the European government, then finally we get these nonsense that was quoted in the morning by Mr Jovanovic, but I could quote them in a few other places. Says Mr. Vukic, that may be one sentence, not Mr. Selakovic, almost the whole explanation is that. Here, I can show you, there's that part of the explanation of our law that talks about whether the public is involved, who's interested, etc. So you say in this proposal -- this law is made up in co-operation with representatives of interested authorities, which was achieved in the process of preparing this law. What does that mean, please, Mr. Selakovic? What kind of organs were they interested in? The government departments were interested, so you spoke to each other, and in the end you came to the conclusion that it was best to separate the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. When you make an explanation like this, it looks like the Ministry of Economy and Finance, that is, the economy and finance of the present. So, Mladjan Dinkic, president of the URS, came to you and other ministers and said – you see, I really don't think it's as effective to have the government and my ministry organized, and I suggest you separate the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Business and throw me out of the government at the same cost. Since none of us have since yesterday, of course Mr Dinkic has done so, but because you have not managed to make any other changes in the government, because you have each other politically, and I would say political blackmail, you have come to the point of making changes that you say are more or less technical, Mr Stefanovic has been telling all along that they are actually leading, this is a condition for essential, deep, biggest policy reconstruction in history, Mr Djordje Milicevic, deputy head of the SPS Group says that these are not just technical changes and that they are setting one model for all future governments, three minutes after which Mr Jovanovic of the same SPS says that these are more normative changes and that these are not only affecting the fundamentally. That's what we're worried about, Mr. Selakovic. That is why we think that Lazar Krstic, professor of the Faculty of Agriculture in Novi Sad, presented as a candidate for the Minister of Agriculture by Mr. Vukic, and they have no chance in this kind of organisation of the state. Imagine what a Baptist would look like, or any such profile, to someone who comes from such a business, and before that to an educational environment, what would this list of jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance or anyone else in the Ministry of Business look like? It's not a state, it's a Leviathan. It holds every pore of our lives and tries to reconstruct them. That is why neither ministers Margaret Thatcher nor ministers in Blair's government can help, no matter how successful they were in some other times, in another different country, in a different era, and no matter how personally, professionally, politically, at least some of them ended up in an infamous manner in those systems they worked in. That's why it was so important to say what the contents of that change were. Of course, the problem is if for 20 or 25 years you've been leading, creating, or at least clapping and supporting the wrong policy. Of course none of us are crazy and won't appreciate it if you say today that you've made a mistake, but where's the ability to take a step further today? All of us must be learning and reading something in our lives. So many stories about these British examples, so when the laborers were so disastrously lost in the late '70s and early '80s, they realized the same thing you understood in 2007 or 2008, that they couldn't do it anymore, so they changed politics. They didn't talk for the next 20 years about how they changed politics and gave up some old principles, but they took another three steps forward compared to what Thatcher did for 13 or 14 years. That's what you're expected to do. There's no such thing here, Mr. Selakovic. Don't talk about whether democracy or autocracy when there are multiple-party elections. Yesterday on the board of directors, you said that you now want to make up for everything that's been missed in 25 years of bad politics. First, the people were not 25 years old, there was a government that worked from 2001 to the end of 2003, which was very reforming and the first one tried to change a whole series of things, which had a clear concept. Your Prime Minister Dacic said yesterday -- neither did Zoran Djindjic speak the ministers' names ten days ago. At first, that's not true. Ask Mr Djelic here when he first spoke here in late 2000 and early 2001, more than ten days earlier, it was known who the ministers were. He received a mandate on January 22nd 2001 from the Prime Minister, left the meeting and said how many members of the government and what the foundations of its programme were, on January 24th he took the candidates for ministers to review, and Serbia received the reform government on 25th. What's the resemblance between that and what you're doing, Mr. Selakovic? When we were 25, 20 years old, we had a neat election of dozens of parties, a multiparty system, and all of which you say today, and most of them with the right to make catastrophic mistakes, that they've lazy society, that there's been no political and any other condition in society, that we've been terribly behind in some elections, Mr. Selakovic, or at least they've had some sort of majority of them sneered through some coalition in this congregation, and yet they've brought the country there. So, it's not about whether you have a majority and whether you have support, but it's about what support you want to use it for and whether you're going to make a system, personal popularity, party popularity, make a system that will work independently of you personally or from some next ruling set or you won't do it. If you don't, then this is the same thing as 2011, before that 2008, I don't know what year, no matter what ours, yours or any of the parties in this country are called. That's why it's amazing there's no Prime Minister here today. That's amazing. This isn't a technical act. Mr. Vukic was here in one part of the session, but mostly he talked about what he personally thought, what he himself wanted. Do you mind if that part is so different from the way your other party colleagues have spoken personally in the afternoon session? How is such a country going to function, how will it work no matter how much the majority works next week? You say in this bill that you actually want to group jobs by similarity, and then you separate two of the most similar groups of jobs that are related to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Business. There's nothing in this law beyond that change. There are some other small responsibilities for your ministry and something the Foreign Ministry will be doing. I don't even know what Mr. Mr. Mrkic's been doing so far, and I can't imagine what he'll do in the future. You've raised a scale so high yourself. You think when you say the opposition didn't put enough pressure on you and make you do the reconstruction, you did it yourself, that you commended yourself. No, when the reconstruction ends like this, you've destroyed yourself, you've ruined yourself, because that means you haven't been able to implement a part of what you wanted. These are questions you cannot answer, Mr Selakovic, in this House and this is not my personal remark to you. You're neither prime minister nor head of your own party, you're not someone who decided what this law and the reconstruction of the government would look like in the end. I asked you some questions. Try to answer them. That's the only thing that'll make sense. Otherwise, we'll spend more weeks discussing it with both SPS and SNS vice presidents, one and the other party president, and you can solve it either between yourself in the government, because you can't solve it, which is why, Mr. Selakovic, it's better if we went to the elections now than we're going to go to them in December. It's a key cost to this country. Put your trust in the polls. Key trust is on the stock market and where our government papers are purchased. The last time you managed to sell five-year papers was 7%, and ten days ago, three-year records were a little over a third. That's the worst indicator of the government's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22039	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22040	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been paying attention to the presentation of my predecessor and I can say that he's been inconsistencies in some things, too. I respect something he said and I can express as Minister of Justice and State Administration and someone who is both a professional person and takes care of the functioning of the state administration and someone of his own opinion. If you have a problem, and this problem is becoming serious and large, then you have to follow the genealogy of this problem, as doctors do in the disease, and the disease in the Serbian state administration system starts the moment when a little more than a decade ago its political beginnings, you better say political feud and its tampering into unnatural continents, it starts bloated, slowly, and then it comes to the proportions that have occurred. You started off with a story about the lack of a Ministry of Environmental Protection. Indeed, and what the first Deputy Prime Minister said, what a number of MPs said here stands, but this is not the only lack of a valid Ministry Act. There are more of those shortcomings. But as a man who is experienced in politics, which is one of the most conscientious MPs, you know very well that unfortunately in Serbia, the concept of the Ministry Act in the past 23, 24 years is the notion of a superior pair of excellencies of the political issue. In parallel practice in some countries there is a Law on the Ministry which is at the level of the Constitutional Law or even the number and name of all ministries is established in the Constitution itself. They could not or could not be subject to political trade when forming new governments. Are there inconsistencies in the applicable law here? There are. Are there any amendments and additions laws in the proposal? I don't think they exist and they're being removed. Is that a big enough step to overcome this problem? We'll agree, it's not. Is the step leading to that? Yes, it is. Here's an obvious example. You yourself mentioned that in addition to the separation of finance and economics, this law concerns both the precision and the addition of certain responsibilities from the Department of Justice and the State Administration. So, let's say, after the signing of the Belgrade Agreement and the transfer of certain responsibilities from the state level to the republican level, there was a normative regulation of property, property legal relations and other real rights, it moved from the level of the federal justice ministry to the republican level to the Ministry of Finance, to me somewhat unnatural. We're bringing him back here now. As effectively verifiable, the same case, it was not transmitted, but it was the same case that it wasn't where it was supposed to be, let's say, there was no analysis of the effects of the regulation, so the analysis of the effects of the regulations was carried out by the Ministry of Finance. Why? Because of some World Bank program that was brought into that ministry. In many Western democracies countries, when the influence of the Ministry of Justice, as it was in our time, is formally reduced to a minimum, when it comes to the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice, or justice, is transformed into the main normist in the system of state administration. It is natural for that jurisdiction somewhere to be an analysis of the effects of regulations, not only financial analysis but comprehensive, to be in the ministry. You can't tell me that there is a ministry in this government where, as with some mythical being, different responsibilities are collected, as was the ministry, and then, as long as you just say the name - the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the State Administration and local self-government or the Ministry of Faith and Diaspora. What does that have to do with each other? But these were all ministries that existed in Serbia, because such was the ruling political will, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture and Trade. I say again, you look at the genealogy, and you see how the ministries were made and how it went. As a minister who deals with and an organisation in which the work and organisation and the system of functioning of the state administration are, I don't think that's good. I think we have to strive to have one fixed number of ministries, to be ministries of acting jurisdiction that won't change as most of them step into office. But it takes a broad social consensus and a clear political will. It's not easy to get to. You can't, after years or decades of practice, get into a situation to change it overnight. You called the government in 2001. If there was such a political will at the time to do such a good thing for the entire state administration, it would probably have been done, but it wasn't done just because it was extremely difficult. 24 years ago, the Serbian Justice Ministry had a total of 80 employees. Today there are 164 of them. I guarantee that 24 years ago that ministry had much stronger personnel potential than it has today. I'm the head of that ministry. I was met by the men who escorted my predecessor, and probably escorted her predecessor. Our public administration, globally speaking, is in an extremely difficult state, but it's a disease that it's been pulling for two decades and resulting in a lot of things. It will certainly be one of the main subjects of our interest and work in this future period, therefore, through changes and additions or the adoption of a brand-new Ministry Act. As I said, I advocate that we have ministries whose work will not be changed from government to government, that we establish their number, that we also base their powers and that it is something that we will all agree on, but that requires a clear political will. You cannot expect to propose to the Assembly a law that you know will not be adopted. What's this all about? By the way, when I say - there was a conflict, you called people from a single parliamentary group, from a political party, who expressed conflicting views, whether or not a ministry should exist. Yeah, you quoted, nothing malicious, one said you should, the other said you shouldn't. I think that's the way to go. Is that what we should be trying to do? That's what we should be trying to do. We should strive to have our powers clearly defined, and sometimes here, whether it was, we have to admit, whether it was a one-party or a multi-party system, like this or something, in that area, there was some order. It's hard to get it back on track. I think this law can be passed. Is he perfect? Is he the best? It's not the best, but at this point it's real. Let's take it one step at a time. We have defined here the better powers of this ministry that are now being divided into two ministries, which is why the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration is being mentioned, because, in time, some of the responsibilities that belonged to that ministry have been transferred to another, specifically, the Ministry of Finance. Now they're back here, otherwise there wouldn't be any reason for the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration to be mentioned. Professor Samardzic spoke about the public administration's concentration in one place and I agree. This ministry of justice, which has been called the Ministry of Justice since the early 1990s, has also done jobs from the work of the circle not only of justice, but also of administration, state administration and local self-government. His name didn't paint it, but all those jobs were concentrated right there. Someone would say maybe regional development should be in the economy. There are different models that may need to be a grouped business of the state administration concentrated in certain ministries, but this law has been a couple of excellent political issues in Serbia for 20 and more years and what political will is being achieved, it is pictured by this ministry. We can have a debate whether it's good or not. I, both professionally and personally, think that this may not be good, but this has proved to be a practice of Central European and Eastern European countries that have been going through this one period of establishing their multi-party parliamentary system, as something that they have been going through more or less. I am convinced that we too will go faster in the period ahead of us through this stage and that we will establish a system where the continuity of institutions, the continuity of jurisdiction, the continuity of the workarounds will be known. Therefore, I would not say that this law is neither unserious, nor ridiculous, nor politically superficial, but a bill on amendments and additions is a step further towards establishing a better system. You can say you expected more, you can say it could've been better, I'm sure it would've been better. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22041	Thank you. Mr. Korach, you wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22042	Without any desire to enter the controversy, since you mentioned that 2001 government, just to defend something. (President: I would just like to ask you to say which member of the Rules of Procedure you are advertising. ) Article 127, dignity. He said there was no political will. It's perfectly correct, I have no intention of fighting. What you said is correct, but it's in one country that has completed its transformation process and represents some kind of stable state. You called on another country that was stable, but it was a one-party state, completely fixed, it had both good and bad sides. In 2001, the government had to decide on various matters. You often form a ministry to finish some work that was needed in a country that starts a real transition. Example, do you have the Ministry of Information? Yes, if you have to pass a law on the availability of information of public importance, the Law on Broadcasting, etc. The Ministry of Faith, most European countries do not have it, but because they do not change the law on religion, the small ones do. Here, I will ask you a question – do most European countries have the Ministry of European Integration, the countries that are in the EU? You're forming a ministry because it's a serious, huge job that the state has to do. The Ministry is the bearer of this business. I'm just making one remark. When you're saying they're changing, it's true that there are political settlements and there were also nadal ministries and sometimes the ministries were invented, so someone would get their position in power, so they were targeted to be a minister without a portfolio. The point is that some of these ministries were formed because it was a huge job that had to be done and that ministry had the task of doing it. After that, when this job was done, actually the ministry had no reason to exist anymore. The second is your ministry, it's a permanent ministry, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the work, the way it works, it's something that changes. But the previous governments, and that government I was in, were built because some work had to be done. Once again I ask the question – do the European countries have the Ministry of European Integration, does Germany have, does England? He may have one, but he'd have to have some kind of explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22043	Mr. Koraq, it's my duty to tell you that we cannot replicate when we report for damage to the Rules of Procedure. Minister Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22044	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, without wanting to contradict what you said, there are the number of ministries present in every multi-party parliamentary democracy. I am just talking about the fact that in the previous period, jobs from the section of these ministries have been shared and added where they were not "naturally" in place. This government that you and I mentioned had the Ministry of Privatisation and is indisputable, in a ownership transformation, in a transition society, it is one job that needs more attention. We can lead the controversy about how it worked, whether it worked well, whether it worked badly, it was formed somewhere at the expense of a ministry that unfortunately no longer exists, and sometimes there was, which today might not have anything to deal with, which was the Ministry of Industry, because decades earlier, there was a Ministry of Industry in Serbia. That's exactly what I was talking about. I wasn't talking about ad hoc jobs in one period. We had the Ministry of Economic Relations with abroad, so we don't have it anymore. We have the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade. I was talking about these ministries where, as I said earlier, you had diaspora and faith in one ministry, you had human, minority rights, state administration and local self-government again in one ministry. Why? Because at that point there was a political will to add some jobs to one place, where you will rarely find an example of a country that exists, as you said, of the European Integration Ministry. I completely agree with you. There are no states that have already reached that level, the level of European integration, because they do not need it as a special ministry, but I said that at that moment, we can agree by following the history of our parliamentaryism, that before 2001 you did not have a government case in those ten years, a government in which there were 15, 16, 17 or 18 parties. Maybe it was, maybe it wasn't, I don't remember it being that big a number. That then resulted in something like that. It didn't happen, it didn't happen. It didn't happen. It didn't happen. It didn't happen. I'm saying, something that's been arranged for the state, which we need to pursue, this law on amendments and amendments to the law is a small step towards it. Is that something epic, big? No, but for something bigger, something more epic, something better, it takes greater political will and broader consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22045	Bojan Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22046	I know, Mr. Selakovic, but we're talking serious things, and the country is in a serious moment. Well, don't do it like that, for some more serious and large things it takes more political will. Who's against sharper reforms? Say it. So I'm telling you, it's more fair that you go to the election, that we all go to the election. Let's say what we want between the state and the ministry, and then I guess they're making a government of those political groups and the options they agree on, or at least they're similar. Who's causing you a problem? We've established for the Ministry of Ecology that there's no problem between one part of the SNS and the SPS, as far as I can tell. Then what's the problem? I asked very directly. Is the problem of Milan Bačević's political position, someone behind him? There's ten more cases like that, so I'm not going in a row. So I'm telling you, you're not the best representative for this point. This is a political question. I think it is a political issue and because it has been so for the last twenty and a few years, and by its own nature it is political, because you overestimate the importance of the state administration in the narrow sense of words in reforms. In a country that's so devastated, real reforms, those deep reforms in society, in understanding they come from political frameworks, circles, and then eventually they are carried out by less or more capable, safe, numerous state bureaucrats. So don't tell me, Mr. Selakovic. You say, Mr. Vukic says that -- we want to reduce the deficit, we want to reduce borrowing, repack debt, change the structure of public enterprises. So did bureaucrats in the government, in one, the other or third ministry, make a deficit of nearly two billion euros, or is it due to the fact that the state can no longer produce anything? To trample here for years private property and private initiative, as the uncontested most healthy source and personal and social wealth. It's not the director of the Public Debt Administration's fault. He tries and relatively manages to sell those papers, but he can't do it on behalf of a country that falls apart like this. And it's the politicians who are to blame for this breakup. And that's why my argument, Mr. Selakovic, was like this, and that's why I insisted on this one case because I think he might also show the general model of your concept of government reconstruction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22047	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stoimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22048	Dear colleagues and colleagues make their small contribution to this debate, which began very badly this morning, and there was also a statement that this division of Dinkic is in half, that this is a law on the reconstruction of the government, and we finally came to the conclusion that these are only amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. The question asked by colleagues by Bojan Djuric is very interesting, related to the Ministry of Ecology. Here I agree that it should be in this proposal to amend and supplement the Ministry of Ecology. But that's my personal opinion. Someone's gonna say it, so Borko suggested it. So what if he suggested Borko. For every well-intentioned idea, I'm always ready to accept it. I have another vision. In my opinion, the Ministry of Education, Science, Technological Development of Information, etc., I would have shared at the Ministry of Education and Education, because long ago education was kicked out of our schools. Especially would be the Ministry of Science. But I'm saying, that's my personal opinion. There are 250 of us here, if we were all to get that freedom to make a proposal for the ministries in the government, I believe there would be two MPs who would give the exact same proposal, especially if we were to give a description of the jobs of those ministries that they should carry out. My colleagues from the SPS, as well as my colleague Vukic, namely one of them, were of the opinion that the Ministry of Ecology should have been introduced. But these are their private opinions, just like my individual opinion. Those who created this law, i.e. who had the power to propose this law, were not able to make something that was maximum, but at these times made an optimal solution, means a solution that, with certain limitations, provides an opportunity to achieve something that is common. Also related to this efficiency of the government. Many of you, and many in my party, say, the government will be more effective if there are fewer ministries. That's not true. The number of ministries does not determine the efficiency of the government at all. The government is as effective as it is capable of achieving the goals it has set. None of us or any of our citizens would mind if the government that has 20 and 30 ministers survived if they lived much better. It is therefore up to us to declare the law, i.e. amendments to the Ministry Act that are on the agenda today. In addition, some MPs here have proposed personal solutions. Well, personal solutions should show the one who got the mandate to put the government together, that's the prime minister. It is his right to elect his associates to form a team of ministers with whom he will work. Normally, with the consent and co-operation of their coalition partners. I am convinced that on a timely day when the prime minister is here on the agenda, the debate on the government will present a proposal for members of the government and that each of them will be ready to answer all our questions and take part in the responsibility for the ministry they accept. Those remarks regarding why we didn't immediately call the election. Many times it has been said that we have been guided by the fact that at this point we have a much more important interest in Serbia than our party interest, no matter how popular our popularity is for various surveys in the electoral body. Finally, I hope that today we will be able to successfully complete this debate on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, and that in the coming days we will continue to discuss the new government and that we will be even more concrete there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22049	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22050	Dear Presidency, distinguished representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, above the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministry, I would first declare what I believe to be its political essence and the result of the political process it formalises. United regions of Serbia are no longer in the government of the Republic of Serbia. The URS parliamentary group is no longer part of the government's parliamentary majority and will be an opposition to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the URS have never been, nor will it now, nor can they be an opposition to Serbia. Although there is one tendency that this proposed law is interpreted primarily in one system key as beyond current issues and political processes, I am not inclined to see it that way. Although it is in this spirit that we have essential remarks that we believe that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance cannot be separated at least during a crisis period. We view it as Europe's most brutal economic traditions. The crisis confirmed the necessity of state subventionism of Interventionism and that it is not possible to carry out this in a harmless manner without deep coordination with the Ministry of Finance, just as serious fiscal plans during the crisis period cannot be made without direct, direct, competent insight into economic issues even during a crisis period. But we will leave this topic to discuss in particular, on which we will make our own concrete proposals. What remains a central topic is what I have discussed and started. The URS, which had just been mentioned by the concerned ministry, and now divided and belonged, had never hidden the fact that the largest party in the Government of the Republic of Serbia since its founding, that we were actually invited to this government, we have repeatedly indicated that our votes in parliament are not deciding and that the government's parliamentary majority and without the URIs are sufficient votes to make decisions and laws that they want to make. Therefore, when the prime minister who invited us to the government thanked us for our co-operation so far, we made it clear that there is absolutely no drama in the URS, nor are we hurt, nor are we angry, nor are we offended. The word immediately fell that we would be a constructive opposition. Although the word "opposition" in Serbian is fully accepted and we understand it perfectly, I fear that the word "constructive" still does not have a full agreement on what it would have meant. To clarify, the constructive character of the URS means that we will lead a principled, or programming policy, part of it and those remarks from the beginning that we will not be opposition to Serbia, that we will not base our views on personal issues and we will not determine ourselves according to legal proposals and ideas depending on what they come from, but on how these issues arise in relation to the URS programme, how we in principle, ideologically and programically respond to these topics. If this is unclear, I would explain to someone a concrete example, so that it wouldn't be, since the examples are always concrete, offended, I'll take a personal example. It is known, I believe that during the election campaign as a candidate for MP on the list of the URS, I signed the programme platform "The Turnover", although the LDP and the SPO authors of the platform were competitors in the same election race, it was not difficult for me, just as no one had objected to it in the URS. Why? Because unlike seeing it as just one of the possible political platforms, we had a clear awareness that it was not one of the possible political platforms, but the only framework in which Serbia's policy would take place. That is why I did not find it difficult to vote in favour of the legislative proposals proposed by the SNS and the SPS, whether it is a new KIM resolution, whether it is a Brussels Agreement, whether it is a whole package of laws on the accelerated European integration of Serbia. It is actually the spirit of the same platform that I signed when I signed the platform "The Turnover", regardless of what one text was written by representatives of one party and political options, and then the legislative proposals were proposed by representatives of other parties. It is about principles and a political programme, that Belgrade and Serbia must stop nursing the KIM problem, that for their own perspective they must approach the international community's problem on their own soil, and in the interest of faster European integration and Serbia's progress and in the interest of its future and generations to come. Any proposal from the government of the Republic of Serbia that is in this key comes to the National Assembly's menu, certainly, will have the support of the URS. We, however, have certain concerns. I'm worried. Since October 2000, since the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, in particular, and after obtaining candidate status and expecting the start date of Serbia's EU accession negotiations, all relevant political developments in Serbia have a European context. Just as the ongoing reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, whether we want it or not, its creators want to write that meaning or not, must also be understood in a European context. We have thus far participated in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We knew that in this heterogeneous, large-scale coalition, the URS represents the only political party of the majority government that is engaged in a very real European political context. Of all the parties of the government's majority, the URS are the only player of the European political scene, since we are full members of the EPP of the European People's Party, the European families of the political parties of the moderate right. It seems to me that this was a clear sign because of the unpleasant experiences and memories of the 1990s individual parties of the government coalition, that it was not the government that was building its unity on the common political past, but rather the presence of the URS was a sign that it was the government that was building its unity and its policy on a common perception of Serbia's European future. After thanking the U.S.S. for participating in the work of the government, I don't know how this is going to look. Second, an even greater concern is that we note that in political life Serbia is growing the level of political monologue and dialogue is disappearing, as is the space and condition of the democratic process in improving all life issues and topics. Contrary to the monologue, the URS will now, with the gratitude that we had the opportunity to bear this burden, decommissioning the burden of responsibility for participation in the government, be able to devote more time to fostering political dialogue in Serbia's democratic political practice. We look forward to Mr Dinkic, Mrs Susan Grubjesic and Mrs Verica Kalanovic in the parliamentary benches, with congratulations on everything they have done and the note that the URS wants to be an opposition to the government of the Republic of Serbia, but never to the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all villages, towns, landscapes where they live.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22051	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22052	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, today's proposal to amend and supplement the Law in which practically part of the finance and part of the economy are divided into special ministries should come across the general support of all MPs for the simple reason that we are already operating in the two assembly committees that are separated. One is the Committee on Budget and Public Consumption, and the other is the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. What all the members of the board that I am chairing have been concerned with business, have had the opportunity to see, are the report of the Privatisation Agency, these are areas that practically this ministry has only dealt with, because there was no time in one developmental direction to deal with and develop tourism, by resolving social enterprises, which have not yet been privatised, the issue of privatisation that must be completed by the end of 2013, which we have committed ourselves to, the development projects that will be financed by the EU, and now practically through this amendment and the addition of the law, through the establishment of the Ministry of Economy, we will have the opportunity to deal seriously with all these problems. One of the biggest problems in society is companies in restructuring, where in some ways the essential state has a certain obligation. But on the other hand, we have a big problem, for the simple reason that these companies are going down, living on the basis of what the state gives them, and we haven't done anything to keep them alone financially, and we're putting them on the market where they could function on their own. It's a big deal, because these 170 wolf restructuring companies are a large number of people who practically live on the edge of existence, in one uncertainty, whether they will be sold or eventually become state property. What is important is to say, that the meetings of the two committees were held jointly, precisely because there were different initiatives and trade unions and the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, and the Union of Employers, that many of the burning problems in society, which are reforms in the economy itself, public sector reforms, were in some way constructively trying to resolve themselves by the end of this year, putting a platform in a programme that we will be able to share through a political consensus, which was the first and basic condition for this solution to come to an end. What is ultimately important to say is that here some opposition parties have heard that these changes and additions did not pay attention to industrial development and that there was no mention of industrial development anywhere, it should only be said that precisely the enterprises that are in the restructuring phase and we in the Serbian Parliament had a public hearing on the topic of solving problems in the metal industry, essentially show that the current economy is based on over 60% on the service sector, and that those other 40% go to the goods manufacturing sector. This is the problem in which in one discontinuity Serbia has found itself in a matter of industrial production simply in this privatisation, which in some ways has not been done adequately, in the last 10, 12 years, and with all the economic problems Serbia has had, it has proved necessary for the ministry to take care of itself essentially and deal with all these problems. It should also be welcomed that the justice ministry will take this part of which the finance and business ministry has dealt with in terms of assets that will certainly be defined at the end of this year. What should be pointed out is that public sector reform is one of the most difficult tasks that awaits us and that, according to the statistics of the Republic of Serbia, about 600,000 people work in the public sector, which includes state administration and public enterprises, 300 000 have entrepreneurs, 300 000 work as agricultural producers. It should be said that 900,000 people work practically in the economy. What's interesting is that it's a gray zone. It is estimated that around 500,000 people are operating on the gray market, that is to say, obtain certain monthly incomes, which are really high-ranking, and do not pay any taxes to the state and are not reported anywhere. It is a problem that is not only a problem for Serbia, but also for countries in the region, but also for Serbia to face. If we wanted to reform the economy and reform the Pension Fund, all of a sudden, and reform the enterprises in restructuring, it would come to the fact that, in an unprepared investment environment, many people remain practically without a single income, it simply cannot be allowed by the state. That is why, ultimately and supporting this amendment and supplementing the law is the separation of one ministry in two and the separation of competences and it should be welcomed, supported by all these young people who will come and practically lead these ministries, relieved of those problems that we have in terms of party division in terms of certain prejudices, which ultimately and in the business itself. What I would ultimately like to give you as some of my visions, which is a lot we've heard about changes and additions to laws and the need to form a new Ministry of Ecology, I'd call it a little more professionally, in terms of environmental protection, because it's a broader concept than environmentalism, but what we're expecting, it's the opening of chapter 27 in just three years. In those three years, we need to prepare certain legal solutions to open this chapter. This parliament will play a big part in this. So far, about 230 legislative proposals have passed this assembly call, and in order to reach the opening of Chapter 27, there will be a need to change about 30% of the total legislation with 500 other legal and sublegal acts to discuss Chapter 27. What's important to say is that now is not the time to single out a special ministry for these needs, for the simple reason that we not only have in three ministries, but in five, we touch this chapter on different topics. As a result, in some EU countries there is no Ministry of Environmental Protection, in our neighbourhood it was related to the protection of the environment as an orphan, no one will. Why? Because it costs a lot, and that's what's very important to say, that's the economic category of society, that's one. Two, as far as environmental protection is concerned, it is now moving to a higher level in the EU-developed countries, so-called. "Green Economy". Therefore, if the EU countries opened such a ministry, it would be called the green economy ministry. What we do, which is to prepare expert teams, expert groups, together with all representatives of state institutions, if you want to deal seriously with any segment of society, even if it's environmental protection, then it's the only way. Although this is not the time yet, it should be prepared in an adequate way and then put in one place all that is needed to open one chapter. After all, my colleagues who have made certain proposals for their opinions, so I have singled out my opinion on environmental protection, and I believe that at this point they amend and supplement the Ministry Act quite acceptable for this moment, which, politically, in which we have to do a lot of things on the implementation of the Brussels Agreement, and on the restructuring of the public sector, means enterprises in restructuring and on certain reforms, and even a pension fund, that is to say, create an environment in which pension funds will be able to function as a semi-form of investment funds, such as that of EU countries. In the end, I think all MPs should support all amendments and additions. It is logical that the opposition has no interest in supporting the position of such legal solutions, but for the sake of reaching consensus on certain issues, I have now raised the issue of environmental protection, but I think that the issue of business also requires a general consensus on the adoption of certain measures, we have heard it from other parliamentary groups, I think it would be very useful and very smart to support such proposals because this is a first step towards achieving some success in terms of development, i.e. stopping the collapse of the Serbian economy, as much as bringing investors for development, to raise economic development, even if next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22053	Thank you. Bojan Đuric, a violation of the rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22054	Here, very soon, Mrs. Kovac. A 107th member was injured by the dignity of the Assembly. You did not react when Mrs Tomic said the opposition had no interest in supporting such a law even if it was good. It is simply an insult to the Assembly, above all to the LDP and then to the entire assembly. What makes you think the opposition has no interest? You said we had to reform the pension fund and it works in one part as some kind of investment fund or a set of different funds. If you had come before us with this initiative, we might have supported it, only then we find it strange that the government with the PUPS and Milan Krkobic is doing so. So that's what I'm telling you. Come, seek support, make government with those who agree with you in these key matters, and do not make government with those who are against it. That's why we can't support this law, because in it, for example, there's no millimeter chance of reforming the pension fund. I don't understand what kind of excuse that is. So there's no interest in the ruling coalition to make a good law, it would be the right formulation. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22055	Thank you. The People's Messenger Sinisha Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22056	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, first of all congratulations on this kind of courage and endurance that you have shown today, especially when considering the fact that Mr. Prime Minister was supposed to be sitting here today, I suppose he's packing for Brussels, for his tomorrow trip, and at the same time Mr. Vukic, who has honored us with his hour and a half and then again, carried on some of the state obligations that are far more important than sitting in parliament, probably left. I hope he's in Leskovac opening the Barbecue. I'd like to talk to him, especially about a degree of intimacy with the DSS, which I don't know anything about as a member of the presidency, but there may be things I don't know. After this kind of fallout and come forward, however you like, I can only ask a question -- when are we going to take it? I'd also be happy to take a hint with the thesis that all our objections are unfavorable. Dear friends, I believe there are 250 well-intentioned people in this House who, with their remarks, are always well-intentioned and always in Serbia's interest, and even when these objections are not correct, when they are wrong. A great American satirist of Jewish origin, Artur Buhvald, has one of his own humorous ones called "A Change of Bedding", in which he writes ingeniously, that only a Jew with autocinism towards his own nation can write humorously, and says – in a single barracks, in a single context. The SS officer enters the camp, the door opens with a bang and he says – bed sheets change, Jews rise from their beds, take bed linen, SS Strunban Firer adds - the barracks one change with the barracks two, the barracks three shifts with the barracks four. That's the kind of thing that's changed bed sheets. It seems to me that this reconstruction of ours is very similar to that of bed linen. This months-long seduction, modern spin, has only one meaning, and that's to avoid elections. What's wrong with the election? Let me ask you a rhetorical question. So they last much shorter than what's called reconstruction. At the same time, I think they're far more honest, far more democratic and far simpler... (Meho Omerovic, from the place: This is ridicule. I'm sorry, and what is mockery? Let me finish... (Meho Omerovic, from the scene: This is a mockery of Holocaust victims. What holocaust victims did I quote the Jew who wrote that humorous one? (Meho Omerovic, from the place: You attack and make fun of the Holocaust. Who attacks and makes fun of the Holocaust?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22057	Please, Mr. Kovacevic, continue exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22058	Let me speak, stop these rude throws.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22059	Please allow the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22060	Stop these totally stupid throws, please. What does that look like? My parents were killed in the holocaust. Don't defend the victims of the holocaust from me, please. It's offensive what you're doing. So, take away from me from this time, please, most kindly. What was even simpler, Mr. Selakovic? Well, if you had made a replacement, for the Minister of Agriculture to enter the office of the Minister of Culture, for the Minister of Culture to enter the cabinet of the Minister of Agriculture and vice versa. They know the drill, they know the system of values, and it would be far simpler. Six months here we've been listening to a story about the government's reconstruction to welcome tomorrow without knowing who the ministers are. Will you tell us? Let us, as MPs, tell us, please, who are the Ministers of Culture, who are the Ministers of Agriculture. The business of a few days has been wrapped in a veil of mystery and a veil of secrets with very many speculations, as if it were traded with heroin. Tabloids anti-cipirate, bookshops are opened, ministers, ministers, ministers, etc. So, in that principle of sports analogy, we're tired too, and we love sports. You know, we're tired of sports, pastimes, scales, etc. Just a year ago, it was said that the coalition before parliament and in front of Serbia is the best it has. Now suddenly we have a situation that's better than the best. Excepting some moves in the fight against corruption, the government has shown complete fiasco within a year. Open highways are measured by dozens of meters, but literally by dozens of meters. There's no investment. From that demographic restoration with which we so eloquently started our prime exposé here, nothing, literally nothing. Even members of the government, whom there are many younger than us, who have left only memories and warm air, have not tried to make at least their own example a small step in all this. You know, in nursing homes, beds don't scream, no matter how luxurious they are. So, Serbia is empty. Thirty thousand funerals more than birth. Those carpenters who make coffins have, and those who make cradles don't have bread to eat. The duchess is completely empty. Every other house is empty. About East Serbia not to talk. Schools are closing. So, if we're not here, there's nothing. And what happened in those years? Nothing, except that we are spinned with that sentence fantastic – structural or not know what kind of reconstruction. There was one more thing that came to pass, that in one historically incredibly short period, a cult of personality was created, and that's why I'm sorry that Mr. Vukic left. I'd be happy to take a detour with him, and I look forward to that half. This time I'm going to avoid talking about it because I think it's just not right to talk about when the man you're about to tell is obliged to fight this cult personality with his intellectual aorta, he's not here, and that cult personality is present, you're going to have to deal with me, my dear friends, to agree, there's a man with a laxative ease in this country who solves the problems of aflatoxin in milk, solves the problems of sick children, solves the problems of zoology and botanists, oaks, sports clubs, etc. So all that remains is for books to appear – the first vice president and medicinal herbs, the first vice president and bees. That's the case we had. In this meadow, dear friends, we have walked, and I really expect Mr. Vukic to have a controversy on the subject, and I'm really going to stop talking about it for a very simple reason, which is what civil courtesy tells me, and he's not here, and I'd like to take a look at all that. Here's the point, dear friends, in something else. So come out, my dear advances, to the election. Take your 60% and form power in both Belgrade and Serbia and take us towards this unspeakable horizon, according to these fantastic lights of Europe. Why don't you do it? Do you perhaps fear the historical court or the court of your people? We had a similar case when one party had that majority here, it had 180 MPs in parliament, so we saw how it ended – or there was not enough political, poetic, ethical or human potential. Why are elections so avoided? What's left? I'll finish it so my colleagues can talk. It remains to be sold to Kosovo, to surrender Kosovo, that for the first time in modern political history, one state will give up the works of its own territory, despite the opposition of its own countrymen, and then in the second part of next year we will have a reconstruction, only, dear Mr Meho, we will not change the sheets this time, but will change our underpants and socks. (President: Please, Mr Kovacevic, do not address the MP directly. I'm sorry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22061	Mr. Omerovic has the word. Here you go. Mr. Omerovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22062	I really thought that the esteemed colleague Kovacevic would stop with this "inspired exposure" and I didn't think I was responding, but in the end he mentioned my name with nothing. I think, Madam Chairman, that you have violated the Rules of Procedure because you have allowed the MP to quote, as he says, one humorous, in the most primitive, most vulgar, most embarrassing manner offends something that is the greatest disgrace of humanity that has happened in the past centuries, which is something called the Colloquial Holocaust. So by comparing the government's reconstruction with the bed sheets in concentration camps, in the barracks of these concentration camps, I think that every serious man is causing both fear and awe. I just don't have the words to comment on it. It is the greatest insult and shame for the dignity of what many of my fellow Members and fellow MPs have been calling all afternoon, it is the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22063	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Srdjan Shin, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22064	Dear Chairman, I think you hurt the Rules of Procedure by not asking a fellow MP after an intervention in the O.R. which is also a kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure, to ask him to really specify what he meant when he said it and to clearly separate that this metaphor he used could be understood in two ways. It can be understood in one way that this government is really a concentration camp and that it changes the sheets, and it can also be understood that it only talked about changing something else. I would ask a colleague, not just for the sacrifices his family suffered, but for the sacrifices that all people suffered during World War II and concentration camps, to really make it clear what he meant, to be very precise, and I don't think we should play with such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22065	Thank you. Mr. Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22066	I just need to abuse your attention for a few minutes. So it's hard to interpret art, you know. My quote is more than accurate, more than accurate. I called on a man who's Jewish. In the humorous change of bed linen, Mr. Shane, I know you're a Roma, and I know that your population, your people, I will express myself more precisely, has also suffered greatly. So it's about the unspeakable cynicism of a force that is capable of mocking and playing with the dead in such an unscrupulous way. It doesn't take too much intelligence to figure that out, you know, and this metaphor of mine was used in the context of something that meant nothing to do with the government. So a completely unnecessary change in dirty sheets, in which the system of values will return very quickly to the old ones, respecting even the fact that some new people are engaged. Young Lazar Kostic, whom I wish every happiness and every success, wants to be as successful as his denominator Lazo Pacu, comes from a well-organised socio-political and financial system into a karaoke, into a complete chaos. Will he have the strength to resist it? Will he have the strength to tell Mr Pavlovic - I won't? Then there is another rhetorical question, dear friends -- a system of values in the education of this country. You have six official state economic colleges from Saturday to Nis, with one respectable and long tradition. I believe that many of you may have finished those colleges or might be teaching on them. Several hundred university teachers from docents to emeritus teach at those colleges. What are you telling them with that fact? What do you say to those ambitious students whose averages are 10, or about 10, by bringing a man from the other side of the world who hasn't been here in nine years? My colleague said for a while, she won't be home for a month, her alley changes. (President: Time, Mr Kovacevic. Thank you very much, ma'am. I'm counting on your goodwill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22067	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Mihaylovich, Mr. Shine, you wanted a replica, I see you've signed up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22068	Dear Mr. Kovacevic, I understand that anyone can interpret art in one way or another. But I hope you understand me, too, that I didn't say that because I can't understand some work of art, maybe not as well as you, maybe not as well as some other people, but I'm telling you as a citizen of Serbia. Not as Roma, but who comes from a country where a large number of citizens of that state were killed because they belonged either to Serbs or Jews or to Roma. That is the only reason why I asked you to make clear what can be interpreted in different ways in the congregation in a very clear way and to send clear messages. If I understand you correctly, you have tried, perhaps not skillfully enough, to talk about that only form has been changed, not to mention, but the Serbian language is rich enough and Serbian literature is rich enough to define it in a clear way with its examples, and we do not have to enter such metaphors that can really lead to problems. Believe me, I'm the first one who wouldn't support a Nazi story in Serbia, who wouldn't support a story that's about the Holocaust, and that's my deep belief, and I believe that you think that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22069	Thank you. Mr. Kovacevic, since your discussion has caused a replica, I would ask you to hold on to this because we are away from the topic. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22070	Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing amendments and additions to the Ministry's Law, and in fact the subject of the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this law needs to be settled what is yet to come within a few days. As far as the law is concerned, I would like to say that these amendments and additions have made a certain improvement in terms of better systematization of the affairs of the state administration, in terms of what will be better efficiency of the work of the ministries, but certainly there are problems that these changes and additions have not been solved and that have been discussed here. It's clear every time a new government is made, or when it's an opportunity to reconstruct itself, it's the moment that, based on what they've been through, some improvement is made, and here it's done, but maybe not enough. After all, in the last government, we had this mega ministry, or giant ministries that included the competences of half the government, which made no sense or need, but it was a matter of agreement and the price of what could at that point in the coalition then agree. This is about a reconstruction that aims to inhale fresh air, to gather new strength which I am convinced will be done and it is quite certain that if that is the case, this reconstruction is justified. It is in a position of greater work, greater efficiency, faster reforms and better results expected from our government, although these results are certainly evident so far. This reconstruction is also structural, or organisational, it is both programming and personal, with the fact that the reconstruction was replaced by those ministers who had and what good results, such as Minister Knezevic at the Ministry of Agriculture, who had to pay the political price for what happened to milk in relation to aflatoxin. The whole affair was created in certain centres of power, for some of the interests of others, who knows what, and in any case, to Serbia and to the harm of peasants and producers. Or, let's say, Zarko Obradovic for stealing small graduation tests for which he and his associates are not directly guilty, because the theft was objectively blamed by the "Official Messenger" and "Profect Messenger". I wouldn't talk about it right now, but I certainly have to say that on the other hand, Minister Obradovic had very good results in the field of education, at least compared to the last twenty years in Serbia. Or the results of Minister Mrkonjic, who has done a lot, but not enough for lack of money, etc. We're talking here about an unsettled system in Serbia, but certainly it's on the agenda and trying to get many things sorted out and organized in a better way than yesterday, but it certainly does. The reconstruction is the result, above all, of the analysis, but also of the ruling majority's decisions to improve the situation. This is not the result of pressure from the opposition or dissatisfaction on the general plan in Serbia. It actually speaks of the responsibility of this government, this ruling coalition and the current government. The results of this government are evident. She's run in the same composition as she's been so far down the line of change. He knows where he's going, he has a vision. It will bring Serbia closer to who it should reach and who it may have been able to reach much earlier. Finally, in a year's time, this government has done more than anything since 2000, if we will measure time according to what is the coming of Serbia's democratic opposition to power. Finally, we wonder who brought Serbia to the start of negotiations with the EU? Certainly this government. For such a result on the political plan, but also on the economic plan, where things are moving for the better, it is certainly due to this government and ministers in it, but most of all Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and first Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, together. I'm apostrophysing this together, because it's certainly publicized that the two leaders mentioned are actually one giant tandem, which complements each other perfectly. I believe that the two together, as well as the other old ministers and the new ones who are about to arrive, should achieve what is good for Serbia in the future. I am autonomous and independent enough to express my own personal opinion that in the good part of the public we have that we are bothered by over-emphasizing or expansiveness, to use the expression in Serbian, the grandeur of one or the other leader or individual parties from the government, and this certainly does not contribute to the affirmation of the essence of the reconstruction that we have on the agenda, nor does it contribute to the improvement in future work. I would like to appeal that we must move on with more political wisdom and mutual trust. It will be good for Serbia and for the citizens, and that will certainly be what will contribute to achieving the goals we are facing and I believe that we are all looking in that direction, both the position and the opposition. This is a political arena where there is a fair fight, but often just for political points, and we don't have enough political honesty to talk fundamentally and properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22071	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22072	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues, perhaps what I'm about to tell someone about may seem to repeat some of the general places in political philosophy, but since the ministers here often worship us with their lectures on many things, I would like to say then something that might explain what our session today looked like and everything that was happening to us until now. The way the session was called is offensive. The way the ministers spoke is also offensive. Then there remains one conclusion that is known, that in the reforms of all the countries that have passed through the long-standing practice of the single-party system, the main problem remains the issue of the division of authorities and understanding and the division of authorities. To get used to the government being everything, that is, a party through the government, and that parliament and some other institutions are just a decor, they're just given out certain tasks, this habit of having power in the government alone is something that has dominated for 20 years with different successes and in our parliament. It is unimaginable that ministers do not know or want to know that they are chosen by the will of parliament, by the will of MPs, and because MPs as representatives of the people and bearers of sovereignty give authority to certain persons who are in that service to do certain tasks, that they can then control them and must control them, that they can criticise them and should be criticised, that they can replace them whenever Parliament wants them to, always. The opposite is not the case. Although there is a division of power, the hierarchy is known. It is unimaginable that ministers are threatening lawmakers who are criticizing. It is grotesque from the point of view of understanding democracy, as if ministers were speaking to an MP in the street – shame on you. It's inappropriate, it's a misunderstanding, where the minister thinks he's all power. The problem is that although there is a constitution and a division of powers and clear demarcation, it continues to try to distribute or redistribute political power through the executive authority, where all the power in the government is so much in this area so much as a jag for ministerial posts. When we get back to our problems in Serbia, what does it look like here? In Serbia, unfortunately, many social issues are still being reduced to political issues, so something we should solve as a society, because of our progress or survival, we leave it to political parties and then it remains exclusively a matter of political and social interest and that social interest is not seen, and then what is a political issue is very quickly reduced to a personal issue. What we had so-called. The reconstruction of the government, namely, has been announced as large, sometimes so to say social reconstruction which will enable fundamental changes in the society of reforms etc. Finally, it came down to one political guess within the coalition, and what is even worse, we have seen and we cannot hide it, that the problems are not only conflicts within the coalition, but conflicts within the parties, because in the end it all comes down to some personal issue somewhere. What we're going to come up with in the next few days will be a question -- what is this reconstruction that's different from getting the URS out of the government, from the coalition government, that's the only news that's happened. And then the question will be -- why was he removed, kicked out of the government of Dinkic? Someone's going to say, he was doing a bad job, he was saying bad things, so on and so forth, they failed the plan, the program. Okay, but if he's a failure, then how did he turn overnight into one of the main actors of the deputy committee that we expect so much from, and these are Arab Emirates, where will huge investments come from, etc.? So we see exactly what this is about, but we're creating a fog and we're dragging a soap opera like on television for six months, how that question will be resolved, who's going to be a minister, there was a huge drama and a terrible one. It's a waste of time and what's the worst thing that opens up is the basic question - can society be demoralized or not? Look, I'm not saying this by heart, and I don't want to say it out loud, but I have to say, that's not the kind of thing that's always been. Now we want to say that all the evil and all the nakaradas of society came sometime after October 5th. Mr. Chairman, I was sitting here in two parliaments as president, happening, then ministers could be MPs at the same time. Twice, I drove the Home Secretary out of the pay phone when he made some rude illusions at some members of the opposition, and when a minister of defence at the government's alliance attacked Vojislav Seselj, I threw him out of the Assembly with a session and asked him to be called off as a minister the next day, which was done. Sorry, those were some steps of democracy. We return to many elements, restore one time we do not want to say that it has passed and that it has been on one level that would have to be overcome, if we want to team up with the rest of the world and accept certain standards. We've already had a case here with the said minister, when we interrupted the government, in the way the minister treats the MPs. The minister can criticise the MPs, but he cannot threaten to send him to prison on criminal charges. Then the minister does not understand the laws or did not read them, the Law on the Assembly, the Law on the National Assembly, article 38, says the MP cannot be called to criminal responsibility for anything he has written or verbally stated in the Assembly. We stick to the law that this assembly has voted on, that's our foundation, that's serious questions. We had a minister who took pictures of parliament to display it on Twitter as some kind of gang of people who belong or aren't there, etc. Let's be polite once, at least in that elemental sense. Someone thinks someone should be intimidated here, so MPs can't make noises about ministers. He didn't. Who are your ministers? Who they think scares some great authority, visions, miracles, etc. If you want this Parliament to work, then we must stick to the Rules of Procedure and we must not convene sessions like this, because it is a scandal, and we must also stick to the elemental order of jurisdiction and know whose function or jurisdiction is. Otherwise, I don't see the sense that parliament exists, if it can't work that way. These are some of my objections to our work so far. I'll talk about the government, hopefully other colleagues when it comes to that, and that'll be in, hopefully, two, three days.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22073	Thank you. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22074	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, except when I really had to go out for a while, I closely followed Professor Micunović's presentation and I would look back on one thing that was the subject of controversy today, when I said something myself. Of course, I agree that members of the government should be respected, because of the institution we are in, and the institution is the National Assembly, as the most important body of government in the Republic of Serbia, to address with respect. I think in the past little more than a year, I've just been a witness to such behavior. Every behavior and decency has its own limits. With the highest respect of the National Assembly, I react even when false things are spoken here, or when a severe accusation is made that in every normal system of things would be held accountable. If you say someone was stealing, and there's absolutely no legal judgment behind it, then you've told the truth, and then you abuse the position of a MP who has the right to say such things, but in such a way, it destroys the institution he represents and sits in. For this very reason, I reacted as I reacted, and I am convinced that every supporter and lover of democracy and one who sincerely acts on its strengthening will react as well. But if you even accuse someone of stealing the election and ending the people's will without any evidence, without a single verdict, and if you're using a pay phone as an opportunity to repeat it several times and on several occasions, then it's a classic abuse, especially when you call someone with whom a representative of the government cooperates or suggested it to a certain function or is from his portfolio. That's why my reaction was because it's not the first time these things have been repeated. And in that sense, it's said, if someone has committed a crime, and you go to the prosecutor and pick up, ask, demand criminal charges, file it yourself, and don't come here in front of the cameras, say to the citizens, give a flat-rate review, do nothing to get it, get a court epilogue, or to initiate something like that, and on that side, I honestly support everything you've said. If I went somewhere in my own words to demean the reputation of the National Assembly, it was by no means my intention. You have been entrusted with parliamentaryism in Serbia. Give me one representative of the ministry who looked with such respect at the work of the constructive part of the opposition, accepting always good amendments, good solutions. Of course, the bearer will always say that all his solutions and all his amendments are good. More than two months ago, we had a law that was a great example. Of the 112 amendments submitted, 24 were accepted. Some were accepted during the session, some on board. We had laws that passed committees unanimously. I think that's commendable, too. And this is about respecting Parliament and the level of seriousness of work with which we approach work in parliament, but I have an opinion, I am confident, close to your opinion, that each of us, whether we are members of the Government or you as MPs, are building together the authority of an institution such as the National Assembly and we are tasked with raising its reputation in the eyes of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22075	According to the Rules of Procedure, Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22076	I'm sorry, Professor. Micunović, I won't be long. This is precisely because of our joint obligation to build and maintain the dignity of this House, I point to a violation of Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of this Assembly. I think that you were obliged, Mr Arsenovic, to warn the Minister of Justice that the dignity or respect of dignity in this House, according to our Rules of Procedure, can solely be taken into account by the President, or by the chairman of parliament, that this is not an obligation and the right of the minister, so that the minister will finally learn and never think of him trying to assess what is in line with the dignity of the National Assembly and what is not in line with the dignity of the National Assembly. The same was true of the morning session, when Mr Stefanovic led the session. So, the minister, any one, the minister of justice would have to know in particular, the minister of justice with such a professional background, even more so, that the minister has no right to assess whether someone has violated Parliament's dignity or parliamentary rules or has not done so. I'm glad to hear Mr. Selakovic says it's unwarranted, without evidence or without a court epilogue to accuse someone of stealing the election. Only this situation, Mr Selakovic, which Mr Jovanovic spoke of happened in 1996 and 1997. That's why court proceedings are under way. They ended, i.e. there was an election theft in some cases. After all, it was brought to the lex specialis that confirmed it. There are other cases where some parties, without evidence, or without a court epilogue, made such charges. In this he preceded, for example, the then president of your party – Tomislav Nikolic, after the May 2012 elections. So I understand that you have sharply criticised your own party and current President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22077	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. Therefore, it is even too high to explain why it is not, because Mr. Minister simply, to say, gave his vision to the presentation of the previous MP, Mr. Micunovic. I don't see any damage to the Rules of Procedure. If you think we should vote on it in the day of the vote, you should plead yes or no. Yeah. Okay. Mr. Minister, he had a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let me give Micunovic my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22078	I don't see why I caused a breach of the Rules of Procedure because I really didn't say that I was assessing what violated dignity or not, but about what you said, so the speaker who accused someone today of leading to an election theft mentioned the same story in 2001, that two days later, he apologized to the same man he mentioned today for then at the National Assembly session. So he apologized to him. I acted as someone who was protecting my associate, because I know something like that didn't happen. But you know, it's not the same as when criminal charges are filed against the NN perpetrators, and when you publicly call someone by name and by name that such things have been done, and there's not one single legal decision that speaks for it. So, not a single one. If there is, here, to find her and bring her here. Far from taking on the authority of one who chairs meetings of the National Assembly and appreciates whether or not something has violated the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly. That's why I say exactly what I said earlier and what I said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22079	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Micunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22080	Madam Chairman, I least expected the minister to apologize for this morning's outburst. Instead, he explained to us that he was caused by inaccuracy or whatever you want, accusations of injustice, etc. You could have simply said, I don't think that's true, and that would have ended the matter, but that's not how you reacted, it's how you reacted to the threats of what the MP said. So what worries me is that you don't realize that you've broken the law, you've just tried to do something illegal, try to charge or threaten to sue a criminal one MP for saying something. It says in the law that what you say, no matter how meaningful, right, incorrect, pointless, cannot be called to account. And that's why there's immunity, or there's immunity. So, the Institute of Immunity therefore exists that they could not be intimidated by MPs for what they say and in the way they declare themselves about anything. So that's the problem. I can see that it just doesn't come to your senses that it's not about whether or not someone said the right thing to do, it's about something that can't be done. That's the key question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22081	Thank you. The word is Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22082	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, apparently my words have not been carefully sent. I said I was sorry if I violated the reputation of the National Assembly, reputation, and dignity, even said that in the second half of my presentation. When I mentioned the criminal charges I didn't threaten, I said that if someone was involved in the election theft that it was for criminal charges. You know how, I know very well what I said. I said, that's not a threat, but if someone was involved in an election theft, election theft and such an accusation are for criminal charges. So if you're accusing someone of being involved in an election theft, then it's for criminal charges. That I said a little while ago that I apologized if I had violated the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly, and that's what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22083	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22084	The Honorable Chairman, Your Honor, General, thank you for giving me your word. It is also well-respected, Mr. Selakovic, that you have sent this proposal for a law on ministries, i.e. amendments to ministries. In my view, this proposal is a further step in terms of affirmation in the broader sense of the Serbian state and the nation. When I say so, I mean by modernising Serbia, which I'm going to say something about, which is run by the SNS, and one of the modernizations, one of the elements is the building of the system's institutions. It is this law, i.e. the amendments to this law, that is, to the construction of the institutions of the system of state authorities, or the authorities of the state administration. I don't have a problem with what gentlemen were saying today about the government's work in a year. It is not bad to say about the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia over the past year. But it's not just as good to bring up lies, especially from opposition MPs. One part I warn is that this is not the same composition as the National Assembly, which was back a year, or a year and a half. Here are some other MPs who serve their arguments. In that sense, let me say that the new Government is the Republic of Serbia, I will try to speak the language of the arguments, and if they are not true, I ask the opposition to deny me. The new government of the Republic of Serbia, in the context of this law last year, came to power in an empty, or ruined house led by the DS with its coalition partners. Let me say in what context the new government has taken over. She took over a country where the average salary was the lowest in the region. Mr. Chairman, may I proceed? I repeat this sentence. She took over the country where the average salary was lowest in the region, Bulgaria 375 euros, Romania 390, Croatia 800, Slovenia 1,000, Albania 380, BiH 450, Montenegro 530, Serbia 333, official 19.5, so during the 2012 elections. Unemployment is 25.6% of Europe's largest. Inflation 13%, the largest in Europe. Budget deficit 7.1%. Serbia's public debt is 17 billion euros. Health care according to the EU's assessment is the worst in Europe. The EU-rated judiciary is the worst in Europe. School destroyed and chaos. The unresolved problem of Kosovo and Metohija. Serbia's European perspective far away. Corruption is the largest in Serbia's history. So Serbia is destroyed and devastated. Gentlemen, I must remind you that the deficit on the day of the government's budget takeover was five months short of budget and euro 119,65. What the new government has done in a year in the context of this amendment to the law, let me say, and then I'll say why there's been a change of law. He's holding sessions regularly, not on the phone. You won't say, I guess it's not true. Government representatives are required, if not all, if not on the official road, every Thursday of the last month. You're not gonna say no. Get up and tell me if it's not true. A clearly expressed desire for the EU. What do you have to say? Thank you for confessing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22085	I ask the People's MPs to stick to your demands and demands. Just before you said that the MP had the right to say what he thought he needed to say. That's what I'm talking about. You can't look for one principle for you and another for others. You respect what you seek, and then you respect others. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22086	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you, gentlemen to the Members of Parliament who are in the way, for the political culture and the civilizational fluids you're exhibiting. Fifth, the fight against corruption is zero tolerance. What do you have to say about that? A more precisely identified role of the IMF in overcoming the current economic crisis. Improving economic co-operation with the Russian Federation. The initiative to open up to new markets in the world, the United Arab Emirates and other markets. Energy and agriculture. This government has recognised as strategic branches that can trigger a new investment cycle, i.e. total economic development. To this end, you have received data from MPs, the agricultural budget for 2013 is more productive in the conditions in which we live and announced new investments in energy, you have heard these days. For the first time in six years, a budget of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in this assembly on time. You're going to say that's not true, are you? The euro rate was 119,26, now 111 to 114,26. Law on public procurement passed. A more advanced Law on Public Enterprises has been passed. A deal with the United Arab Emirates on the resolution of eight Serbian agricultural enterprises. Export bigger, as you heard today. Industrial production increased. JAT Serbia's pride. Projects for the first time in Serbia's history, energy projects all in one book, and some have begun to be realized. Quick answer to parliamentary questions. You're not gonna say it's not true, are you? Serbia in international relations is better in a year than in the previous 20. They brought in a strategy to fight corruption. It was only part of the tasks, i.e. the accomplished tasks of this government of the Republic of Serbia. And what we have introduced into Serbia's policy, which you will never admit is that we do not act in a party way. You don't have to admit it. Our relationship with work, knowledge and efficiency is important to us. But if you'll excuse the MPs, I'm not going to listen to the sermons today from the president of the parliamentary group of one, who was only four, five hours in the year at the Assembly. He doesn't have the right to lecture. And we MPs go to modernization, I guess, the Assembly. You won't say our president of the assembly doesn't run a good assembly. That's what you admit to talking to me in four eyes, or coffee when we meet.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22087	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if you continue to throw away, I will have to apply the rules of the Rules of Procedure. So choose, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22088	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know they're in pain with the truth, but it's also true what I said when this government took over the government that the state was destroyed. But we have no problem affirming everyone, and those ministers who will be or who will not be if they are able to perform some tasks. I'll give you an example of a neighboring country. I don't like to mention the president of the neighbouring country, but he was right. It's about Franja Tudjman when she's the best international law expert, I apologize to the lawyers in this assembly, one of the best in the former Yugoslavia. You have a problem, gentlemen of the opposition, that I may not be telling the truth. Get up and tell me if I'm talking. When he told Mr. Šefarovic, the best international law expert, you will be my foreign minister until Croatia is internationally recognised. As soon as it's admitted, after that, he's been turned into quotes, or you've done your job, you're now going to be the university rector. It's politics. It's this new policy that you can't understand. So one minister can do one job best in this country. And complete your mission. He's going to another place where he can give himself away. That's what Mr. Korac was talking about in his opening work, and I think he said well when problems are found, then certain ministries come to changes, and certain ministers do their job and go to other jobs. And you who throw out the opposition, let me always finish this sentence. You from DS especially. You're very few gentlemen to have destroyed the present, that you've kidnapped the future for many generations, and you wanted to remain in power and Serbian heritage. This is not what the citizens of Serbia have allowed you to do, and thank God they won't in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22089	Borko Stefanovic has the right to reply. And you, according to the Rules of Procedure. Bojan Djuric according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22090	Member of the 27th and, of course, injured dignity of the Assembly. Please, Mr Arsenovic, in 24 years or 23 years of the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, there has been no such insult for this parliament to mention as a reference to the example of Franjo Tudjman as a platform for proper editing and state leadership. I ask you to respond, to warn Mr. Atlagic, it is truly shocking for this assembly and I do not know if Mr. Atlagic is threatening to be the university's rector, it is also in this country, thank God, at least technically, not possible. So, the president of the state can't set up a rector, I can't imagine how funny it would be for a person qualified by Tomislav Nikolic to set up a university rector.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22091	Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22092	You can't rephrase the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but what we can do about the replica, I've been waiting patiently, although it wasn't easy to listen and wait, but I've been waiting for you to mention DS and thank you for that. Actually, I'm not replicating you personally. I think the very harmful things you've brought up, and the mention of Tudjman as a reference, measurable thing, in this situation, are really offensive to many people, probably to Linta, who sits behind you, and I suppose some of our MPs. But since you're one authority, as I would say, a beginner's reader, you're all fascinated from the top to the bottom by the book you read that morning. For example, Alexander Vukic reads about Singapore and then on 20 interviews he talks about Singapore which is usually a dictatorship. Then you read Max Webber, and the advancers rush into the kiosk to buy Marks Webber because they think it's for sale there. That's your problem. Then you read the 1982 referendums, which was really fascinating for us to listen, that one of the main characteristics of the government's performance – ministers were present at the sessions, except for those who were justly absent. I really didn't want to answer it personally, but this was so inspiring for your MPs, I'm sorry you can't see them behind you, but if we're united today, it's really the highest possible assessment of the wits of your presentations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22093	Marko Atlagic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22094	After this statement by Mr. Stefanovic, I have no words. I'm sorry he didn't listen to what I was saying, but I'm glad the citizens of Serbia listened. It's the same with Mr. Djuric. In what context did I speak of Mr. Tudjman? What I think, Mr. Djuric, about Mr. Tudjman, I have published in many international and domestic magazines. If you are a written man, and I believe you are, follow, enter these chambers and read. But don't sell that cheap demagogy without listening. They listened to Serbian citizens, and in this sense I'm really glad they listened and not you. All I care about is whether it's true what I put out for the government, both of them, or not? Don't make fun of what I told him. He's 99% fascist, that's not controversial. But every fascist has something he's given in science or maybe somewhere else, in biology, etc. So, I don't speak politically. I'm really sorry you didn't listen. Take a stenogram and read it, then react. Like this, you've been in the way of your work the whole time, because you've been sorry to listen to the successes of the new government. I wonder if something's not true from the 22nd point, or is it true? And what Mr. Borko Stefanovic says is, he's planting the same thing because he didn't listen. Mr. Borko, I was not talking about the government's presence at the government's meetings, but in this assembly on Thursday, every last Thursday of the month, all ministers were constantly present, except for those who were on an official trip out of the country. Is that right or not, Mr. Stefanovic Borko? Get a stenogram and check it out. That's all I've talked about all the time. How can you not be ashamed to tell the truth?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22095	According to Business, the word is Predrag Markovic, then Janko Veselinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22096	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is very nice when such an atmosphere is created, cheerful, witty, it relaxes people, but please, according to the Rules of Procedure, will you be bound by the Rules of Procedure of the 27th, who is just bound by you as chairman as you lead the Assembly, to a member of 107 who speaks of dignity, and that even under the Law of the National Assembly, no one has the right, and no party of any MP has the right to forbid what he will say, whose image he will admire, that is his business. If any MPs report to the Rules of Procedure to prohibit this from another MP, you must intervene, please. Anyone who chooses what part of the biography they admire is absolutely right. That's the first thing. The other thing is, but if someone offends this parliament at that time, and says, in the history of 24 years, a long history of parliamentaryism; please, I know that it is embarrassing for anyone to say something like that, but in the meantime it is yours, not to say a note or anything, but just to distract yourself, nothing more, and to support a good atmosphere that has been very cheerful these few minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22097	The word is Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22098	Article 107. Rules of Procedure. I don't think this atmosphere is a bit cheerful. I'm amazed at what I just heard from the SNS. Astonished, they certainly escaped and exiled from Croatia, which many gave their vote to the SNS. What did 1% good Tudjman do for Serbs in Croatia? What did 1% of Hitler do for mankind? What did Mussolini do? I consider the chairman that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, that you should have warned the MPs, that you should have, I hope that the SNS parliamentary group will also declare this, this is an insult to the Serbian people from Croatia and an insult to the Serbian people and an insult to even sound thinking. Even in the Croatian Parliament, Tudjman is no longer quoted. His actions are well-recognized. He did not end up in The Hague because he was not alive, and that some SNS MP quoted him as an example of the behaviour of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is for every insult and from what we have heard here this morning until now, this is the paradigm of all that we have been listening to for the past year from the ruling coalition and from the SNS MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22099	Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22100	I have one more thing to say, since it is a duty to speak the truth, Zvonimir Šeparević is not an expert in international law, he has dealt with criminal law and victimology, so there is no talk about it, it is another contribution to the discussion of my respected predecessor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22101	Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22102	I speak on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group. The ideology that has been mentioned in the past exchange of replicas has done nothing good, even more, has taken millions of lives, has remained at the waste of history, those who have preached it, who have bled their hands in it, some have been punished, some as a colleague has said just before, just because they have not stayed in life and have not been punished, but in one thing I am sure, here sits 14 parliamentary groups in this parliament, none of the parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament, thank God does not represent such values, such goals, such sick things that are, I hope, decades behind our country. I believe that we are all at our heart to build a state of Serbia-organised state, strong institutions, a perspective state, a country from which people will not leave, but will stay here, work, form their families, live well, and I am sure that not only does it write in all our programs, I am sure that we all stand up for such a thing. In the name of the SNS, we will no longer enter these kinds of polemics that really bring nothing good to us as a state, as a people. I'm not just talking on behalf of the parliamentary group. I ask you all to accept that we get out of this, not to be alarmed, not to get excited and confused by the citizens who are listening to us right now, because I still think that all 250 MPs are serious people, people who are at heart, and in their minds and in the programs of some other idea, and that all that's been going on behind us for decades is where it is, because these aren't the values that we should mention, let alone promote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22103	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22104	I agree, but I'm not sure that when you say that, Mr. Granny, you can vouch for every one of your MPs. I wish that were true, as I would like the SNS, since you have so many professional people, working on the spelling, so let's say that they know that when someone's dead you can't say that the gentleman is, too, so you can't say - even more. You can, or even more, you can't do both. Also, you can't stand up and say that the DS anti-Serbian program was conducted and was an anti-Serbian party, and that you expect us to sit here right now and say - well, yes, it does, it doesn't matter. It's just one of the MPs' opinions. Please, I appeal to you, as I also accept as head of the parliamentary group to step out of this discussion because it is harmful, it is harmful for mental health, if you will, but I also ask that your MPs make sure that this is not 1996 and 1997 and that it cannot be said that one party is anti-Serbian. If you have evidence of this, tell us why we are an anti-Serbian party, and what makes you Serbian? Are we anti-Serbian by Tudjman or are you Serbian, which, of course, is the same level of ground level as what you said to DS? That's the result, and that's the end of it. When we ask you 78 questions about the functioning of the future, the present, whatever governments you want us to call it, you have no answer. Everything you said to compare the two governments, avoiding the context of the economic situation and everything else falling into the water just because you used an inappropriate comparison. I'm saying this because of all the MPs. A lot of people felt hurt. That's not a good comparison. You had so many others, you could have mentioned to the Duke of Seselj, for instance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22105	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22106	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like a moment. I called before Mr. Babic answered, and that's why in one sentence only to say that I fully agree with him. I am now speaking as a representative of the Roma Party, who is a member of this parliamentary club, that we share in the heart and soul the values of which you, Mr Babić, have talked about and that, as I said about the presentation of colleagues who spoke from another parliamentary group, who had connotations about fascism etc., right here we want to make it clear that neither 1% nor 0.01% of such values can we accept and that we simply have to stand together on Serbia's side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22107	Thank you. Mr. Lapchev, on what grounds did you answer the word?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22108	On what basis did Mr. Shane get his word?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22109	You're right. I was wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22111	The word has a People's Messenger, Zarko Korac. You have four minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22112	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, a long-awaited reconstruction of the government has been announced and we have received a law amending the Ministry Act which shows that, at least according to this structure here I have, this will be absolutely, at least in this sense, the government's organization, the complete government of continuity. Here in this material that we've only gotten, as has been said here many times, are shared by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. It is true that the Ministry of Justice and the state administration, which Minister Selakovic spoke of, is much more precisely defined by his part-time work. Everything else is the same. In other words, when you talk about the relationship between structure, form and mode, there's not a single new idea here. So that's what we need to make clear and public. I have to say, what we got here doesn't give us any hope of how the government works. It remains, of course, that personal figure, who will be members of the government, let's see, but as far as the government's work organisation itself is concerned, there's not a single new idea here. Since the government was mentioned here in 2001, and I was a member of that government, so I'm going to give you an example of how when a government organization is done differently, then its work content looks different. The government had a political, rudely speaking, and a technical professional part, a professional part, a political part were vice presidents who were party leaders or the most important person, not the president, in the party presidency. It was a political part of the government because they made decisions, and the other part of the government were often non-partisan people who were tasked with having some decisions defined at some political level then realised in practice. The government has been ironed to the number of vice-presidents many times, but that was the only purpose of introducing such a large number of vice-presidents, because late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic felt it was necessary for the government to have a political consensus. That's exactly what this government doesn't have right now. And we don't know which place or when they agreed on a reconstruction. All Serbian citizens see that one key government man was for the URS to be kicked out of the government, another man was for him to be held back. By the way, it was not only Mladjan Dinkic who left the government, but also the two ministries would be left without ministers. These are for European integration and local self-government. In other words, what I feared happened. It is unclear where political arrangements are made on what the government's work looks like. Minister Selakovic is right when he says governments should have some continuity, that some countries do not change the number of ministries. This, for example, applies to the United States, who do not have a government in the right sense of that word, but they have state secretaries and it does not really change there, but these are countries that are much more stable and more built institutions and much more stable, though a little more specific, democracy in shape. We here have a clear indication that nothing is actually going to change. It is only now that we see some new names of which, regardless of the level and degree of education, it is difficult to trust a young man of 28 years, I have spent my whole life teaching and working with young people, that he can have the capacity, unless he has the help, well-intentioned professional assistance of other people that he can cope with what he's been given. I respect that a young and educated man has been chosen, but I must say, in advance, I'm not quite sure he can do it. So, once again, as we've been given the law on amendments to the Ministry Act, this is the Government of Continuity. There are no new concepts in the work of the government, and we'll see when the ministers get here and when they're elected whether they'll change anything in their work. One more thing to say and I'm done with it. It's very unusual what was done. The construction was announced first, and then it's been talking for months about reconstruction. It would be logical if the reconstruction agreement had been reached at this political level, so the technical realization of the government's reconstruction and eventually a law that would then be organised differently by the government itself was done very briefly. We attend one agony, one negotiation process that lasts six months, where obviously there are growing cracks between the SPS and the SNS, etc. and Serbian citizens pay the price for it. So when the government's quality is indicated, then it should have been a little self-critical to show that these six months show that this government is approaching the end of what it could have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22113	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22114	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, today's law we're discussing is actually the introduction to reconstruction, a long-awaited reconstruction of the government that came not full a year after its formation. Last year, at the end of July, this current government that is still going on was formed. The arguments for such a schedule of ministries and their names were that they were about to provide functionally and effectively doing business in the work of individual ministries and on our observation that it was not normal for two of the most problematic areas in our society, finance and economy, to be joined into one of the Mammoth Ministries and that a huge job concentrated on one man, were just the counterarguments that it was the best possible organization and that we should therefore vote for such a law on government. After one year, it is said that the continued and effective monitoring of the work of the state administration body is one of the preconditions for performing the tasks of the Government and, therefore, in addition to numerous activities in other areas of its competence, the Government has constantly followed the situation and appreciated the need to amend and supplement the law on ministries to create normative assumptions for a more adequate and rational organisation of state administration, as well as more successful functioning of ministries and other bodies of the state administration. Whatever this means that I've read hardly anyone's clarity tells us that exactly what we talked about last year is not supposed to work, that this law proposes to be done. Last year you assured us that such an organization of ministries is the best, now you're telling us that in fact this is a different, divided finance and economy ministry in two, it's actually the best solution. When can I trust you? Last year or now? It hasn't been over a hundred years. It's barely been a year. What were the promises of the current ministers and the entire government when she was elected? We're going to cut deficits and public spending, we're going to shut down agencies, we're going to cut off duties that were enormous in the previous period. Is that what happened? It's not. The deficit was projected at 120 billion dinars, he's probably around that number right now. The rebalance has increased to 170. The debts of four years of previous authorities that had enormously owed the country were seven billion. For the first year, or perhaps less than a year, those duties have transferred four billion euros. Public consumption has not decreased in any segment. On the contrary, we have a continuous increase in public services, especially in public enterprises. Since March, it has been moving with the story that the government should be reconstructed for failing to meet certain objectives and because of the problematic situation in the areas I was talking about. So it's said on March 13th -- the government's reconstruction, there's no room for more chairs. The first concrete moves are expected by the end of next week, when the Progressives' main board decides on the shifts of its ministers, which will be the introduction to the conduct of personnel in the SPS and the URS camps, March 13th. The main board was probably held next week but, of course, a story that can be called the Spanish series continues. At the Progressive headquarters, May 20th, they said a session of the main committee would be held after that date and that all ministers' work would be analysed and a decision would be taken. So he says, on March 29th, the first Deputy Prime Minister -- soon to be reconstructed by the government, will be reconstructed, for which we need seven to 10 days without stress and commitment to some of the crucial things that we are now dealing with. Well, June 27th -- talks on the government's reconstruction are on the move next week, Prime Minister Dacic said. Well, June 30th -- the government's reconstruction will meet and the leaders of the ruling parties will discuss it. Next week, a meeting of the leaders of the ruling parties. On Monday, a meeting of the leaders of the ruling parties. At 4:00, the meeting started. At 6:00 a.m., the meeting's still going on. We'll continue the conversation at 8:00. This is the first meeting. So it is said: rapid changes are needed. The government's reconstruction must be swift, thorough and will end by the end of July. On July 1st, he says – talks by key partners in the government on the reconstruction of the government should begin already today, then on 16 July Nebojsa Stefanovic – we have scheduled a session of the main committee for July 6th, and a session of Parliament will be scheduled for 29th or 30th. Decisions will be made on the reconstruction of the government and the names of ministers will be known. Then it is said -- three weeks from now, the new government is ready for challenge. The meeting of Vukic, Dacic and Dinkic began at 16 o'clock. There were words at the meeting, etc. The new reconstructed government will be ready and famous since 26 July, etc. It's August 26th, we're going to the so-called. The end of the story of a Spanish series called the government's reconstruction and which is a cure and a substitute for all the problems in this country. In the six months that the ruling elite has been distracting us with the government's reconstruction story, you couldn't hear on the media how many problems the state has, how many problems it will cause long-term drought, how much industrial production is reduced, how many unemployed, what is the social economic situation, what are the prices of cherry, plums, raspberries, blackberries and other agricultural products, etc. For everyone, the cure was a government reconstruction. Everything that is a problem in this country, and unfortunately this painful topic of treating children and the lack of money in the budget, will be when the government is reconstructed. Here we go in a government reconstruction, and what was the last six months? I'm not sure that we had any more important activities and more important results, except for those that worked behind the back or behind the grain, as they say. It took six months for the public to shift to something else, not to think about how they will survive, not thinking about whether Serbia will lose its sovereignty in Kosovo by shutting down its institutions and forces daily, and our poor and martyrs from Kosovo, that they must be flagped by Kosovo to go to elections and thus give them legitimacy, etc. In the end, the epilogue of the whole story is that one ministry splits into two and all problems and the culprit for all that is wrong in this country is Mladjan Dinkic and the URS. Only a few years ago, Mladjan Dinkic said he would never go with the SNS, and they said that he was a man with some number on his back, that he was the worst and that he should be tried, and be careful, don't lie down, when everyone thought there would be an end to the story on that, two days ago Mladjan Dinkic was appointed chief adviser to the UAE Co-operation Committee and says – Vukic rose above the daily policy and I am honored to work with Mr. Vukic. When you add to all this a statement by SNS Vice President Zorana Mihajlovic that it is nothing until Vucic is prime minister in today's newspaper, then decide what is true and how long the Spanish series lasts. The DSS will not support such a change of law because it will not bring anything new and concrete. Politics will remain old, and stories about reconstruction and the cure for everything will continue, only other actors will likely be guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22115	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22116	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, for the sake of truth and for the sake of avoiding cataclysmic announcements of what would be or cataclysmic past five, six months, for the sake of truth, and I can't help but recall that the government of the Republic of Serbia has been discussing only the reconstruction in the last six months, although the mention of reconstruction was one very nice injection of adrenaline, so that everyone gave additional gas and additional input to engagement, I can't accept the fact, because none of the SNS and I haven't heard from our partners from the government of the Republic of Serbia, he didn't say - just to get the new finance minister and be the money for everyone. Such a statement would be an irresponsible man's statement. From the SNS you could only hear that it would be difficult and that it is difficult, that no reform that has been implemented and that will be implemented will be easy or simple, we are ready for these reforms. We are also prepared to suffer the political consequences of such reforms. We are ready to work for a Serbia that will not be and for moves that will not be popular now, but will bring improvement to all Serbian citizens in the coming period. But please don't use a pay phone in this high house, use all this and say something that's just not true. For confirmation of my words, if you'll excuse me, JAT's capitalization, bringing Etihad, when did it happen? In the last few months when the reconstruction was largely talked about. Isn't one public firm whose functioning has been resolved enough? That's what Mr. Wolfie was talking about today when he was here. Don't use a pay phone for some flat-rate presentations of what you think you're just going to do politically at the moment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22117	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22118	Mr Babić, I have not given a flat-rate assessment of the government's work, but I have been talking about the fact that the budget deficit, as much as Serbia has been in debt over the past six months. It's not a story of cataclysmic estimates, it's an analysis of the current state. The deal with Etihad was a month ago based on probably one year's work. But let me refer you to an article that came out yesterday, and it says, a lesson from Denmark, the government's reconstruction lasted one day. I'm asking you, what have you been doing for six months? Why was the only topic in the public reconstruction of government and medicine and a solution for all? How is it possible for you to announce in March of the month, so that you can discuss it on party bodies or do not know at the meeting of coalition leaders in late June, and that the reconstruction will be at the end of August 26th, without a name and without knowing who will be running certain resolutions tomorrow, and what will be the programme of those people who will take over those resolutions? Indeed, you can justify yourself as much as you want, but look at people who do it much more effectively. In six months you could have called the election, 45 days of the call being held. The election ends, two months of negotiations on the government, so three and a half months from now you have a new government to call the election in March. You've been distracting the public of Serbia for six months with reconstruction and talking about how it's more effective to talk about reconstruction than to talk about new elections. Of course not, but a topic is needed to cover public problems in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22119	MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22120	I wish we were Denmark, but Denmark did not, and many who sit in this hall, and I think of you, Mr. Lapčević and your MP group, have missed the opportunity when they could at least approach the standard of Denmark from Serbia, did not do so. On the other hand, the programme of ministers and ministries is not a matter of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. It's a matter of government law, exposé and everything else. As far as this creation is concerned, I'm kind of still getting the words from this 2007 gym. To remember those few days, so I want to go there, I want to go there. Please don't let us go back to history again, it is closer, but don't let us go back to 2007 and make some kind of government into hooligans or I don't know what. As for the deficit, believe me, I'd be very happy that this government was in a situation like some government five, six, seven, eight years ago, when it had a huge resource, when it was selling social capital, filled with this budget and boasted about it. You know, when you sell your grandfather's, you can only sell it once, solve something, spend it, end it. This government didn't sell anything, it didn't have anything, and what she could not have wanted, we went with the principle of capitalization. But we didn't sell anything. That's why that hole in the deficit, which was filled in by privatizing what generations had acquired, and we see that many of these things that were then sold are now the matter of some court proceedings. Don't let us put that concept back again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22121	Please bring the end of the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22122	Yes, Mr. Babic, I remember you in 2007. You were wearing a shirt with a guy here and you were strutting with her in parliament. And then you had a chance to get into some government, but it just didn't happen. Don't mention 2007, because in 2007, the average salary was 450 euros. In 2007, external debt was reduced, from 2004 to 2007, by five billion euros. That money that came from the privatisation wasn't spent like some spent before you, it was back international contracts from who knows when. You know that this is the golden period of Serbia, at least in the last 15 years, that it has lived best, with the best standard, with the highest quality program and the best quality of life. From the sale, yes. Mr. Babic, when you were wearing that shirt and you were hoping to be part of the government was left to the new government for over a billion euros in a cash register of living money. No one puts it in their pockets, but leaves it to the new government. These predecessors of yours have left you a minus of who knows how many, a billion and a half, and you're going to beat them sixfold.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22123	MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22124	If you'll excuse me, I won't answer again. How good Mr. Lapčević's memory is to confirm the fact, and I guess I know best, that in 2007, I was not in parliament. My first term was in 2008. Therefore, you do not remember Mr. Lapčević or at least selectively when it comes to these matters. On the other hand, somehow when some government and government are doing well, she's probably getting the election, she gets the trust. The citizens say that, you did great, we want more. What do you lose after only a year? What happened to that? If all this is ideal, all good, how did you lose the trust of Serbian citizens? It's easy to sell. Once it's sold and gone. We want, the SNS wants to solve problems in Serbia, it wants on mature, real and good grounds to hire people and to boast of such things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22125	This concludes the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22126	Here, we end the circle of replicas. It's an honor to you for your efforts and for your desire to do what is best for Serbia. That desire, and that desire, is measured by some numbering data. When you come out with the fact that reduced employment, reduced external debt, increased standard, etc., then we can talk. Of course, we all want the best for our country. The results are the ones that need to be judgmental. About the sale, not the sale, we didn't sell out the territory, and we didn't give it away, which seems a lot today, Mr. Babico, and you're aware of that. You can do it once in history and you never have the right to go back. Take care of it because the history of the judge is the most severe judgment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22127	MP Zoran Babic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22128	A lot when the facts are lost, when the thread is lost, when the relationship with reality and truth is lost, when it cannot be answered in a realistic and quality way, then it resorts to it – traitors, you sold territory. Who sold the territory, where, what, to whom, how or to various exodus, to various trucks, tractors, and all sorts of much uglier things to respond with a request, and that's what we're done with? It doesn't end that way, my dear colleague Lapčević. That's not the answer. The answer is to run a real, viable policy, and that's SNS policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22129	Gentlemen, I think you're slowly moving away from the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22130	Mr. Chairman, I agree that we should get back to a specific topic, but first of all, a member of the ruling coalition has to do so, I can't. There was one oath – so help me God, I will not rest until Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part, I will do my best, etc. Dictionary and terms: traitors, you have sold, where your soul, your curses, are the miles from which you originate, not me. So, Mr. Granny, there's no reason for us to go to some big story right now, and you can see everything. You can see everything, you can tell everything. The institution crosses Jarinje, Serbs must go to elections, admit, etc., are things that history will still judge. Once done, never back.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22131	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22132	Mr. Chairman, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, for six months there has been tension, it is now clear that the real goal of this operation was not to talk about the real problems of our country. Today, when it comes to the bill, things are very clear. You probably wanted these impossible deadlines, for who knows which time, to disable the discussion in this House. It will remain written that this is the law on the structure of the executive authority that has been given to parliament to study, to plead, that what has been discussed for six months will be reduced to several hours of discussion. I'm not talking about the point here, because when we look at this law, without any desire to offend anyone here, it's one big nothing. Not that it doesn't say anything in it, because the Ministry Act exists and it exists for several years, for a few decades, but this law comes down to three things. First, to divide the Ministry of Finance and Business into two ministries. It seems to be the only goal here, to throw out the URS, but we saw, now I don't even know what to call it, the future former minister has already returned to executive power, has been appointed as the real prime minister of this government, we have seen it today, because from the official Prime Minister of the Government no trace, no vote, and don't tell us that he was in Brussels, because our first vice president, who came and thus clearly took responsibility for all the resolutions of this government, said that he was leaving when he went to go to that same Brussels. So now we don't even know what the status of that party is. Is this URS opposition, whether it's in power or not, and I wouldn't want to be the skin of a future economy minister, because it was given to a future former minister to deal with the only investor you might have brought here. I'm saying -- maybe because we've seen these many businesses for the time being -- I don't think she's been arranged, hotels on the Bath, and as far as JAT's concerned, here we're officially asking for a contract to be delivered. We welcome this operation, let's see the details of the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, because the day ago we saw that a thunderous announced investment in some renewable energy sources could lead to a huge loss of our country. You will allow us to have no confidence in your negotiating powers and we want to see that contract. Second, it's a transfer of a normative part of property relations from the Ministry of Finance to the Ministry of Justice. We know it was in the Federal Ministry of Justice before it was transferred to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia at the time of the abolition of the SCG state union. As a former minister, I can tell you that's not good. I think it's the subject of lobbying here, whether it's a lawyer's lobby or another lobby, I don't know, but it's not good for all the property issues to be in one ministry. Remember the debate about the Restitution Act. I had this honor and great responsibility to run this job in the previous government and a concrete job showed there that the Ministry of Justice has no such capacity and that it is bad that the Ministry of Finance, which is ultimately responsible for the assets of the Republic of Serbia, will not have any normative opportunity to intervene, will no longer have experts who will deal with it and everything will be transferred to the Ministry of Justice, though still, and this is now the division of the normative and effective work, the second-degreed decision on property issues remains in the Ministry of Finance. That's not good. For the diaspora, I think it's a matter to deal with all the ministries and it's not meant to be referred to only one ministry, the foreign ministry, as if it were our diaspora side. She must be part of our being. Of course, in various legal states we shouldn't share in different ways, but that's all you wrote here. There is no innovation in this law, there is not one word that has been changed compared to the previous Ministry Act. We've heard a year of great debate, that this is some new scale, that some new structure is going to be introduced. That's not gonna happen. There's nothing that will allow, in a structural sense, any savings. There is no innovation in the domain of our country's functioning. There's nothing. Now we, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, have to believe that this new elan will emerge from the identification of several new people and innovations, at least since 5 October, is that we are discussing this law without even knowing who will be ministers and even less what they predict and what they will do. It is not true that, when the ministry laws were changed the previous time, we did not know who would be ministers and I can say, on a personal occasion, that I had been presented to our public for a month and a half before the elections, and that was some practice that would be good for all of us, especially for those who are not members of the political parties and who are unknown to our public. That's why I think it's worth mentioning, and I'm going to start from what the majority said, that it had to change in this law, and that's what I'm going to conclude, because it's going to be the subject, not only of the discussions of other DS deputies, but of our discussions on the amendments that we've tabled. If the central objective is full EU membership, how is it possible that there is no indication here that we will have a vice-president for European integration? Why wasn't there any debate about the ministry's issue, how this issue would be resolved and here we are, after allegedly getting the start of negotiations, we don't have negotiators, not even today. Will he be justice minister at the same time, will he give up his portfolio, will someone from the previous government be taken? We do not know anything about it and, much worse, our European partners and we will come into a situation in September, October, to remind you, since the state is still a serious matter, no one today is dealing with what should be a dialogue with the European Commission, so that the report that awaits us in November, which will be completed in September of the month, is as favourable as possible for our country. Not to mention, this saga is really costing citizens. Be in the skin of ministers or people working in their environment and you haven't known what's going to happen to you in six months. Be in the skin of those ministers who have known for two months that they will be replaced. What are you doing? What are you doing? Nothing, of course. What's the situation with your associates? Not at all. It's up to them to suffer, but the problem is that our country is suffering, too, that nothing is being done about us. To protect the environment, we have an absurdity for a man who is allegedly all-powerful in this country, who says -- we agree that this issue should not be divided between the three ministries, but there is no power. Tell us who it is that prevents you from speaking to him and to her, so that we may resolve. It needs Serbia, as was the case with Zoran Djindjic, the deceased, the ministry dealing with the environmental protection issue. It will be 30% of our country's future negotiations with the EU, so much is the "akko minoter". What about traffic? I guess we've seen for a year that three ministers can't deal with corridors. You threw one out, maybe, we don't know yet. Nothing changes here. Why today, even though you have declared yourself to the team over and over again, admitting that this work and functioning of the Ministry of Education is not going, you have not suggested, and that this is our amendment, to form a ministry of higher education, science and technological development, and then, eventually, to join the enlightenment of some other parts. That's all the things you can do. I mean, I'm going to conclude that the government and there are facts inexorable and your marketing tricks can't work long, unemployment has increased to 40,000 people, young people - 51.2% of them are jobless, you haven't told them anything in the past year, you haven't done anything for them. Serbia at the start of foreign direct investment, contrary to what was the case during the previous government. You owe the country four billion euros, not to pay back some previous debts. Not only that, the interest will inevitably grow in the coming period, and you're not ready for that. You've shown it by disastrously running public finances. The last act of this shameful act was the failure of a billion euros in our budget. This is what we are on the donkey bench of Europe's public finances. In this rebalancing, i.e. In this law on ministries and what we see being announced as a team that will come, we see that the economy is being smiled at by someone who deals only with bankruptcy, and for finance someone who certainly has a good education, and since he and I worked in the same firm, I can safely tell you that there is no experience in the domain of public finances. It's, unfortunately, the perspective of this country. It is, unfortunately, what the Democratic Party will fight in the months to avoid what, I fear, can be financial and any other kind of collapse of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22133	Thank you. Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22134	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have to respond to a statement here, which is that it's a law that's one big nothing, and then it's been talking about that law for almost ten minutes. If it's one big nothing, then you wouldn't be able to say anything about him. But a few things have been said that I have to react to. Yes, it is true that once property-legal relations and their regulation were in the jurisdiction of the federal justice ministry. Yes, unfortunately, they haven't gone to the Republic Justice Department. I underline, it is a normative action, i.e. a work cycle covering legislative, or legislative action. Evidence that the failure in the area lies in the work of the Ministry of Finance is the fact that for 23 years the Republic of Serbia does not have its own law on property and other real rights. As a graduate lawyer, I have to say that every day there is no law, our damage in the future increases in geometric progression. We're the only former socialist country that hasn't passed that law. The proof that the place of work is within the jurisdiction of the justice ministry is also the fact that it is timely, and correct me if I am wrong, it is about 2007, 2008, therefore, the second government of Vojislav Kostunica. When an agreement was reached between the then finance minister and the minister of justice, which will move this business into a detour, I think even there is some conclusion of the government, so Dusan Petrovic was the minister of justice at the time and he accepted the justice ministry's jurisdiction to draft a law on property and other real rights. So one extremely important law, one of the fundamental laws in a single country's legal system. Of course, it should go into the work of the Ministry of Justice, or the Ministry of Justice. Because, like I said, every day there's no law we lose. Even tomorrow, if the draft was adopted, I would defend it here to you or someone else who is the minister of justice, because we formed as the Ministry and the task force and employ experts and work on it. So, of course, I think that's a good and justifiable solution. Again, I note, the normability of property-legal relations, not the other part of the Ministry of Finance's work that remains there anyway. Of course it's supposed to be there. You mentioned the Restitution Act. If there were more experts from exclusively legal professions involved in the making of this law, we would probably have a law that is much more effective, better and more applied. So we generally have a problem with the application of that law because that law is applied not only by the agency, but also by the courts. If you define something that is a court case, you should consult people from that profession. So I don't think there's any room for the objections that's been made here that it shouldn't be in the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, in any case it's going to be submitted to a certain amendment, so I believe that the Parliament in voting day will be made known about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22135	Thank you, the word is Nedjo Jovanovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22136	The Honorable Chairman, fellow Members of the People, in a series of insults today, I first advertise Article 27 and Article 106. The Rules of Procedure. An insult referring to the prime minister, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia. No one reacted, and in particular no one reacted from those who chaired those insinuations and humiliations made by DS representatives. Is the Prime Minister formal or factual? Where he is today and how well the DS representatives know. It's right there doing that job that they were supposed to do, that they didn't know or know how to finish or didn't get it right, and it came to him the same thing. So from the point of view of what they're interpreting about the prime minister, we can only talk about where they were when they were in power with us why they didn't do what they were supposed to do. Therefore, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that such overwhelmingly humiliating findings about the prime minister are no longer being presented and that you, as the chairman of this House, are reacting to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22137	Thank you. Predrag Markovic, replica on behalf of the URS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22138	Thank you to the President-in-Office, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Rules of Procedure prohibits personal address in terms of insulting, calling, ad-hominem, and not in terms of respect. Mr. Djelic, dear Bozo, this much grief that one member of a party, please, I said this seriously, I don't know why you laugh when someone says "Dear Mr. Djelic." Please, our correctness is many years old but one MP wants to be told what the other parliamentary group is going to do because he doesn't know. Please, of course you don't know, not you, but all those who don't even know about themselves, so let's say in the morning we vote against, so they vote yes at night, and I don't vote. I don't vote, why? Because it's not a question of whether you're a position or an opposition, but there are responsible people, responsible people know priorities. When it's Europe's priority, whoever wants to work for Europe, we work with him. Look at the history of the past years. Whoever was really working at that moment we were there because it's a priority, and not if we're not in power by accident, we're not in Europe anymore, we're out of the room, we don't vote anymore, we're yu-hoo, until someone calls us on the phone and says, "Come back and vote." So they come back at twelve o'clock and vote people. I don't mean any party individually, there's as much as you want. There are serious and firm definitions for some values and your obligation to advocate it. You support anyone who changes and accepts those definitions. There's a skepticism to those values. I respect the parties that are skeptics, but I don't respect Euro-hysterics, and I'll never jump through the studios with anyone to kiss, and at the same time this is a reconstruction. For reconstruction, don't let God say that there are ministers who have 15 minutes before the Prime Minister who's doing the reconstruction shows up on a show to announce names, reports they're no longer ministers for one area. We find it embarrassing, and now I find it embarrassing, and I support the seriousness of all those. And today I said, whenever I call on people to come to this country to help, I say, "Welcome to Serbia." That's what I told Mr. Djelic in 2001, and now I'm going to tell anyone who wants to do it seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22139	The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22140	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can say that I've been listening to everything from my colleagues in the DS. Which means, if the names of all the candidates for ministers were known, as we discuss the Ministry Act, and not the Government, then we'd probably be accusing us of writing laws for individual ministers, candidates for ministers, that's how it turns out. When it comes to these stories, even if someone had only a few hours to study the law, your previous speaker while he was Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and he was then Minister of Finance, we were also scheduled to hold sessions of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with agenda points, which the government had not yet voted and sent to the Assembly. I'm also talking about unemployment, there are 40,000 newly unemployed, and a year ago unemployment was close to 26%, now it's 24.2%. I'm interested, here's even if there are 40,000 new unemployed, who's responsible for the previous million, why don't you say so? Why don't you say you were in charge back then? Or, why don't you say that in August of the month, when Mirko Cvetkovic was appointed prime minister, the euro was 80 dinars, in order to be 118 in August 2012, that is almost 50% of the euros, and more than 3.5 billion euros were spent on the protection of the dinar course. Is it also the fault of the Foreign Exchange Act, which Mirko Cvetkovic suggested, in which a colleague from the DS, was then in that same government, who allowed the payment of an advance on goods, that goods should never be entered and the foreign exchanges would never be returned to the country, so as to protect the surplus capital that did not serve foreign speculation on the market and the destruction of both citizens and businesses?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22141	The word has Božidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22142	First of all, as far as this property issue is concerned, I'm telling you from experience, so you're going to find out because there's an archive that in the working group that wrote the Restitution Act, and how they were present and top lawyers, and that's the responsible people from our judiciary, the Attorney General. I am a great supporter of the laws being made by these people, those who will know where the problems will come from in application. I've heard you say it several times with your new friend Phil that you're boasting he's praised some of your moves. That's good, I think you'll remember how much it is and how it's praised the Law on Restitution, which works well, it's extremely complex matter, and in some ways we've managed maybe at the last minute to solve it in a very good way. However, you have not answered any other questions that are no less large, perhaps even bigger. Why, if Mrs. Mihajlovic, I suppose some vice president of your party, has repeatedly said that it is necessary to form the Ministry of Environment, to protect the environment, that is not done? Why, if you've talked so much about European integration, we still don't have any structure, at least in the structure of the orientation on whether and how will this central issue be solved? Why three months after the alleged status, i.e. We don't know who's going to be running the negotiations, and that's how we can take a long time? And as for these questions you asked, we didn't finish the job. I would remind you that when the DS had responsibility for the Kosovo issue, there is also the man who negotiated and who you then attacked, declared him a traitor, with much less concessions, our country got much more. Did we in any way go in the way of the so-called so-called. liaison officer. Any signatures with some entities that could somehow lead to an implicit recognition of the so-called. Kosovo? Did Serbia accept all this that you accepted, and I ask you, since this is also a fact, did we get such a sharp statement, that is the conclusion of the Bundestag, which now binds the hands not only to this parliament, but to every future German government, it is difficult to think that this policy will change in any way, whatever the results of their upcoming elections? That's what you got. You have received something that will continue to be a great difficulty in our European integration, so much for your effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22143	Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22144	I didn't want to answer any more, I can't give up, it's more out of respect and a deep understanding for my colleague Arsic, as I understand it, these are your last days in that place, so I always take the opportunity to exchange with you while I can constructive criticism of each other and arguments. I'm sorry it's coming, I saw the title in your regimeal press, the reconstruction of the MP's club, but good, what's there. Sometimes things don't get any better. What's for sure is that, really, as DS, we're no longer going into these, let me put it this way, I don't mean you personally, but it's a bunch of things, to measure the effect of Cvetkovic's government and this government of yours in a year, it's a mess. You know why? Because Serbian citizens are interested in how they live now and how they and their children will live tomorrow. Since we have lost the elections for not two percent of you, which is now forgotten, and since the worse part of the government has entered the coalition with you, and the better has not, since our results have remained better out of power, and the worse has gone into power with you and since, unfortunately, your citizens of Serbia, most unfortunately, the numbers have denied you and shown that they are now living up there and that everything is worse in all segments, as we have said today and Mr. Vukic, has failed to tell us in which area progress has been made in this country, unfortunately the citizens of Serbia, it is that line that I would now draw and let us see, gentlemen, what you know you are doing and what your results are. Let Mirko Cvetkovic do the consulting, let those who have sinned against the laws respond, let those who are guilty go where they should go, let the citizens of Serbia bring their own judgment, but this has really become completely pointless. So, what's the opposition to you? Someone tells you: "People, this is not good." You say, "Yeah, what are you?" Indeed, Mr. Arsic, no longer interests anyone in Serbia, and you should at least be interested, because you have the greatest responsibility, you exercise authority, you run this country, so that's the point, nothing else. Otherwise, if Ivica Dacic were Prime Minister, he would be here today, Mr Jovanovic, and he wasn't here today, and since he insulted us a million times that we don't exist, that the opposition is a non-existent entity, who's going to remind him of his behavior, maybe you can? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22145	Please do not address the MP directly. Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22146	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can agree with some of the things my previous speaker said, but with some I really can't. You know, Serbia has been too long, I can say, especially in the economic sense, destroyed. Lived on lies, lived on loans and Euro bonds, lived on duties, lived on privatisation, lived on fake demagogues, so today we came to the conclusion that everything that was worth Malta in Serbia had failed and that now it should somehow be started. Everyone who understands themselves a little bit in the economy knows that it's not so easy or so fast. Does he have results no better? Of course there is. Here, I'm just going to give you one example, which never happened during the DS government, the euro is smaller today than it was last year at the same time, you couldn't boast. We can. Only one dinar when the euro is smaller, the state owes about 20 billion dinars less and you know it very well and you know it is less pressure on the Republic of Serbia's budget. What is it that I resent DS? Not on good intentions, as the president of the SNS said, all your criticisms that are justified, all that is worth listening to, and what we think is a good idea, we have accepted. Therefore, accept part of your responsibility for the economic situation in Serbia today. There's nothing else we're asking of you. Just your part of the responsibility. Someone has an individual, someone only has a political one.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22147	Thank you. Mr. Kasalovic, on what grounds? If it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then it has an advantage. Mr. Jovanovic, then you have a word for the replica, I mean, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22148	It will be the same as Mr. Kasalovic, I will say to my dear DS colleagues, if we could clone the prime minister, it would be best, it would be in Brussels, in the Assembly, the Government, it would be everywhere, given that it works as much as it does, and given the fact that you point out that living citizens of Serbia, then remind yourself, did not catch you so much amnesia, it was a very short period of time, rather than the past, who generated that citizens today live badly, who had the least prime minister who interfered in their business, not to talk about the affairs of other ministers, or government jobs. Who caused the huge number of privatizations, who caused the destruction of the judiciary, who caused the bankruptcy mafia, who caused the theft of property through a variety of bankruptcy proceedings? It's not a recent past, it's not a long time ago from which all those causes that generate what you point to today. This government is trying to fix it and this prime minister has ironed your stains.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22149	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22150	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I am truly sorry that in this room is not the President and the first Deputy Prime Minister, I understand that Mr. Dacic has the strength to work 16 hours a day, unlike Mr. Vukic, but the first vice president has appeared here today and we really appreciate it, briefly but we have had the opportunity to hear it. A little over a year ago, the prime minister put out his exposés here in this room saying that his concept was precisely the most effective and that this is the best Serbia has at the moment and suggested the composition of its cabinet. What did we hear today? We heard that it was not good, that it was Mladjan Dinkic's fault, that instead of the government with 17 ministries, we should have a 18 ministry government. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister today has not convinced us that the bill is better than the previous one, and none of us are happy about the problem our country is in, everyone would like the situation to be much better, but when it is, let's try to look at these problems in one way and help you sort them out. Serbia is 127th inflow of foreign investment this year, and it is the worst ranking of the Serbian state in 12 years. The main thing is that one ministry appears to be divided into two parts, that Mr Dinkic should be changed, and in fact there is a political settlement between the SNS and the SPS, the other are random partners that no one has asked how this reconstruction will be implemented and not only one ministry in two is divided, but you have changed nine ministers this way. If the problem was with the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Sports, then I don't know what we need to talk about. Serbia has become "we will agree" the country, but in the sense that everything that is happening to it should be agreed with Alexander Vukic. I hope the Prime Minister won't ask us here on Friday to give them 100 days of government to show how he works and his latest government. You want to change Serbia, and it took you four months to change a few incompetent people. You wanted a smaller government, you wanted savings, and you don't go to parliament with that. The changes came, we heard today, yes, they're your election promises. What about stealing from the election, Mr. Minister, you're the minister of justice, has the department been detached? It's not. Did you cut the public debt? You didn't, he was increased, so I guess that's why you called Mr Dinkic to the government, when he failed to complete his mission, he was no longer a minister, and since yesterday he was vice-president of the first Deputy Prime Minister on some committee. Has the number of employees in the state administration been reduced? It's not, unfortunately, and it's increased there. Serbia has a decline in economic activity, a decline in standards, a fall in real profits, everything in Serbia falls, only the government will not fall. We have become a land of missed topics and this has been best seen today in this House. This law is an introduction to reconstruction, and it is no wonder that we are talking today about what will happen in this hall and Friday, when the prime minister is here, because we will have a kind of mix, a mixture of Yale and Megatrend, Torijec and Askurdjel Jovana, and indeed, we have a legitimate fear and fear of how this government will function in the coming period. You're trying to reset the nation and tell us that tomorrow you're going to become some new one and dreams become reality. It's clear to all of us that you're only a few months away until the KIM election is over. The finance ministry will be led by Mr. Krstic, a man who has 29 years of life, it is equal to the number of years Ivica Dacic is in politics and now someone will explain to me that he will be able to implement his economic policy and change what Mr. Dacic has been doing so far. You're telling us that this is a policy that will lead us forward, when it comes to state policy, and defending territorial integrity and democratic processes and the media and the state of the economy. We have become a country with special needs, there is no cure for us in Serbia, but it has to come from imports, we have a German foreign policy, we have a broken economy, we have arrested media, we have a humiliated judiciary, we have poor citizens. It's not all government's fault, of course, but just because me and the TV log don't live in the same country doesn't mean that you and I shouldn't live in the same country. Children in Serbia are starving, children in Serbia are dying because the state has no money to pay for their operation abroad, not from state money, but from money paid by Serbian citizens through contributions to health insurance. We have come this far that in this country the Pavlovics are Wahhabi. What's the solution? Let's end everything, both the National Assembly and the military and the police, and the judiciary and the district chiefs and Alexander Vukic to be a state. No, he'll handle it by bringing in a few advisors, a few experts who'll suggest tightening our belts and saving us. In this country, they do not spend citizens' money, and has anyone explained to the new finance minister, who has yet to study the budget and budget rebalancing, to see what the situation has been found, whether someone has told him that all available funds should be placed in agriculture and put under the control of public enterprises, while the directors of these public enterprises, such as Mr Simonovic of the Railways, have not eaten the budget of these companies. It is clear to us, Mr Selakovic, that I am absolutely certain that this is only one override, until the next election, which will soon follow in the Republic of Serbia. I don't know who the Prime Minister will be after these elections, and he may be some import project from abroad, but I know for sure who won't be the Prime Minister and I can't wait to hear what a new cabinet will do to make it possible for the citizens of Serbia to live a better life and to keep KIM within the borders of the Republic of Serbia, which will be able to say, we have done something good for this country. All attempts so far have not proved effective and therefore we will not support this law nor on Friday's latest government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22151	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22152	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, six months of news of government reconstruction, announcements of what will happen in a completely new way and new ideas. So, all these six months of news of government reconstruction. I have to tell the news, because there was no dialogue about it, obviously not even in the ruling coalition, because we opened the paper this morning, so we saw that one minister demanded the Prime Minister's resignation. Any opposition in every country would support such a minister. He probably knows what a woman's talking about when she's in the government asking for the Prime Minister's resignation. So, all the news and announcements we've been listening to for six months ended with two changes. That's what we were talking about here. The first change is the division of one ministry into two, finance and economy, and the second change is the subject of my interest. The two ministries listed in this law amending and supplementing the Law on Ministries, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are changing competences. My question is – will Minister Nikola Selakovic and Ivan Mrkic resign? Will the new responsibilities in their ministries be considered as having the minister, as well as the text in amendments to the Ministry Act, that the ministries continue to work? Are Ministers Nikola Selakovic and Ivan Mrkic in the same position as Minister Zorana Mihajlovic, Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic, Minister Milan Bačević, Minister Rasim Ljajic, Minister Jovan Krkobabic, Sulejman Ugljanin as Minister without portfolio and Minister Velimir Ilic, whose ministries are not mentioned in this Law on Change and Supplements? On what basis are these ministers, who do not change the powers of the ministries, both Ministers Nikola Selakovic and Ivan Mrkic with changed powers also ministers once the law comes into force? My question may be unusual to you, perhaps you think it can be explained easily and simply, that it is understood, but I deeply believe that the procedure is also a culture and that nothing is understood, because it is a huge difference in whether nine members of the government will resign to the Prime Minister, which he will refer to the National Assembly, once this law comes into force, or 11 members of the government resign to the Prime Minister, who will then inform the Assembly? Ministers, or members of the government who must inform the president of their resignations, if there are no more resolution sessions, are ministers: Vukic, Knezevic, Petkovic, Dinkic, Minister Obradovic, Minister Mrkonjic and Minister Verica Kalanovic, Suzana Grubjesic and Alisa Maric. Those nine resignations are quite certain. What happens if ministers Nikola Selakovic and Ivan Mrkic fail to resign? Will he take an oath? These nine new ministers will certainly begin their mandate by taking an oath. Will we all mean that a sentence in the Ministry Act to continue working with changed powers, in the Ministry of Justice, is somewhat smaller, rich, but in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with considerable changes in jurisdiction, will it be understood that this Law on Ministrys has also been elected? If that's how ministers are elected, then why do we have a session to elect members of the government? It's not just a procedural matter, because nine ministers are less than half of the government's 19 members, and 11 are not, so at least in the short period 11 resignations, the government still fell, which is the highlight of the six-month government reconstruction story. I'm really asking this, and I'm asking for one good reason. After stopping the need for ministers at the level of the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, we allowed ourselves to become members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, without elections, without debate in the Assembly, by regulation of Foreign Minister Vuk Draskovic and Minister Rasim Ljajic. If it was justified then in the general context in which the country was located, there is now no justification. Do not leave any dilemma about whether Nikola Selakovic, the current and current justice minister with the powers he has under the previous Ministry Act, which is now changing, and Foreign Minister Ivan Mrkic, are still ministers. The answer to that question would help us not to share the ministers in the future with one who has sworn an oath, and the other is not. Not going into it at all whether or not these ministers will consider it a serious issue, I consider it serious, as I find it quite inconclusive the whole attempt to make six months of statements and news of what the intention is to do to melt into two small changes of which one even carries inconclusion about what will happen to the two ministries that are mentioned in this law on changes and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22153	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22154	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been asked one, at least, very important, but also a very interesting question, which can be answered by our current parliamentary or parliamentary practice. If memory serves me well, and you as someone present in several calls as a national MP in this assembly, when the final reconstruction of the government was carried out, which was in 2011, in some cases there was a merger of certain ministries, so from two ministries, into several ministries, but there were changes and additions to the work of the jurisdiction of some of the ministries. For example, at that time, several other responsibilities were allocated to the Ministry of Justice in the area, such as: the management of the property seized from the criminal offence, the preparation of the data protection regulation on the identity and confidentiality of the data, etc., but in those cases when no change in the name of the ministries occurred, and when the ministry continued to work, the minister who headed the ministry did not take an oath again. So that's how it was in 2011, so I guess that's how it's gonna be this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22155	Thank you. Right on line, MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22156	And in 2011, I had the same request, and I'm using this to remind you. And all those who earn that my request has not been fulfilled, I will throw it to them; then what has changed? If you will constantly repeat the mistakes of the previous ones and find an excuse, then the sentence that is said to be – with us will be better and this reconstruction of the Government will bring about a improvement, melt faster than the snow that melts in the August sun. The whole idea is not to repeat the mistake, the vagueness. That's why I mentioned 2006 and 2011, made by your predecessors. This is how it progresses - you do not repeat your mistakes, you do not call on others to justify your mistakes, for this cannot be done. So I can only make new mistakes. I have no doubt that this topic, however much the procedure is, is going to be public again, but if you are going to call without resigning for the reconstruction of the government in 2011, then the last little difference you've tried in these six months to enter is gone. Don't, resign, take an oath and make a change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22157	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22158	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is something called parliamentary practice and there is something called an established custom. Obviously, this was about something that represented a legal void in our legislation. If it's a mistake to mention that it was a 2011 mistake, it will mean that in the period from 2011 to July 2012, for example, my predecessor did not work under oath. The question arises as to how she acted, as each of the ministers in the previous government who had been completed by the work of jurisdiction and did not take an oath? Then do we feel that they've worked unencumbered by oath? Some things parliamentary practice establishes. We can, offered by what you mentioned earlier, introduce in future amendments the obligation to amend or supplement the jurisdiction of a ministry whose essence of activity or name is not changed and the minister is obliged to take an oath. But, I say, this is something that, in the parliamentary practice in Serbia, however long it lasts, this is how it stands up. Then why is your appeal not accepted? I really don't remember, and I don't know what the reason was.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22159	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22160	That's what I'm telling you. So you will draw your legitimacy from parliamentary practice. By not resigning and not taking an oath, you'll say that the previous case was quite fine. I suggest you make a new practice. Nothing else. Nothing more and nothing less. Only by making a new practice do you have the right to enter a dilemma about it and what happened to the previous submission of the resignations, or by not submitting the resignations, especially in the 2006 case, when members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia became members of the regulation of people who were never in the elections. I have no bad intentions, except that I deeply believe that every culture is at the same time a procedure and that we hold fast to knowing that the procedure should be that it will be better for all of us. You will agree on this, resign or not, but let's say this is a good opportunity to really regulate the additional regulations, what in some other cases of reconstruction, whether these same governments in six months, because if there were now six months of reconstruction of the total year of government can happen again in another case. In any case, I thank you for your response and I hope that our dialogue will help everyone to remove any dilemma about the legitimacy of Minister Ivan Mrkic and Nikola Selakovic in the ministries with changed responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22161	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can accept that through some symbolic attempt to introduce a new practice like taking an oath. I don't see that it's something that's essentially gonna make those ministers who took the oath, didn't resign, the other ministers were also in the government, they had to resign to be re-elected and to take the oath again. But new practice in Serbia already exists. For the first time, the president of the Republic of Serbia is no longer a member of a single political party. Isn't that a real, essential new practice? That's the one. For the first time, the president of a political party, the largest here in the Serbian Parliament, said he could not perform a quality duty and the defence minister and the duties of the first deputy prime minister of the government and gave up one of those functions. I don't remember a new finance minister from the reconstructed government in 2011, and then the prime minister, taking a new oath because he was prime minister. Because here in that government, he took the same oath. I do not think that such a symbolic act will affect the work of the government and that those changes that are to take place in the ministries should not only be personal, but essential, and therefore be reconstructed by this government to finally break down with a practice that has existed in Serbia for 25 years. Today, when Serbia is in a difficult economic crisis, we in Serbia have a cult of unhappiness, a cult of desire to work only in public enterprises... (President: Time. I'm not going to subtract.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22163	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22164	As soon as anyone enters into the assembly a motion to recall the president of Serbia, we will discuss his qualities, mistakes, good works of his work and so on. The impeachment of Serbia's president is not currently the topic of this session, but it is the subject of the government's reconstruction. I asked the question quite simply – will two ministers, whose ministries are subject to an amendment to this law and whose responsibilities in the ministry change, resign and be re-elected or not? The answer I got was: practice and I'm consensual. What I suggest is that this practice is changing. It will be respected or not be respected, but if you want to replace me with telling me that someone else has failed to resign or is not a member of the party, because I ask if Nikola Selakovic and Ivan Mrkic will resign, because their powers are changing, then I should ask further, because we obviously do not understand each other. I was under the impression that the minister and I in the dialogue were fully understood and I am pleased with the answer. I don't know what else you need me to explain. What about the Diaspora Office? What about everything there is? It doesn't say the same, but I think it's a topic for a session at which the Prime Minister will bring the names of new ministers after he sends us resignations from nine members of the government. My question can't be simpler, will he resign nine or eleven? No one I insult, no one I mention, and I don't mind being a minister to anyone who wants to be a minister, I ask a simple, procedural question, because after the election, the new members of the government take an oath. That's what the law says. The procedure is culture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22165	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22166	So that question that we have defined, I am convinced, both as some kind of legal void, should be defined by the Government Act, which is an appeal for future amendments and additions to the Government Act, to take that into account and to regulate the simple question that is seen to be missed. You mentioned one thing, and I think it's necessary to answer so we don't mix things up. With this addition to the department of foreign affairs' jurisdiction, it is not touched by the existence of a diaspora office. The diaspora office continues to exist, as the Office for Relations with Churches and Religious Communities has continued, that is, for religions, but there is a work that the office cannot carry out, but it is necessary to carry out the government's office in the ranks of the ministry, so these jobs are being sent to the foreign ministry's jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22167	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22168	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of the amendments and the addition of the Ministry Act we heard from you, you said this proposal was inspired by the insufficient development of the economy. That the principle of reconstruction is the grouping of related businesses and that MPs should say whether the law is bad or not. I think it's a lack of this proposal. The fact that you have focused on these key topics and it seems to me that six months in Serbia is the only topic of this famous reconstruction and what is happening around it. The reconstruction in Serbia was six months more important than anything, than graduation, from economy, from economy, health, living standards. The reconstruction in Serbia is six months more important than life. It's a crucial topic, and then we get a proposal to explain that you've been doing grouping some jobs. According to this proposal, you regrouped the only ministry of Mladjan Dinkic and reconstructed him. Everything else, according to this proposal remains the same, and there was space and it is completely illogical that the environmental protection buffer should not be separated. It is also completely illogical and unprincipled that the three ministries are engaged in building roads in Serbia. It is also completely illogical for the Ministry of Mining to be separated from the Ministry of Energy. Of course, you have your political reasons for this, and do Serbian citizens have reason to listen for six months about how you will resolve your political differences? Of course they don't. I think the Democratic Party has criticised Mladjan Dinkic enough. We said what we thought of him and the suggestions he made here. We had our proposals that were a good alternative. We warned that the 2012 rebalancing will not be good, that it is not good for such rebalancing to be adopted and that it will not contribute to improving the economic situation in Serbia. You weren't listening. You did not listen even when we warned you that the 2012 budget proposal was also bad, that it was unrealistic and that Serbia would be in a situation that the rebalancing would be much faster than expected. Of course, you didn't believe us again, and you didn't want to listen and we came up with a rebalancing. We've been against many of your legal proposals. We felt that they would reverse the situation in Serbia in every sense. That's what happened. It happened in a set of tax laws that were directly tossing their hands into citizens' pockets, and today it is an account for the citizens of Serbia. The Law on Planning and Construction, which abolished land conversion compensation, also, Mr. Ilic, who will not be reconstructed, was the legislator of the law, and to whom did the change go in favour and who profited from that change? We have strongly criticised the problems that were generated in the previous period, aflatoxin affairs, non-resolvement of problems in the economy, health care, education. Through these problems, we go through media spin, moving out of the public's focus on the most important social issues. The government's central failure site is a complete fiasco in economy and finance. That's quite clear today. Even you especially recognize this bill. Never a higher budget deficit, an increase in food prices by 13%, a new government debt of four billion, 40,000 less employees in the economy, party employment of 10,000 public sector personnel, are just some of the government's results. Unfortunately, we expected some policy proposals to help change the current situation in Serbia, along with this draft law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. It's not there. We're not looking forward to it, but we don't think the citizens of Serbia deserve this. The highlight of the inconsistency of cynicism, the disrespect of institutions, Serbian citizens, the Constitution, is the sale of hotels in Kopalnik, brother or friend, not at all. What is important is that the hotel was bought for a million and a half euros by the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate, and then used an interstate agreement to sell it without a tender, with a direct contract for a smaller amount than the government paid for it. It's something that's inadmissible. It's inadmissible in 2013 that this is happening. Vrešački Vineyards, who is responsible for this, as well as the hotel on Kopalnik? We expect you to tell us, Mr Selakovic, what Serbian citizens expect in the future. What do they expect from the sale of Telecom to be announced? We support the continuation of European integration, which is carried out by this government, because we are the ones who have promoted that policy for 20 years in Serbia. We're sorry you didn't think it was a good idea 20 years ago. We might be members of the European Union today. Finally, an interesting fact, as you and Mr. Vukic defend this reconstruction today, so Mladjan Dinkic defended the rebalancing in July 2013. I guess the message's clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22169	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinović has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22170	The Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, tells one, Velimir Ilic said a few days ago that the robbery and that the state charges the citizens of Serbia 500, 600 times more than the previous year. The story, two days ago or yesterday, the first deputy prime minister of the government, and in fact the fact that the prime minister of the government, appointed Prime Minister Dinkic as his deputy for the only and greatest, if any, investment with the Arab Emirates, on the proposal of the Emirates. Why did the Emirates suggest him? Because he gave them, as my colleague Ivan said, a hotel for 40% of the real value of that facility. What do these two stories say? We're all Mladjan Dinkic. All of you SNS and SPS gentlemen and others voted in favour of the laws of Mladjan Dinkic, when we here were panickingly saying that it would endanger this poor standard of citizens and that they would not be able to pay for their apartment or their house tax 700 times higher. You've kept your mouth shut and voted for those laws. You can't all observe the fact that it's kind of slipping into one dangerous zone of contract or two brothers – Mr. Vukic and Sheikh Muhammad. What was this government doing for six months? By law on reconstruction, this law, with practically two essential members, in which one ministry is separated and made of two. What was the government doing that was more reconstructed than it really manages this country? My predecessor, Mr Djelic, is right, which are ministers, who knew five or six months ago that they would be reconstructed, could work in the meantime. This country, meanwhile, was squirming in trouble. The problems have accumulated. Let's take a look at the ranks you're suggesting will continue to exist. You've led them so far. The Ministry of the Interior, never more crime than the tiniest to the organized as during this government. The finance ministry, what do you say and, as they say, don't cry? Never higher inflation, never less wages, never higher prices, never higher debt, etc. The foreign ministry, all we know, is that the former ambassadors arrive automatically after an emergency procedure, and the party line is being replaced. The defence ministry, the only thing I know as a result is that the current defence minister has owed the country a billion dollars, or I'm not sure if it's dollars or euros to buy new military planes. The Department of Traffic, not to mention, didn't cut the grass on as many roads as we built. They're not capable of that either. All the work stopped. There are no new investments in the area of traffic. The Ministry of Building and Urbanism, zero, projects for non-existent investments. The Department of Justice and the State Administration, the justice laws you were talking about when you went to the judicial reform elections, you pulled them out. Where are your laws? When will he be in the process? Your only valid result is the amnesty for now 3,000 prisoners, which we've heard are the greatest perpetrators of the crime. Ministry of Agriculture, aflatoxin, unpaid premiums, etc. Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, small graduation, outstanding earnings to scientific workers, etc. The health ministry has no drugs, no stents, hospital infections, children, cards, etc. The Ministry of Energy and Environment; it's never worse in the environment. The environment has been destroyed, the money has gone for some other purpose. Ministry of Culture and Information; ask the workers in the field of culture and information on what is the situation. These days you are one step away from shutting down the public service of the Vojvodina, and you have already destroyed the independence of the state public service. A few other ministries, I don't want to go further in detail, so I don't take time away from my colleagues who are going to talk. Anyway, this has been the worst government since 2000. This is a government that has good marketing but behind it nothing. Gentlemen, the responsibility for the fate of this country lies before you. This reconstruction with such laws brings nothing from the authority of a man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22171	Thank you. Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22172	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, here we are, already setting out, as they say, in some later, smaller hours, so sometimes some exposure really reminds us of some horror fairy tale or horrifying. I don't know how they exist alive in Serbia after what we just heard. I don't know where to start. It's a ruined environment. We're all irradiated, our hair is falling, we can't move. No drugs, no food, no diseases everywhere. Well, then come up and self-rule like, probably, some sort of memory of the past. With all due respect to a colleague who spoke before me, but I really don't know if you can believe the words you said here. There are laws that the Ministry itself has proposed to the Government, the government has proposed to the Assembly, for which your representatives voted in favour. I don't know how it happened then that's not good, if your MPs voted for it. Does this mean that you have also contributed to something evil, bad and destructive in Serbia? There are also a whole series of amendments that have been adopted, just proposed by your parliamentary group, or by your MPs. Does that also mean complicity in something that is devastating and bad for the Republic of Serbia? There are also some European Commission estimates that Serbia has made progress in implementing reforms in many areas, which I do not recall being to that extent and in such a way during a previous period. Does this mean that you have strayed from what is called the European road? Does this mean that you have a conflict of opinion from the official Brussels opinion when it comes to implementing reforms? Enough of what's been said. Tell me what's left of that political extremity called aflatoxin affair. Where has it been proven that it's been hard all along? It's probably been proven in hundreds of slaughtered lactic cattle, hundreds of unhappy farming households, tens of thousands of gallons of spilled milk. I don't know where it was proven, that there was this affair indeed. If someone is convinced of the launch of this affair, how did he do it, why doesn't he file criminal charges against those he accused of the affair? Really, I don't believe that there are people who can believe exactly what you said and I don't believe that any of us would exist here if it were really like you said. I don't see what it's all about with the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act. I know you don't mean it. I know you're a kind of lawyer and you know very well what it says, but let's talk about it then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22173	Thank you. Marko Atlagic, breach of the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22174	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm calling in an article. 106th and 107th. The MP, a previous speaker, Mr. Janko Veselinovic has carried out a series of insults to the dignity of the National Assembly and only to speak of the agenda point. Not only the insult, but also humiliated the dignity of the congregation. It is here on the agenda of the Ministry Act, not Mladjan Dinkic, not Mr. Vukic, Prime Minister, Mr. Veselinović, ma'am, you should have reacted, but Deputy Prime Minister etc. But it's no problem that Mr. Veselinovic is otherwise telling the truth. He's been telling lies all day since this morning about evasive and displaced faces. I, Mr. Vesenovic, was the 52nd witness in The Hague to defend Serbs in Croatia against the joint criminal act of Franjo Tudjman. The whole of Serbia and the whole world know that. How much did you advocate for the refugees you mentioned today in this Assembly over the past four years, they know best, and I needed the prosecution and the police to examine your activity four years ago and to see how you built that house in Croatia and of which money. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22175	I ask the People's MPs that we do not use the Institute for replication of the Rules of Procedure. As for the violation of Article 106, I must indeed admit that I did not realize Mr. Veselinović's exposure to this. I'm really sorry. The first reported to the replica was Vladimir Ilic, on behalf of the URS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22176	Dear Democrats, my colleague says, your obsession with Mladjan Dinkic is turning into pathology. You actually secretly admire him. He's your inaccessible idol and role model. Here we heard a bunch of nonsense, manipulation, data that had nothing to do with common sense. I'll give you some official data on our statistics. In 2012, – economic growth minus 2%, 2013. – plus 2.1; industrial production 2012. – minus 4%, 2013. - 4.2%; the unemployment you talk about so much in 2012. - 25.5%, 2013. - 24.1%; export 2012. - Plus 1%, 2013. – plus 21%; the budget deficit you also talk about a lot, for the first six months of 2013 26% lower than the same period in 2012, the deficit of the republican budget is 12% lower. So you were wondering what good is. Everything is better than when you led Serbia. The greatest success of this government isn't these results, it's not for Dick. It is that you are no longer in power. It's the greatest success. Let me remind you that you have destroyed 500m euros through two banks, Agrobank and Vojvodina Development Bank. It's the greatest result of your authority. And you today have the moral right to give any lessons. (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... and especially the United Regions. And to say, I am proud that Mladjan Dinkic was hired to be on the team negotiating with the Emirates. If that were not the case, if he had refused, you would be the first to say that he is not a patriot, that he is a traitor, for nothing is good to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22177	Thank you. Mr. Radenkovic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22178	Dear Vice-Presidents, I advertise the violation of Rules 107 and 108. You've hurt the Rules of Procedure. Perhaps you are experiencing Serbia as represented by counterpart Janko Veselinovic, I am not experiencing it. I'm horrified by what he said, that we're meeting, and so is the minister who found out, and I think you should have turned his attention. Because what he said about this country we live in, it doesn't look like one Democrats, one representative of the people in parliament. Give these examples to see Mr. Veselinovic. I don't know why such descriptions of the situation in this country. Do you want to scare this people that that's how it's gonna be? No, it won't be like that. We're going to get better. I'm asking you to keep an eye on what you're saying in the future, unless you really see such a situation from your point of view, that I'm not insulting you right now, I don't want to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22179	Thank you, dear Mr. Radenkovic. Just because I respect someone else's opinion and respect that someone thinks differently from me doesn't mean I feel the same way he does. So I am really trying to understand that all MPs have the right to state their political position. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22180	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when it comes to my esteemed DS colleagues, I'd just like to remind them of some things. About 13 months ago, they were talking about the NBS printing dinars and how the euro would go to heaven. It didn't happen. During the same period around the same time period, they said inflation would be the largest in Serbia's history, and today it is at the level of one number, a single-digit number and a constant decline. It's 8.8% right now. Which didn't happen from 2008 until 2012. If we're going to talk statistics. When it comes to the foreign ministry and ambassadors returning to Serbia, did my esteemed colleague also think of a consul in Chicago who was appointed in 2003, Mr Nikitaovic, who was appointed in 2003, mean during the DOS government, or DS and who took up credit, bought a house, and then rented himself to pay citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for a billion euros for the purchase of new planes, to try to get a esteemed colleague on Serbian Army fighter planes, some are his age to take off. There's only one problem. When the plane takes off, it has to land. And as for the billion-euro figures, it might be that much if the defence minister were DS. This is going to be about eight times smaller. As for the Ministry of Agriculture, and these famous aflatoxin affair, I have never seen in my political life that someone tendingly for small and cheap political points has destroyed a good part of Serbian agriculture and farmers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22181	Mr. Markicevic, a replica of Mr. Veselinović's exposure. Is that what you wanted?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22182	The esteemed chairman, the respected citizens of Serbia, who are still watching this transmission, wanted me to say a few sentences as a replica of Mr. Veselinovic's presentation. I would not really appear in these tiny hours after all that today's citizens of Serbia have heard, unfortunately, in this House, if he hadn't used a few words. He says, speaking of the Ministry of Urbanism and Construction, Velimir Ilic is zero. Mr. Veselinović, with such a story, if I were a cynic, I'd say you're the only one to continue. For a year now, you've been talking like that and your ratings have been falling off like strangers, and someone's ratings are growing, just because you're telling the truth. I must remind you that your president, namely the Honorary President, as President of the National Infrastructure Council, will not talk about the constitutionality of this body as it was formed, has abolished our citizens of western Serbia the possibility of traveling through modern highways. So I'm talking about Corridor 11. There's Mr. Veselinovic for your information, I think you're from Vojvodina, so you're not well informed. I will be your host, to see thousands and literally thousands of machines and thousands of workers who break through tunnels and make overpasses, bridges and all in a row. I don't know how you don't remember the oak story. So this government and every government needs an opposition. I'm honestly telling you, for many years I've been an opposition, that you have the wrong tactics. So, criticise and I may personally support you for some things that weren't good in this government, and that's why the government's reconstruction is being done, and don't say what all Serbian citizens know, especially those who pass through the Ibar Highway, see that they are working there, literally hundreds of machines. And let's have some fun, I'm really going to have to trust Tianic and these returners of yours who are still giving you advice. Go ahead, my advice is to you, leave yourself to the psychic Zorka, maybe engage a little bit with Grandpa Milo or be a serious opposition party as you were during some periods, and I can tell you that openly and admit it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22183	Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22184	It's very interesting how the truth hit you all in a row. Is the state of health better than I said? I think it's worse. Is the state of school better than I said? I think it's worse. Is the situation in the other listed areas better than I said? I think it's worse. So that's why you gentlemen change 70% or 60% of ministers, which is why you change Obradovic, which is why you change Knezevic. Come to your senses. Serbia is in the hardest position since 2000. You brought her into this situation. Don't change the thesis. You've been in power for over a year. Unfortunately, some of you see reality as pink glasses. That's where our perception differs. For you, the state of health is probably good. Maybe you're treating yourself in some other way. Maybe you're not waiting in line. Maybe you didn't take a prom today that wasn't worth a damn. The students laugh and baptize along the way, making them lay something that's been annulled in advance. Mr Selakovic, who is not here now, you have abolized, or amnested three thousand people who have been convicted and to the most severe crimes. True, we have supported the many laws that this government has proposed and have been facing the EU and some reform, unlike you who, while we have always been in power, have planted our wheels in our wheels, but unfortunately you have not applied those laws. You have reduced your authority to one man's power, to a dictatorship. In the end, let me just say, my house was just set on fire by those who were indoctrinated by the idea of the one they were celebrating here today, during the time my parents were inside.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22185	Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22186	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is not in the most difficult situation today, it was last year at the end of July and early August 2012, it was on the verge of bankruptcy, it was in a decline in industrial and any production, it was in an increase in unemployment. It's all been stopped by this government. The story of who enforces the laws, and who does not enforce them, I think that some DS colleagues should not teach us about it because we have passed a bunch of laws that have not been implemented, even when good laws have been passed and when they should have produced one good result because of various political, economic, tycoon and other relationships, these laws have been ruined. I mentioned a foreign exchange law. He's talking about a little graduation. You know what, Mr. Obradovic wasn't just in this government, he was in yours. I don't want to do much here right now. But there is always a simple question – how is it that some who were with you in power were good then, and today they are not good? If they weren't good, then why did you put up with them? Why don't you go to the election and we'll solve this problem? You are constantly talking here about early parliamentary elections, and for four years, at any cost, you have stuck to power since 2008-2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22187	Time, Mr. Arsic. Borislav Stefanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22188	Mr. Arsic, let me tell you one thing. I'm sorry we still can't speak the language of numbers. And we always go back to this same story – we bring you the data, you say it's not true and you bring out these pink, pink data and everyone goes home, and the citizens of Serbia look and believe you, and from the SPS, and from the URS, and from the SNS, and from the NS, who you've all got up, there's this Peasant Party, I apologize, which you all got up and got hit – this is terrible, what does this look like? No one in their right mind can be pleased with this, no one in this country. And instead of talking about why it's like that, what you're going to do to change it, you're still going to talk about it – you know what, I've scattered this house, but I've got it less scattered than you do. That's not true. And I said, I don't want to get into that controversy anymore. But I want to get into the polemics when they lecture us about my party. So, DS, now you're gonna hear how you failed. And I told you today, both Mr. Selakovic and Mr. Vukic, since we don't exist, we're a statistical mistake, gentlemen, at least you're always talking, and you're the same man who just got up to get on someone's list, so you guys wouldn't spend five minutes and not 15 years fighting those quasi-ajdas that you represent, all together. Not you to us, at least have so much dignity, that the DS is giving lectures. Whether we have it or not, that's what the citizens of Serbia will say. But you just relax and keep doing what you've done so far. Everyone will believe you. It's just, it's beneath every level. (President: Time.) And to you, the chairman, I appeal. Don't let this sort of thing, the sermons of that low character, make people talk to us again. Based on what evidence? What banks? What kind of party does that have to do with anything? What does that look like? What does DS have to do with that bank you mentioned? Now present the evidence, or present evidence to the National Savings Bank. Now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22189	Veroljub Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I could agree with a colleague from the DS, but on one condition -- that the SNS started from scratch in 2012 reforming the country. It's not from zero, we're starting from a fat minus. That's the problem. Look at the budget - deficit 173 billion. And how many credit and interest payments from the previous period? More than half. Is the DS responsible for the situation in Agrobank and Vojvodjanska Banka? We can talk about that too. Maybe someone else came and said that money was gone. But there is one problem – you were responsible for the work of the two banks. Accept that part of responsibility. Why did you start a new Agrobank? How come the December 2011 report said that the bank was liquid, and then only a month later that it was in the thick minus? How did that happen? What independence of the central bank were you talking about then? Who could have ordered that to the governor? What happened to the vice governor who was in charge of those banks? Nothing. He didn't even have moral responsibility. But that's why we had to secure 500m or 600m euros from the budget, meaning the money from the citizens of Serbia, to cover the loss. That's where the loans come from. That's where the deposit came from. (President: Time.) That's where our business comes from.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22191	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22192	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have advocated a fundamental reconstruction of the government. I even said I wouldn't vote for the government unless she had a fundamental reconstruction. Today I don't think that's our main problem. Today, I think that before the government, the opposition, that is, the former government, or party that was the bearer of the government, should be changed. I think it's very bad for citizens not to change in the opposition's first next election, those who will oppose such a government, as they say, very badly. I don't have anyone in the government. I can be objective. I've never exercised power, I wasn't a member of the board of directors, not even at the republican level. I usually end up being a representative of the citizens and trying to be realistic. I can agree with the opposition that the situation is not good, that Serbia is a rich country, a rich and fertile country where poor and hungry people live. I can agree with them because it's their fault. One leader said that there are rich countries that have all gold and diamonds, natural wealth, but they are poor and their citizens are poor, he also said that there are countries that have none of it, but they are rich and their citizens are rich and because people are organized, and it's all up to the organization. The man was the party leader who is now in the thick opposition and who no longer resembles himself. I can agree with a lot, but when I came here after a fat break in 2012, I found a public debt of the country, so only after a few years, we left a public debt that was five or six billion, and when I got back, the public debt was over 17 billion. And not only that, the debt of the economy was 15 billion, and the trade deficit was one to two. On one euro of exports, we had two euros in imports. We found the debt of five billion citizens, the total foreign debt of the country, the economy and the state was $36 billion, we found a deficit that was almost two billion. We also found the commitments that this year were supposed to be with interest of 3.5 billion. Only interest rates this year are 900 and some billions, and that's interest on that debt at the time when it was spent and when it was wide, when it was living on the person in charge, not on the earner, when the loans were withdrawn to get their members and their loved ones settled in jobs. Citizens have not benefited from that and the debt structure is worse than the debt. Most of the debt was high interest rates, short-term loans, with commitments that amount to over three billion, and next year with interest, we have to pay back the 4.5 billion debts you've left. The structure of the debt was creepy, but what's worse on all that debt you didn't leave a source for repaying the debt. The economic activity was almost nothing. I'm not saying it's just your fault. Serbia may have shared the fate of former Yugoslav republics that have become their fault, by breaking a better state, become their second-rate and third-rate colonies. Serbia shares that fate, but the responsibility of the former government is doubtless. This is where we heard everything and everything. Generally speaking about the government, the debate on its results, and the less talk about the bill, the less talk about the upcoming reconstruction, has tried to find faults for those who have to take out the stains, which have undoubtedly remained behind the party of the former regime, which recently won the entire 3%. Since they talked about the ministries, I'll only mention some. If there are results, there is no doubt in the fight against corruption. So it's safe to steal less. Even members of the former regime's party, where they form, were a little afraid, so they're stealing less from the inside now, and I think even in Vojvodina, they're stealing less, or they're getting a little pinched over the fight against corruption. So, no doubt it has results. The results are weaker than I expected, but since the minister of justice is here, he can explain it. The fight against corruption here has one flaw, which is that the judiciary and the prosecution have finally become independent of power but only from the present one. From the former government, the prosecution is not independent, at least not in general, and I am responsible for that. That's why the charges are bad, that's why it's being handled very slowly. So we have a judiciary that depends on the former government, at least in half of the cases, and it obstructs a better and more effective fight against corruption that would follow. As for the Ministry of Agriculture, I'm sorry the Minister of Agriculture isn't here, but I offered to resign if this affair is 100% correct. So I wanted my MP's ID back if there were 60 thousand tons of aflatoxin corn in public warehouses. I was looking for emergency control and she was. That corn is not any aflatoxic, and the whole affair is designed to cover up that shortfall and destroy supposedly infected corn that wasn't at all. So the failure by the former authorities tried to cover up those who most likely bought apartments in Vienna for the money. The subsidies you paid for the vineyards you then destroyed, subsidies paid for the various peasants from the city, should not be spoken of. Let's talk a little bit about defense, if we don't buy the planes, we'll lose control of the flight. This is certainly clear to you that the country that collects income on this basis must also have appropriate aviation due to certain situations. So I think it's necessary to buy those planes. But it was not necessary to buy a 5,000-euro Carthier Road Star, Carthier Road Star Gold, ten thousand euros, and Sopard Chronograf four thousand five hundred euros, Brigette Gold Rose 15 thousand euros, Frank Miller Turbion 40,000 euros. What I've listed is not aircraft stamps, these are marks of former defence minister's watches, which had the salary of a thousand euros, and miracles have watches carried by Queen Victoria, Napoleon, Maria Antoinette, Winston Churchill. Come on, pick that moral nugget that I could compare it to. He was talking about riding a tiger, riding a crisis. Of course he didn't ride that tiger, not because he was afraid of the tiger, but because he was afraid that the tiger wouldn't bite that hand with such an expensive watch. So, those watches, 14000-euro flights, and something else, your former defence minister had no confidence in state school, educated children at an international private school in Belgrade. One child's tuition costs 20,000 euros a year, and he paid for two, and now I'm asking, I'm sorry, the chairman... (President: Please don't go in, leave your family's problems out of this topic. They're not family. (President: Well, they are. It's not family, it's the government's problems, I'm sorry, I won't do it anymore. I'm just saying that it was the government's problems, mistrust in the state's education system, that's what I'm talking about. So, without even mentioning the name of the individual, let alone the name of the children, I don't think of it. (President: You mentioned schooling children, therefore, is enough for me. Well, I'm sorry, I had to say that it was done at a private school, that the tuition was very large, just to prove that he had no confidence in the state school system even though he was a minister in that government. Here's to being understood so that someone doesn't completely understand my words and my claims. So, the salary was thousands of euros, just what I counted without building on that first-class pasture pasture next to St. Sava's Temple, most likely that it would be, that it was a father-in-law, he usually sings about white sheep, these are white buildings, and that investment costs about 400,000 euros. So, I admire my colleague, Micunovic, and I give him the fact that he kicked two defence ministers out of the O.R., but I advise him to throw out the former defence minister's parties as well. So, don't be nervous, I'm not saying that everything is ideal, the economy is gone, we haven't even found it, what we've restored – it's not ideal and I'm thinking about how to vote for the government, she's had her failures, but I think in these circumstances, complex circumstances, which have been left behind and couldn't have been better. I believe that this government, which if elected, will do even better as far as the election is concerned, if the parties I spoke to want, best to organise them first in Vojvodina, there are the strongest ones, so let's see how it goes, that's my advice, that'll catch a good run at parliamentary elections, if they want to listen to it. I'm afraid the weather behind us was very difficult, and the consequences are long-term, because those who ran the country were only organized to fill their wallets. They were about to think about it, not to take care of the people, who had almost nothing to eat, they shared good and evil with that people, by taking good for themselves, and leaving evil for the people, and they finally need to put an end to it. Thank you. The chairman. Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22193	You see, this is, Mr. Chairman, so I'm counting, at least 20, 30 times, maybe not you personally, but every chairman violates Article 106, 107, 108, choose which of these members you want, and that's exactly what this job is about. So, this is really below every level, to bring out these things about someone, completely unverified and proven, and to let it be said that a man has something without any evidence, in this way trying to criminalise DS, which they won't succeed, as if I were now to get up and say, for example, that this MP gave money to be an MP and that through a big businessman, that he has a Rolls Royce gold in his house, that he forged the seal from his firm, and I'm not saying, do you understand me? So you can't let that sort of thing happen to you, or any chairman, because it's a lie. If it's not a lie, then there must be evidence that it's exactly what he said, as I wouldn't think of saying it, because it's not true, that they shouldn't do it, and no one should do it in this assembly to tolerate it, even if it's a man who serves them, the authorities, the entertainment regime, and who serves the dirtiest, least possible impulses they serve. You know very well that we do not usually respond to the replicas of such volumes, because it goes to them, essentially.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22194	Mr Stefanovic, I think you were a witness when I asked the previous speaker (Borislav Stefanovic, from the site: You did not ask when the false things were listed. I have to admit, I can't, I can't, and it's not mine to question who's lying, who's not lying. Unfortunately, the practice here is for everyone to step off the subject a little bit, not a little bit but quite a bit. It's more about the other and the least about what's on the agenda. On that side, I agree with you, and so I ask the Members of Parliament to really move on to a subject that's on the agenda. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22195	Mr. Chairman, I am advertising the violation of Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, and in relation to Article 27, where it is said that the Vice-President of the National Assembly is helping the president of the National Assembly to carry out operations from his work, but you are not said to have more authority than the president of the Assembly. You should have interrupted the previous speaker, because this level of insult, this level of untrueness, so it wasn't seen in this House. This has not been seen in the history of Serbia's parliamentaryism, that a man who doesn't know how to see through and say the exact time in class is now making accusations at the expense of DS MPs about what watches he has. You know, bringing out such data offends the dignity of this home, insults the dignity of the MP. What's to happen to a man now? To go out into the street and wait for those who forge stamps, to beat him up, and ask for his watch, and he doesn't have a watch. Look, this is a criminal charge, which this MP does. He urged criminals, who have been amnesty, to enter the apartment of Dragan Sutanovac now, to rob his apartment and search for those watches. Is that what we're supposed to wait for? And that should be expected of these, to co-operate with criminal groups, because they amnesty, because they commit crimes. And now we need to fear for the safety of Dragan Sutanovac whether someone will rob his house because of such lies and lies and fiction. Well, that's scandalous. This is a misdemeanor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22196	Mr Milivojevic, I can only say to you that in time I reacted when he began to present on the personal problems of the MPs. I fully agree that this is not supposed to be a topic here, and we have to take care of the dignity of each of our MPs, and I stand for it. Do I always react at the right time, probably not to accept it as my own, say, mistake, but so I ask that you all help me here and not to use problems that are not the subject of debate. The violation of the Rules of Procedure is advertised by MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22197	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 108. - on the agenda of the National Assembly, the president of the National Assembly. All I think is that someone is trying to challenge it, take over the leadership of the National Assembly, and that, according to their subjective wish, prescribes how MPs should speak, what they should say, what brands they can read, what brands cannot, what in their speeches should do. It's best if I give my speech up front to the review. But I don't write them, so I'll always have to write it in the future, take it to a review in a party that's so rebelling, they'll let me talk, which I have the right to talk about, etc. As far as I can remember, they've deliberately advocated that, let's say, the speaker is not responsible for the words spoken for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22198	Please don't lead the line now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22199	No, I'm just saying they're trying to take the lead session. In order not to owe, I'm not asking for this to be voted on, but I have to notice something about this attempt to lead the session, taking over the chairman's authority. I think our health care is really in bad shape when I listen to the shows I've been listening to before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22200	I didn't realize that the wish of the MPs who advertised the violation of the Rules of Procedure was that they wanted to take the lead in the session. They were right, in my opinion, to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22201	And one more thing, I never mentioned the name to anyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22202	National MP Borislav Stefanovic is advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22203	Members 106 and 107 again. So, you have now heard the argument that says quite the opposite of what we have stated, and we say very precisely - if such a practice is accepted without the chairman's warning, and you have not warned the MP again, then it continues and continues and never ends, because then everyone, the chairman, can in this assembly, any MP, for his colleague to say whatever comes to his mind, anything, because it doesn't matter, and there must react. We only asked you to act and ask you to warn the MP because, despite your intervention, he suggested that we should go to the doctor, that something was wrong with us. So, do you see what's going on here? Here while decent Serbia is silent and while we are retreating, the smarter it gives, these situations, such a mockery of parliamentaryism, impoliteness, prosacredness, should lead us to this assembly. I urge you not to allow it. I'm sure Nebojsa Stefanovic wouldn't allow it either. This is a shame, this is the bottom and this is, unfortunately, the true face of this parliamentary group on the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22204	My right is when I'm going to warn and who I'm going to warn. Please, as far as it's concerned, it's exclusively the right of the chairman, and as far as the speech is concerned, I think I've reacted as well. Now, whether you are satisfied or not, you have the right to state whether or not the Rules of Procedure has been injured or not in the voting day. Mr. Stefanovic, are you asking the Assembly to make a statement on this in the voting day? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: No. Mr. Granny, on what basis are you looking for a word? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. A parliamentary group belonging to MP Marijan Risticevic is mentioned. Mr. Granny, you have no right to a replica. There has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure and is exclusively directed towards the chairman. So, advertising all the violations of the Rules of Procedure are according to the chairman, not to you, MPs. Therefore, if anyone hurts, you know it well. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. You can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22205	I'm advertising the breach of Rule 107 of the Rules of Procedure. The dignity of the National Assembly has been violated. Although sometimes I'm a little louder, louder and sharper in my presentations, I don't support a hate speech, because hate doesn't do any good to society that an individual hates, not to him personally, but not to the society he belongs to. I don't even support this parliament turning into a talking room and exposure to dirty laundry. I did this parliament to be an arena, a place to debate facts, but I did, like all people in Serbia, a people in Serbia value principled people, people who cherish...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22206	Mr. Granny, I'm asking you the same thing. You're abusing the Rules of Procedure. You advertised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22207	Because something is said that doesn't stand and that's how the Rules of Procedure, article 107, is injured, and I'm going to prove it to you in the next few sentences. Standards must be the same. Standards can't be swimming. If something is mentioned, and someone is someone's, I'll keep quiet, and if something like what was just said that the defence minister owed this country a billion euros, then we kept our mouths shut, then there's no disturbed dignity of the Assembly, then it's great and then it's the right thing to do, and then it's a political struggle. It's just not like that. If Mr Stefanovic wanted to be principled, then he had to say so about his parliamentary group in order to direct such criticism to other parliamentary groups. Be principled and have the same arches for everyone. You can't look at the reality of both the truth and the life in Serbia just one eye and how it suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22208	I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been injured, and you can plead whether or not you want to vote on the day of the vote. No, I don't. ) National MP Borislav Stefanovic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22209	Namely, Articles 106 and 107. - an MP should not speak to another MP, even when the Rules of Procedure is advertised. Since I had all the time for him to address his MP when he talked about it, about hate speech and everything. Since that would be more appropriate, otherwise, when we presented a billion-dollar information, if you weren't there, your MP group denied it and that was the Democratic Party's assessment, is it true, you say it wasn't, we say it was. And that's it. But if I were to stand up now and say that you have 80 houses, Mr. Babic, that you have 15 firms in Vranjska Banja, just to be clear, these are things that you cannot allow as head of MPs who act like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22210	I won't allow you a replica. Zoran, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22211	The same violation of the Rules of Procedure I advertise, as Mr Stefanovic did, and it is indeed, in my five-year experience, I have not experienced parliamentaryly, that someone is advertising the injury of the Rules of Procedure, because of the feeling that someone has spoken to someone personally, and then does the same. (President: You did not say a member. ) Article 105, 106, 107, 108, whatever it takes, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate your desire to introduce this into some quieter and more normal flows, and here we are entering the 12th hour of a very bile and very heated debate, but it is really inappropriate for the Assembly to advertise the injury of the Rules of Procedure, because of a personal feeling or a view, possibly addressed, and then at the same time the same thing is done and directly addressed to another MP. Please, Mr. Chairman, sanction it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22212	The word is Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22213	I thank the esteemed chairman, honourable ministers, for what the entire public has been talking about for the past month, mostly both the position and the opposition, and it seems to me that so far there has been no political issue that has reached such agreement between the opposition and the position, which is the need to establish a new environment ministry as an independent ministry. What is said very loud, however, are economic freedoms and this is being talked about everywhere, but it is forgotten that in the 21st century economic freedoms and economic needs of citizens and citizens of a country mean. It never seems to me, beyond one initiative that we started a year ago when we discussed the Ministry Act, the Law on Government, we said that one ministry could not be in three different ministries and "green" that they kept saying for a year, that I said there was no more political authority behind that initiative, but we have no result, unfortunately. The challenges of the green economy and the challenge of creating a single capital fund, a green investment fund, a development fund, and unfortunately without minimal, efficient and responsible environmental administration, we will not be able to develop green public procurement or green economy. I'm interested, you should explain to us how now, as so far as this year, how the Minister of Environment will control the Minister of Energy, how the Minister of Natural Resources will control the Minister of Mining that destroys natural resources, and I would like you to give us an answer as long as this anti-ecological policy of the Government lasts, how long will it take for the non-purpose spending of ecological money from pollution fees, and it has been going on for a year now and just to tell you that there is an example in the EU, Germany has a special ministry, France has a special ministry and some countries in the East have a special ministry and our favorite country in the East, of course, has a special ministry for environmental protection. We are expected to invest between 11 billion and 14 billion according to estimates, how much euros is needed to repair and bring standards and quality of the environment in Serbia, we are not ready for this, and we are not, by all accounts, going to be prepared. It's not the oak that children don't have drugs, it's the incompetent ministers and the incompetent directors of the republican funds and the miracles that the story was brought about a year ago. By some miracle a year ago, some ministry was divided into three ministries and we warned you more than two months ago, and before you hit the oak, watch out for the people you'll hit the oak, you didn't listen to us, and now that we're moving towards the EU, and here we support you, as we supported you in the negotiations on Kosovo, "green" tell you to stray on that road, because we don't have a special ministry and no matter how small the topic of environmental protection seems, it will cost more than 30% of all the negotiations and ultimately, it doesn't matter whether we arrive in the EU or not, the most important question is how we will fix the state and quality of the environment in Serbia, how we will cure the citizens, and then we will probably reach ourselves in the EU. We should be bringing her here, not trying to get us there, not doing anything. We must not sit on our hands for the next three years without the Ministry of Ecology, then you will wonder, how is it that ecology this important, and we do not have a special ministry, and therefore we appeal once again that the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, the sooner it forms, also has this proposal with the Prime Minister. Three months ago, they sent this to the Deputy Prime Minister, and we can help you at any moment to make it according to European standards, but obviously you don't need any help.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22214	The word is made by the People's MP Maja Vidinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22215	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is on the agenda to deceive citizens in a form that has really not been seen for a very long time. Today, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act is on the agenda. At first, I have to ask the question – is it possible that today in Serbia, the most important law the parliament should discuss is the Ministry Law. Is it possible that there is no more important problem and more important topic on which MPs would gather and discuss. Why are we discussing the Ministry Act today, as an introduction to the government's reconstruction, because today in Serbia, six months is the most important topic of government reconstruction. The subject was initiated by the government's own members, the subject being prepared by those who make up the government. Those who spoke of their own government as the best government in the past 20 years, those who said they were the best ministers Serbia had in the past 20 years. So these same best ministers from the best government Serbia has had in the past 20 years are proposing reconstruction and they are pushing for it to be a fundamental, deep, essential, valuable, pre-election position today because it is more than clear that the government has fallen. It will be formed in the next few days as long as it takes for you to find the people you're going to propose and find the plan and the program you're looking for in a way that is offensive and for the policy you're going to implement, and for the people you're going to propose, a new government will be formed with some obvious, newly reconstructed policy, which has not received support from citizens in the elections. If it weren't for the deception of citizens, you'd deny me the simplest answers to just a few questions, since this is a public deception and a distraction that's been going on for six months, I'm just asking a few questions. Why will some ministers be replaced? Because they were doing bad things? I think you have a duty to tell the citizens exactly why they did wrong, actually what was wrong with their work. Do you maybe replace them because they did well, but they can do better, how unknowingly trying to convince us of our colleagues from the biggest party in power? Does this mean that those who stay did a great job, that there is no better one than them and that no one can do better? Does this mean that Velimir Ilic can't do better than he does, there's no possibility of anyone doing better? There's no better than Bačević? There is no better expert to come up with a more necessary and necessary for Serbia's megalomanic project. Dinkic did a bad job, and that's why you threw him out, and for a year, you voted for it. You've had a bad time in all of this, and you've been a bad supporter. Why will Minister Petkovic be replaced, I am alive interested? Will it be removed because he was silent when the disgraceful lists of unspeakable cultural deputies were made, or will he be removed because he is unable to resolve the financing of public services, or will he be removed because he has abolished the financing of cultural manifestations of national importance? Tell me exactly what the man will be replaced for. Minister Obradovic, I find that completely unclear. Why will Minister Obradovic be removed when he is not guilty of an affair over a small graduation for which, we all know, is the guilty printery worker, and he is absolutely not responsible for anything? Why exactly will Minister Obradovic be removed? Is it because the students in the tests get the worst results possible? Is it because there's never a smaller budget for science and education? Is it because, for the first time, scientists are on the streets? I think you owe the citizens, not us, the answer, after six months of distraction, why exactly these ministers will be replaced. If you run away from the fact that they were doing bad or the fact that they were doing good and that they could do better, then we get into a situation that is possible because of what one man wanted. It's one man who, in these years, decides to move oak from the level of aflatoxin, which we hear today is actually made up. I just want you to inform countries in the region and EU countries that the aflatoxin affair that covered their area was invented only in Serbia. It's a man who decides on Kosovo and Metohija. It's a man who decides the situation in football clubs. It is a man who decides on the treatment of children abroad, not according to our claims, but by the recognition of the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. This society cannot be changed, modernised, nor can Serbia be a country that is progressing towards the EU, if the most important and all decisions in this country are made by one man. So, this year, the year that you've been marking solemnly, with your own replacement, is the year of public dizziness. On the other hand, we have the fact that there is not one single area today in Serbia where there is a better living and something improved compared to the previous year, none, on the contrary. No research of public opinion, according to which you have 128%, reality in Serbia cannot change. You're being denied reality. The reality is that this is definitely the worst government since 2000. Today Serbia is a country that does not respond to human rights threats. Today, Serbia is a silent country when lists of unspeakable, traitorous individuals are being made. Today, Serbia is a country where decisions from institutions have been taken to party press conferences and meetings of the chairmanships and main committees of parties, which, fortunately or unfortunately, have the opportunity to watch TV with national frequencies. Today, Serbia is a country that replaces the governor of the National Bank, which replaces the Supreme Cassation Court president, in which he is silent about attacks on independent bodies, where criminals amnesty. As a result, we have a double increase in the number of crimes committed by the streets, in which there is a string between certain tabloids and media, and thus there is a media lynch, where people are accused through the media, they are tried without evidence. It's a country where we haven't got a date to start negotiations yet, or we've got it, but no one today can say exactly what the date is, a country where criticisms have been silenced, where one man asks questions about everything. It's a country that's falling into one mind. From solving all these problems, and I just want to leave time for my colleagues to say a word, and unfortunately for the citizens of Serbia to list them so much, you chose to offer to the citizens, on your own anniversary when you change, this circus of reconstruction, which, at his time, you spoke best of yourself. We have spoken to you over the past year, pointing to the adverse consequences of what you do. Citizens talk about you every day, when they go to the store or to the market, patients when they wait for therapy or try to find a cure, students when they question whether it's worth learning and working at all, parents when they're afraid that their children will return safely. You said the best thing about reconstruction, accusing each other and threatening the course of this reconstruction. And today we have statements that this reconstruction is neither fundamental nor essential, because the police minister remains a police minister, he is a prime minister, nor a reconstruction exists at all because the first vice-president of the government is not prime minister. So this is a farce and all that I've brought out to every man today in Serbia is clear that it is a public deception. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22216	Since the People's Messengers Aleksandar Senic and Jelena Trivan are not here, Srdjan Milivojevic has the word. You have two minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, this draft law on ministries that is on the agenda today is the result of nine months of labor that have not been completed by the adoption of this law. In the history of parliamentaryism, one government has not fallen for nine months. The government's downfall began with a billion-euro budget and is still going on. You're probably candidates for the worst government in the 21st century. It's no wonder this government, the backbone of this government, is made up of those parties that have made not the worst government of the 20th century. It was last time the worst government since the Southern Slovenians came to the Balkans. The worse administration of Serbia had none. Worse people to find who took such bad care of state and national interests we couldn't find. When you talk about robbed money today, you know, somebody's gonna pay you back. He'll be tried. You've stolen so much. We've passed the law of confiscation of property acquired by crime, but unfortunately, the dead will not rise from the graves. They will not stand up to the politics of Karlobag – Karlovac – Ogulin – Virovitica never. Today, when you claim that the greatest extent of this government is that you have achieved incredible achievements in the way of European integration. On behalf of the truth, on behalf of justice, on behalf of the people of Serbia, who, on 5 October, confirmed the freedom aspirations of the citizens of Serbia, I must ask you - who called the 90 citizens of Serbia who advocated the European future traitors and foreign mercenaries? Who mutilated, killed and black-headedly howled millions of citizens of this country who believed Serbia was the place in the EU? For whom and whose policies did the citizens of this country suffer sanctions? Because of Dragoljub Micunovic, Boris Tadic? Was it Zoran Djindjic, Slavko Curuvija, Ivan Stambolic? Did you hear any final words about the murder of those people? Do you know any of those mentioned in the final words of prosecutors and judges? I have to ask you when you're saying today that you're the most responsible for Serbia's European future, do you remember your political biographies by 2000? It took you 23 years to realize that Serbia's future is in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22218	The word is from MP Bajro Gegic. Five minutes is at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22219	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Sanjak Party of Democratic Action has been taking part in the Government of the Republic of Serbia since 2005, and since 2008, Mr. Sulejman Ugljanin has been the minister without portfolio, in charge of developing underdeveloped areas and head of the government's office formed for this purpose. The Party of Democratic Action has entered the government of the Republic of Serbia with the intention of helping solve many of the problems that are present in our society, to help quickly and efficiently join our country, protect and improve the rights of the Bosniaks, ensure the development of undeveloped areas, especially the Sandzak region. The office for sustainable development of underdeveloped areas deals with 46 municipalities with about a million inhabitants. The degree of development of these municipalities is below 60% of the republican average. According to the Agency for Business Registers, the amount of incentives allocated to underdeveloped municipalities in 2012 is 3.15% of the total funds allocated to the Republic of Serbia and from 2010 onwards, the percentage is constantly falling. The amount of incentives in underdeveloped areas per capita is 9,797 dinars in 2012, while in the rest of Serbia the amount is 19,930 dinars. According to the Agency for Business Registers, the number of companies and entrepreneurs in underdeveloped municipalities is constantly falling. Thus, for example, the number of entrepreneurs in 2005 was 3,943, and in 2013, 1,868. The number of companies was 441, and this year 207. Of the 173 foreign direct investment since 2000, only three concerned underdeveloped municipalities totalling 14m euros, which is 0.001% of total foreign direct investment. The foreign investment and export promotion agency allocates from 4,000 euros to 10,000 euros per job under its programmes. The average amount of funds so far allocated to underdeveloped municipalities is 4,750 euros. The overall budget of the Office for Sustainable Development of Not Developed Areas in this year is 487,263,000 dinars or 0.047% of the Republic of Serbia's budget. It is easy to conclude undeveloped areas with this relationship of society and with such modest budgets the Office cannot develop in a sustainable way or in any way. On the contrary, the gap in the development of this area and the rest of Serbia will continue to increase and increase. For all this, Minister Ugljanin supported the government's reconstruction initiative and made a concrete proposal. The office for sustainable development of underdeveloped areas should grow into a ministry, with higher powers and budgets or join another ministry, because it could only respond to the purpose for which it was formed. In this bill of law that is before us does not exist, but I think it is not too late and that this proposal should be accepted. Regardless, we will vote for this law in the voting day, because we believe that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will recognise the need for a more rapid development of an underdeveloped area and, in the future, to allocate significantly more funds for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22220	Thank you, too. The word has a National MP, Momo Colaković.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22221	I asked myself a question before I got up, whether there was anything new to say about the draft law on the separation of these two ministries, or about the ministries, in a positive or negative sense. I realized there's not much to add. That's why I'll speak very briefly. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction on behalf of the parliamentary group that our idea of three, four months ago has matured and accepted that these two ministries form from one ministry. We started it because we think that in these areas and these functions of the state are the biggest problems, not because we thought someone was bad at it. That's what I have to say in public. That is why we think this law should be supported and we support the arguments made by the minister regarding the bill. What are the reasons, today there was a lot of words about it. I'll add two that weren't talked about. The first is because these two state functions are very important, very important and they define the course of further reforms, all of which were mentioned here. We will be much easier to address reforms and education and health care and, as someone here mentions, pension and disability insurance and all other functions of the state, if we solve economic problems, problems of production and employment problems and create a prerequisite and a material basis for solving this other, rather than vice versa. In this context, I would only replicate one of the MPs who mentioned the reform of pension and disability insurance and who knows which time I used the assembly pay phone to mention PUPS and Milan Krkobbić. It's unacceptable, unacceptable for us, and it's for every conviction. The second reason is, we expect a debate on reconstruction and government and personal solutions to be opened on Thursday or Friday, and then we will talk and insist on what we consider most important, related to today's debate on the law. For us, the most important and important – economic reform, employment and the solution to young people's problems. In this context, we particularly insist on social policy, the exercise of all the rights acquired by all the citizens of this country, and in this context, the greatest possible concern for the poorest citizens of this country, which today was not much of a word, from politics. That's why we think it would be very good if at a session that is about to be different, to prepare ourselves differently than we are today and then to talk about the real demands and the future of this beautiful state of ours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22222	The word has Vladimir Ilic. You have eight minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22223	I hope I'll be shorter than that. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, dear colleagues, today Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic said one thing that I've been thinking about almost all day. He said Serbia's most important resource at the moment is one big truth. So Serbia has almost everything, but there is no more time. What is the benefit of Serbian citizens today and today's debate? We'll all agree. None. Whose time did we spend today? Here's 12 hours of discussion. We've wasted our time, but that's why we're well paid. So, we didn't, at least for our own sake, sit here for nothing, we'll get salaries and journals for what we did. We have also spent time on Serbian citizens and, as the people say, not even today's misery, it's only one day. Speaking of time, they've spent a lot of years. For 20 years, there's a similar way of having these wild debates without effects and without results. Speaking of time, tomorrow will be exactly 13 months after the government was formed, 390 days, and the idea of reconstruction is 170 days old, it will also be that time tomorrow. This reconstruction is designed to be deep, fundamental and essential. According to the text of the law that is before us today, obviously it won't be that way. I have to admit, Your Honor, most of us here today have agreed on this, and the text of the law gives the impression that it's written backwards, in haste. If you pay attention to the reasoning of the law, it says that by respecting the principle of rationality, this law is passed, and the principle of rationality, as you represent it here, means that instead of 17 ministries there are 18 ministries. So, according to this principle, as presented here, it turns out to be less than larger, and it's smaller than smaller, so who understands. The law is written in haste, and we will have opportunities to discuss the details of the solutions offered. What's crucial is the separation of the Ministry of Finance and Business. Maybe someone thinks it's good, I'm sure it's bad and all that's going to be a personal solution for the future finance minister or economy, I think it would be far more practical if this were the same. Because, for the simple reason, in terms of the economic crisis, the finance minister and the economy minister must be top-notch synchronised and best when this is united in one person, for the simple reason that the measures that are brought into the Ministry of Finance in the largest extent of economic relations and if someone wants to make a good economic environment, not to burden the economy too much and to ensure stability in public finances, must have that top synchronisation. If you have two ministers in these circumstances, it is much harder to achieve one balance and one consensus about it. We've heard legitimate objections today when it comes to the Ministry of Ecology, which as such is not defined, and I'll agree that you could offer a better solution. But apparently, this law does not reflect that desire for reconstruction to be essential, profound, and fundamental. It's actually a personal reconstruction, and we really don't mind it. We have no reason, like the United Regions of Serbia, to be dissatisfied or angry because we are not in a coalition. Our partners decided to continue on their own and I think it's a politically correct decision. Maybe they didn't have to distract us so long with the story of a fundamental reconstruction, but anyway, I think they did us a favor in some way. At the very least, the time ahead will show what was the key idea of reconstruction and we will, at least in the next period, be relieved. One great burden of responsibility will come down from our backs. There will be some prejudices and stereotypes attached to the URS. We have no reason to be disappointed. I think we did a good job. We were correct coalition partners, I didn't hear any fundamental remarks about us today. I will not repeat the results that the URS and our ministers have achieved in the past year, just to mention that more than a third of all the laws that have been passed here are the laws that we have proposed. Finally, I want to be honest with my heart, first of all because of the citizens of Serbia, to wish for the success of the reconstructed government because its success is primarily in the interests of Serbia and its citizens. We will measure the effects and results of the new reconstructed government not according to what anyone says what they will do, but according to how they will work and according to the results. So, I want the prime minister to be named by Prime Minister Dacic's government, as is the case with previous governments, by Marjanovic, Djindjic, Kostunica, Cvetkovic. (President: Time.) I'll cut it short, since we got in at 12 o'clock. I really want the success of this government, primarily because of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22224	Thank you, too. I only have one small remark. I believe that's your lapus. MPs don't receive journals, just travel expenses. Since there are more speakers on the lists, I'd better say we've wasted the time available. I am now asking, before concluding a principled search, whether the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? The word is Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22225	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've been discussing the Bill of Amendments and the Supplements of the Ministry Act for 12 hours, and now that a man gathers at the end of the day, and there are more than 12 hours, and at least we've talked about the Law itself, we've talked about the quality of the solutions that this law makes and that will bring about the moment when it is adopted. Unfortunately, after a long time, the citizens had the opportunity to watch the National Assembly again, and they probably didn’t like what they were looking at. We've seen some rhetoric of mutually accusedness again, of making arbitrary accusations. It's certainly not something that's up to us. Let's sublime one more time, draw a line to see what we're actually talking about today when we talk about the law that we're talking about, I say, the least we can do. We have concluded that the proposed law by the Ministry of Justice is technically and in any other way a quality law. We have concluded that the proposal to divide the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, i.e. that we now have those two ministries is one proposal that has previously had support in the professional public, has also had support in the political public. It's legitimate to say that it may be a wrong move, but I think we all need to support that one such solution at least try, that one such solution, that we simply see how that solution will function in practice. The SNS parliamentary group fully believes that this is a good solution, that one is a truly huge ministry, one huge number of responsibilities is divided into two ministries, that two experts, that two groups of experts together try the job in a better way. I must say, it's extremely good that the diaspora is recognized in one more quality way when we talk about the responsibilities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I must also say that it is finally good that the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice in the area of property relations is precisely recognized. It has been a practice so far, but now we will have more precisely recognised that jurisdiction in the Ministry Act. When it all comes together and takes away, let's see what we've heard and the criticism. We heard a highly legitimate criticism that, for example, it should have been entered into the text of the Law on Ministry of Environment Protection. Generally, it's not a bad idea. We also heard a criticism that a special ministry of European integration should be introduced. The Serbian Progressive Party supports European integration and generally, and that is not a bad idea. We heard the idea of introducing a special ministry for the protection of human rights. I support it, and that's a pretty good idea. We heard the idea that a special religion ministry was to be introduced, so that's not a bad idea either. Why not, the degree of religious Serbia is really very high, which is what Europe is telling us, but it wouldn't be bad if we had a special ministry. Now I ask the opposition how many ministries do we have to have? According to these estimates, if we look closely at all the amendments submitted to this issue, Serbia should have a government with one 35 ministries. This is not in line with SNS policy, I must also say in accordance with other parties' policy that the costs of the state administration should be reduced. And that is why we should support the idea of the Ministry of Justice and the Government that proposed this law, which is to make the Government with 18 ministries, which is to be honest and comparable legally and in the region, when we look at one quite, quite optimal figure. It is good that, of course, there will continue to be a diaspora office, as there are completely separate questions of the office's jurisdiction in accordance with the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region and the foreign ministry. Of course, those who have been employed will still be employed, we respect the Constitution, we respect the principle of rights acquired. Of course, the archives will be downloaded in order to resolve the demands of citizens, applications, complaints, and everything else the competent authorities decide on. Thirty-one amendments have been filed. I sincerely hope that when the discussion of these amendments is held in two days, the discussion will be more cultural, that the discussion will really focus on what these amendments suggest, or what the law says, that we will not be dealing with tabloid writings, that we will not be dealing with the accusations whether someone did this or what they did, that we will not be dealing with the accusations that someone is guilty and that there is no conviction. That's what we saw in 2011, 2012, I think we should finally stop with that practice. There is no dispute that in this text the SNS law will, of course, support in the voting day, if any of the amendments can contribute to the quality of the text, I am sure that such amendments will be accepted, and in any case all amendments will be carefully read. Once again, all congratulations to the Ministry of Justice, Minister Selakovic, and his team on making such a law, which is well written by all criteria, European written, which has passed all the relevant committees of the National Assembly. I must remind you, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law has unanimously assessed this law as a law in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The judiciary committee with nine votes in favour and only three votes against also passed the law. So, all procedures and all European standards have been met to the end. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22226	The word has a National MP Janko Veselinović, you have six minutes at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22227	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will repeat a few sentences that I have spoken to the minister for a moment had an obligation to come out. So, distinguished Minister Selakovic, I do not dispute the quality of the law that you put in the procedure in the National Assembly. The Democratic Party is, again I will repeat, unlike your party when you were in the opposition as a constructive opposition, very often voted in favour of the laws that we considered to offer the benefit of Serbian citizens and that they are on the European path. This is not disputed, and very often there has been a constructive debate on committees, and very often you have accepted our amendments. What we can't forgive you in the Justice Department is the Amnesty Act. And that's where we broke the spear, remember in the debate, and we'll do it as long as you're in the minister's seat to object to you, both to you and to your party president and to the Prime Minister. It was a bad law at a bad time. The other thing we can't get past is the fact that the key system laws you've announced have arrived at the Assembly, and then the returnees have never again found themselves on the agenda of the National Assembly. What problems are there about these laws, we don't understand. The fact is, these laws were not found in front of the MPs. If they find themselves and are acceptable to the DS, we will be constructive again in this debate. However, we can promise you today, you and your party, that we will not be silent about the annulment or humiliation of independent judicial system institutions, other institutions that should be independent, such as the protecter of citizens, the Anti-Corruption Agency, that I do not list, which your party, in our opinion, has endangered, or the ruling coalition. On the other hand, we will not allow the chairman of either you or the President of the Assembly to allow more MPs of the ruling coalition in the absence of arguments to protect, or to defend, indefensible. This law is an empty set, it's legal and correct written, it's not controversial, and six months you've been talking about reconstruction, to get a law by which one ministry is divided into two and what you've explained to us about some new responsibilities. We didn't expect any government after a year, the rule of a man who instrumented the media, the police, all institutions independent of making his image, and you offered one law that doesn't offer solutions. I hope that the new ministers and believe me, that I share your desire to be of old and that you have found ministers who will implement the next prom as well as that you have found ministers who will reduce the level of aflatoxin, pay premiums to farmers, who will continue with the projects that DS has started, but DS no longer has the right to remain silent about your caucusive relationship with parliament in which any criticism is considered, the insult of a cult that cannot be mentioned, or criticized in a policy that leads to humiliation, the destruction of the opposition, we are not concerned about what you do with your coalition partners and how you negotiate, but I hope neither the other opposition parties will be silent when we talk about the law, the reconstruction, or the law of ministries, and you are talking about climbing on tops. You've been talking for an hour or two about who climbed which top and other way you're turning the subject. The theme here today is this government, the government's work so far, the way you want to transfer it, the way you're going to suggest Friday that people lead that government. We are interested in what Serbia will look like in 2014, whether the people will live, Serbian citizens better or we will go further in the sunup in all the areas that hurt you when I mentioned it. Dear Ministers, we ask you to respect the amendments we have submitted, i.e. we wanted to submit, and we are not sure that they ended up in the government, because they had little time to adequately apply the amendments, and Mr Djelic prepared the amendments, and in the office they did not seem to have received these amendments, so it is a matter of grave concern. I think it's a shame for this assembly, but either way, don't expect us not to worry about the citizens of Serbia, but don't expect us to listen to the silent insults you make at the expense of the DS and the opposition in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22228	Since there are no more authorised representatives, I ask the minister if he wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22229	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on many occasions we have had the opportunity to hear about the law which is now said to be an empty set which is one great nothing, and for 12 hours we are talking about something that is nothing, nothing, something that is inserious, ridiculous, politically superficial, etc. It's said that six months have waited for reconstruction, and now here's this law and again replacing the thesis and allegedly the law on reconstruction. The reconstruction could have happened without any changes and additions to this law and the one who spoke a few words earlier, he knows very well. Is it necessary to cloud the citizens a little bit about the fact and the story of it because, as is said, the story of the government's reconstruction began as a story of personal reconstruction? There's something that's a technical prerequisite for that to happen. Even from some of the parliamentary clubs, it was heard up to a few days ago that it was necessary to amend the Government Act. Probably, I suppose, out of ignorance and out of ignorance came that story, but completely unnecessary. What's important is that I repeat what I said earlier, that it's a technical prerequisite for the government to be reconstructed, that, on the basis of this amendment and the addition of the Ministry Act cannot be appreciated, it can be kind of, but we certainly didn't even talk about it here today. Most of those present cannot appreciate the quality of the government's reconstruction. Maybe this is just one congregation warm-up after some time of rest during the summer for something that's just coming up at the end of this week's work. Probably not, but what I really have an obligation to look back on is said. He says, we will not be silent about the humiliation of institutions that are a party which I am proud to point out, and I belong to, which our party has put at risk. I don't see what institutions we've put at risk. I really can't see. I don't see whether the fact of respect and implementation of the Constitution contributes to the threat of institutions. You said yourself not to dispute the quality of the law we put into practice. You even mentioned that the system law of justice, they still don't know their fate. As far as I'm aware, of the four laws, I'm well aware of four judicial laws, only one has been withdrawn from the procedure, and three are in the congregation procedure and there they are. I spoke publicly. I really have no reason to hide anything. Which is why the stagnation is still on that path, although I have personally announced that even earlier these laws will be in front of you and that we will discuss them and that I am confident that they will be adopted. Unfortunately, I said that throughout the negotiations in Brussels, he stalled and put those laws into practice. It's no secret. It's a painful fact. We've been working on it, and we're still working on these laws being found in a procedure without major consequences for our country, constitutional and legal order and the whole system. I say once again, it's a technical step that leads to a personal reconstruction of the government. Whether this government did well or not each of us can present some of our grades. Always finally, the assessment of the work of a government will be given by citizens and the assessment of the work of this government will one day be given. It is perfectly legitimate that the opposition is trying to show citizens that some government has not been doing well and thus, in constant participation in the work of the Assembly in some way, is leading a pre-election campaign on a long-term basis. I don't mind, but when something good is done, as you've just realized, that there's a law that we disagreed on, it's quite legitimate that you often mention it. It's the kind of law that nowhere in the world has ever experienced a consensus, nor has it ever been praised by everyone. The easiest thing for me to do is to go out after that and say yes, but at the time of your government, a law was passed during which so many and so many tens of thousands of terrorists were released, so they raised the masses to weapons on March 17th and led to a new exodus. What are we going to get? You tell me, I tell you what we did? But it is also very incorrect to say here several times today that there is absolutely no fight against organised crime and then what we have done, but it is also very incorrect to say here several times today that there is absolutely no fight against organised crime and then it is said that there is and is documented that there is. We've heard from the first Deputy Prime Minister that he's going to deliver a report here that will show that he's doing very well on this plan, but that's not worth anything either, that story continues. Far from being in our country, it's a great situation. I mentioned today that the Ministry Act and this one is a valid indicator of a lot of things, but that's the state we're in all over the country, it's got to start somewhere, it's got to come from somewhere. This government is not God’s day, but this government has achieved some results, and it takes time for some more to be realized. Sometimes it takes 50 years for what, you know, something that tens of generations can build, half a generation, destroy very easily. We've seen, you know, the economy of this country has been in continuance since one war was built for decades, and then it's almost completely devastated for the term of one or one or a half of the government. When you mentioned in 1999, Zante, I will remain uninvited until the end, none of the major experts explained to me that it was possible that more employees in Serbia were right during that time in 1999, while she was bombed, but after that. I don't know if people were taking salaries, but they were living on something, going to work somewhere, how is it possible that after that year 1999 we had exports that we are now trying to reach, was that also a fictitious export? How is it possible, then, that part of the industry that today is exposed to one of the unfair competitions of other countries, such as textile, leather, footwear industry, that it produced and exported much more? I was able to attend a political forum in Southeast Europe that took place in Tirana in November and there a man from our diplomatic mission told me – you know, here you can buy excellent shoes; I asked – how to buy excellent shoes here? He says -- after 2000, Italians stopped offering their jobs to the Serbian shoe industry, so they came to Albania. I asked – why? He says – simply because the state no longer took an interest in this branch of the economy and they left here. Now, thank God, we welcome that after a decade and something comes a strong Italian company in Vranje and tries to revive our largest factory, once the largest shoe factory "Kostana". It was about everything today, and at least it was about the content of the Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. I am convinced that these small but significant solutions through this law are paved the way for some of the future greater steps in the improvement of this law. In any case, by the end of this year, I expect a strategy of public administration reform for the next five years, a difficult, painful but very necessary reform towards building a functioning state, because it is a big issue. Before that we will have something that I proudly announce, something that many of us here present, but also those who are not present, and citizens, I am convinced, will surprise. We'll have the first study in decades of the functionality of our state administration done by the Department of Justice and the State Administration, and then we'll see how much the state costs and how effective it is. It will be one of the best criteria of how many divisions, duplications, overlapping powers and their dysfunctional performance. I urge you to support this law in the voting day. Unless you have been able to submit the amendments, of course there is always a possibility that the Committee may submit amendments on behalf of the Committee. Most MPs have representatives, and this is one of the ways that some of them unanimously supported the law today, including members from other parties. I understand the heat of a parliamentary debate. Sometimes I say something in it that leads to my apology. If I have offended someone, if I have done something in that heat of debate that could degrade the reputation and dignity of the National Assembly, it certainly was not my intention, because I belong to a party who builds, strengthens, promotes, which is state-of-the-art, not a state-of-the-art. I'm sure he'll continue on that path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-26-0.u22230	Thank you. On the basis of Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude a principled review of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. I would like to inform you that we will continue our work on Wednesday, August 28, 2013 at 12:00 p.m.
