ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10974	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the session of the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 91 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sessions were prevented from attending Branko Ruzic, Miroslav Petkovic and Neven Cvetićan. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I have also called on the sittings of Danilo Golubović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Milos Milovanovic, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Ruzica Tripic, Head of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and Ivan Zivov, Head of the Office of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. We continue to work and move on the search in detail on the 1st point of the agenda – PROPOSITION OF SUPPORTS IN POLANDS AND RURAL DESCRIPTION You have received amendments submitted by the MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milošević, Slobodan Veličković, Ružica Igić, Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarević, Milan Lapčević, Jelena Travar Miljević, Nenad Kitanović, Jožef Šandor, Ana Novković, Milica Vojić Marković, Nebojsa Popović, Gorica Gajić, Donka Banović, Ivan Karić, Dušan Petrović, Dragan Marković, Petar Petrović, Slavica Savić, Ivana Gogić, Vladimir Marinković, Marijan Ristič, Nebojša Zelenović, Arpad Fremond, Balinja Banović, Valić, Balinta Paštar Paštović, Žalić, Žalić, Nežar Poš, Žarić, Nežno Poš, Žarić, Nežović, Žarić, Žarić, Mirkodić, Žarić, Žarić, Miroić, Miroić, Miroić, Mir, Miroić, Miroić, Miroić, Miroić, Mirić, Slav, Slav, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Vladimir, Vladimir, Ivan, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Ivan, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Ivan, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Vladimir, Ivan, Ivan, Vladimir, Vladimir, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan, Vladimir, Ivan, Ivan, Ivan. You have received a report from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Before the change to the search in particular, I remind you that the amendments were drawn by the MPs: together with Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović and Kenan Hajdarevic, who were proposed to add a new title above members and members of 14b; together with Snezana Bogosavljević Boskovic and Zoran Kasalovic, who were proposed to add a new title to the 27th article and Article 27a. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Velickovic together submitted an amendment to the law proposal. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Igic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Ružica Igić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10975	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the amendment we have submitted refers in fact to terms – agricultural land, farmland and the general definition to which it is defined. In fact, we wanted to delete in Article 2 of point 5, because agricultural land and farmland are in fact not different. According to point 2, agricultural land is by definition what is suitable for agriculture production, thus processing. There are fields, drills and various other types of land. The same is true in farmland. With that in mind, we looked at the Agricultural Land Act, and we found that these definitions really stand. But if the Agricultural Land Act is made so that we think it's wrong, we don't think it should be listed, but we simply need to shorten that sentence and not repeat the farm land again. I also talked about this on the Committee on Agriculture, and then I was responsible that it was essentially prescribed by the Agricultural Land Act. If one law is not done properly and no definitions are given properly, please continue to pay attention to clear definitions in this case.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10976	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ljubica Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10977	On the subject of the amendments, which we have submitted to the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, we have submitted an amendment for the reasons that we, as Serbs, are ready to accept some foreign words and use aliens. If this law applies to agriculture and the village, that's the Latin word, which means the village, we should have written it the way that suits the peasants the most. If we know that there were many illiterate people in the peasants, it means that we should have approached, even if in the text part of the word of that law our words and given the word – about the restoration of the village. You don't need to use aliens. We used it in the name of the law, and through the whole law, those words come out. They are contained in the text and in all accompanying documents that regulate these regulations. We know that in the villages, mostly the old-age households stayed. We would have to pay a little more attention to the village, to attract young people to stay in the country and to be able to live a little better, that is, to ease poverty, and when we know that we are a very poor country. Also, we should pay a little more attention not to being so poor, to attract young people through the restoration, that is, the release of various rural households so that they can buy agromash, to process their country, because we know that these funds are very old, produced and are no longer in use. More attention should be paid to smaller rural households that need to produce healthy food. Particular attention should be paid to and planned what to produce and where farmers will continue to place their products, to be healthier and richer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10978	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP Ruzica Igic submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10979	Mr. Minister, MPs, this amendment to the LDP wanted the definition of where incentives are provided, other than the budget of the Republic of Serbia and other sources, to include the AP Vojvodina budget and the budget of local self-government. The government's explanation, which is why this amendment is not accepted, is the least ridiculous. It explains that the amendment is not accepted, as the right to incentives is secured from the funds provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Mr. Prince, have the ministers read this bill? Article 3 defines what incentives are, and Article 13 defines that the AP Vojvodina and local self-government units have the right to give direct incentives, except for those which you have exempt from Article 2. Then how can you say in your explanation that incentives are given only by the Republic of Serbia? If AP Vojvodina, under this law, and local self-government units have the right to give incentives, then AP Vojvodina and local self-government units cannot be classified into other sources. They're not donations. In every law that has been passed so far in this country and which is valid, the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the budgets of autonomous provinces and the budget of local self-government always stands. Why isn't that in this law? What's the reason for this government in the first place? What is the argument that incentives are given only from the Republic of Serbia's budget? The law says otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10980	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10981	Dear Presidency, we have submitted to Article 2 an amendment amending point 9 and it is said that agricultural production is the process of producing plant and livestock products, which is carried out on land or construction plots. Where primary, or plant production is indicated, and secondary, or livestock production, then no longer has to be defined and listed separately, unless there is no intention of listing each type of production. For example, plant production also covers medicinal plants, greenhouse and plastic production, while fishing is taught in the direction of livestock production and why it is separated from secondary production. We do not believe that a specific definition and separation of agricultural production should be defined here, if it is said that the production process is carried out on land and construction plots. That definition is sufficient and no longer needs to be detailed. What is lacking in this law is the lack or insufficiently developed substance of incentives related to agricultural, or plant production, which refers to fruit production. We have no number, even in the part of the plant production, incentives for warfare, but only defined incentives for the production of milk, meat, livestock, for plant-bound production, as regards wheat and other ratic cultures, but in terms of fruit production, we do not have developed incentives. It's one of the things we think is missing in this law. We believe that this amendment, as regards Article 2, point 9, should be adopted as proposed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10982	Anyone else want a word? The word has the People's MP Ruzica Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10983	It also states on the very end -- as on other land or construction site located on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. According to us, this part of the amendment has been deleted, does this mean that it will be co-financed and co-financed in another republic, or in another state? We think this part is completely unnecessary in this attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10984	National MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic, Nenad Kitanovic, Jožef Shandor and Ana Novkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10985	I'm glad this amendment to the URS was accepted. In this way, conditions are created to encourage livestock, which will mean a lot to those who are engaged in this activity. I am particularly pleased that this amendment has been accepted, because people from the field, who are engaged in this work, have initiated us to propose this amendment. Agriculture is in a very difficult situation in Serbia today. Animal meat production is dropping, and imports are growing, so often meat of suspicious quality arrives in our country, while on the other hand, we have our products that are much more quality. In the surrounding countries, livestock production is encouraged by the state, which is not the case with us, so our producers have losses and cannot be competitive. We hope that this amendment will partially solve the problems of those who deal with livestock, that they will get support to improve their work, because this branch can be restored very quickly, as well as to prevent us from importing meat more in our country than we produce. This is another way to help save the village, make it possible for people to stay there. The village and agriculture must be invested because it is most expensive when people from the village leave and when the territories are empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10986	Anyone else want a word? National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10987	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in Article 2 relating to the meaning of the term, in item 10, you define who the farmer is and you say that the farmer is the bearer or member of the family agricultural land that exclusively deals with agricultural production. Here is the accent on this one – exclusively. It seems to us that it's not a good enough definition and that you're completely turning to something that's secondary and peripheral, as far as we're concerned. We think that farmers are much more defined by the fact that they place their own agricultural product on the market than whether they are exclusively engaged in agricultural production. It seems to me that the state definitely needs to turn to such a model of view, to recognize the market producer as a farmer or a businessman, not to do some peripheral things in this part. That's why we've intervened with the amendment and our definition is very different. Listen to what it says - the farmer is a farmer or a member of a family agricultural land that is market-based in agricultural production. I think this makes a lot of difference in understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10988	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10989	Mr. Minister, the Honorable Chairman, this is a very important matter we're talking about at point 10. It's the first time I've ever come across this definition of farmers. She is, in my opinion, very good, but I would ask you, as Minister of Agriculture, to apply this definition in all the regulations that regulate the lives of farmers in any way. We now, at this point, have three or four different definitions of farmers, so we talk about a farmer as a man who deals with agriculture as a single or basic profession, in another definition to a farmer who makes some income from agriculture or has a country over 50 acres. So we have a few different definitions that sort out the status of farmers in a different way. Why does this matter? Why is the definition of farmers important? Because we have 150 thousand small farmers in Serbia. It's those who have less than three acres, who have less than two or three cows and who are very hard to survive in this time. With this definition and the alignment of this definition with other regulations, the Law on PIO, the Health Insurance Act, we will get the actual status of farmers in Serbia, and then we will come up with the following thing, which is – what to do with small farmers and how to help them survive. For starters, I think this is a good definition, but I'd like to ask you to implement this definition in other regulations as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10990	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 2nd Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popovic and Gorica Gajic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment with the correction. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment, National MP Donka Banovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment with the correction. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10991	Thank you. This is the amendment to point 13. In point 13, you say that - Agricultural land are fields, gardens, orchards, vineyards, meadows, pastures, ponds, reeds and swamps, as well as other land (wheats, abandoned riverbeds, land grew up with low bushy growth and others) which, according to its natural and economic conditions, can be used rationally for agricultural production. We think this definition is long and unnecessary into some listings. We suggest that you replace it with the definition of agricultural land that can be used for agricultural production under its natural and economic conditions. You are absolutely entering some unnecessary listings here, and in two places you say – and others. So here you open up the possibility to classify some areas that absolutely cannot be agricultural land. Thanks to these open doors in two places – and secondly, they can be determined, or classified as agricultural land. So that definition is no good to you at all, plus here you use the word "real" to be used for agricultural production. If someone uses agricultural land rationally, it is good, however, just because someone is going to use agricultural land irrationally or will be unrealized does not mean that it ceases to be agricultural land. We don't think this definition of yours is right and you should accept this one of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10992	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ivan Karic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10993	I thank the President-in-Office, Mr. Secretary, if there had been no previous amendments, I probably wouldn't have answered, believing that you'd given me an explanation of what rural development is. Now it's clear to me that you gave me a trivial explanation just to refuse the amendment. The essence of this amendment was not in the definition of rural development, but in the fact that both local self-government and AP Vojvodina should participate in the design of plans and strategies, and that what you explained to me in the principle debate, which was not at all about your law, but about the law on air protection, confirms the government's intention to centralise the state, to abolish local self-government, to bring all the money out of all fees into one register and then the only minister has all the finances and he decides whether any area has needs for rural development, whether any area has a need to protect the environment or perhaps to build a ski resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10994	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. Does anyone want a word? National MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10995	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, in the last year and a half, there has been a very important change in the number of landowners who are users of the different kinds of assistance the state gives, and direct incentives and regressions, less – more of all the institutions that will be regulated by this law, if it gets most in this House. Somewhere in 2011, there were about 80,000 owners, now it's over 240 thousand and what on the Agriculture Committee, discussing this bill and the budget a while ago, we were able to find out, see and conclude in the final line, that the number of landowners that will receive different kinds of contributions from the state will certainly not be less than 200 thousand and that the intensity and this law is increasing, and that's a very good thing. Speaking from experience, I think it is quite clear that the best possible way to use money, that the money the state gives in the agrarian budget is transformed into increased production, is not possible unless each of these landowners has the best possible assistance and the best possible insight into what possible forms of co-operation with the state on the one hand and on the other hand, that kind of technical assistance that these landowners need to improve production, of which kind of seed to use, what is possible, which is available on the market, which other types of agritechnical measures, anything that, if used in agricultural production, can lead to an increase in that agricultural production. We are somewhere today at about ten billion euros in social part of a social product representing food production and agriculture and the food industry. Our country's potential is really huge... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Certainly multiple over and over 10 billion euros, and I think that every type of investment in agricultural production is investments that can't be wrong. That's why I put the amendment already in this place and then at the very end of the law, when it comes to surveillance, this idea was worked out, which is to return the graduate agronomists through the advisory service, they were around 1,700. We also had one controversy about it and in general in the public, it is no dispute that we have different views, but once again I really want to express my firm belief that the engagement of people who have graduated from the agricultural college is more than useful to advise the agricultural holdings in Serbia. During last year, they advised over 350,000 owners in more than 3,000 settlements. What is particularly important is that even now, the more passive the landscapes, the harder the conditions of agricultural production, the more precious the whole engagement was. That's why I've proposed an amendment for assistant advisors to be introduced into the law. I made a suggestion on how to define it. The minister and the government were left at their disposal to decide in what particular way they could be engaged. I agree that this depends on the available money in the budget, but I really think that investing in the work of these experts is valuable and that it returns multiple times through an increase in production, through an increase in GDP and through an increase in earnings for each individual land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10996	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10997	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would support this, but for two reasons I can't. So, the Ministry of Agriculture has been in the hands of a party now in opposition for five years. It was only five years before the elections that advisers were introduced. Thousands of them, in my opinion, have acquired the right just to increase the number of voters. The previous agriculture minister even admitted it on the main board of his party and said it was not, that the number of votes his election list received would be far less than usual. So there are two reasons. One is that they haven't introduced it in the first year, the second year, the third year, the fourth year, but several months before the elections, and the second reason is that it costs. As a farmer, I almost didn't see those counselors, nor did I have any practical benefits. I think we're from those funds that have been spent, and there's the Minister of Agriculture, that we could have made a few thousand from those funds, and maybe a few tens of thousands of cows, and we could have increased our livestock fund. Instead, we funded advisers who were almost useless and did nothing to increase agricultural production in Serbia, not to say that the drought took its toll. I don't think even the counselors, even if it was a normal year, would have contributed to some increase in agricultural production. Among those advisers were members of various parties, mostly they favoured the ruling set. I see this as an attempt for advisers who in the meantime, by decision of the Ministry of Agriculture, have lost that status in a certain way again through this amendment and continue to maintain their voting body in the future. If I'm wrong, so if it had any other effects, other than voting, then there's the Minister of Agriculture, so let him correct me. Thank you. (Dusan Petrovic, from town: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10998	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Petrovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u10999	It is incorrect that at any time, anywhere, including the DS Chief Board, I said anything similar to what Mr. Risticevic said. It's a complete lie. Point one. Point two, the advisory service was introduced to life a year or a year or a half ago, with the largest possible support of the two agricultural universities that exist in Serbia – and the Faculty of Zemun and the University of Novi Sad. All the teachers who participated in this, both deans, gave the most possible support, so not only support, but with the active involvement of the professional public is the advisory service, from the form that existed and which is more or less existing and now, translated into a multiple one-off system with other duties. The Ministry of Agriculture only provided technical assistance. Everything that has been done has been done by the professors of both universities and each other, both from New Sad and Belgrade, by conducting training, by drawing up tests, by establishing the level of knowledge of candidates, by keeping an eye on what appears and what is done, by making suggestions for the organization. So, with the greatest possible support of the highest authority dealing with agronomics in this country and even agricultural science, this entire system has been implemented. As far as political belonging is concerned, no single moment of membership or membership in any political party was important. The presidents of opposition political parties per bar were advisers. Some of them were the best participants in this whole thing. You can ask each individual if anyone has ever asked him whether he is in a political party or not and whether it has in any way affected what they did. Each of the farmers is in the way he wanted, used or refused to cooperate with assistant advisors. I'm going to say once again, 350,000 landlords were getting help. Today, when we go around Serbia, where conditions for agricultural production are more difficult, so many people are asking more questions about advisers' assistants because they have been very helpful. This is another opportunity to say something I believe, and it seems to me that even a consensus is being established about it. Agricultural production in Vojvodina and agricultural production in central Serbia are very, very different. It's a different structure of agricultural land, it's a different structure of production, it's different habits, it's a different tradition, it's a different approach. It is absolutely impossible in the same way to regulate agricultural policy, in my opinion, in Vojvodina and central Serbia, and therefore it is necessary that we actually have an agrarian policy for every part of our country that is suited to the needs that people have. I think this is one big question, actually, one element that can in an important way affect the entire agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11000	Mr. Petrovic, I'm taking this time away from your parliamentary group. This wasn't a replica, since you spoke for three minutes and 34 seconds. Anyone else want a word? National MP Marijan Rističević. I won't give you the right to a replica, this is the same time from the MP's group, you know. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11001	I'm afraid my esteemed colleague didn't deny me. I spoke as a farmer, and I claim that I had no use for those advisors, I haven't seen them at all. So, I'm afraid they were just on food or at the Ministry's salary. I'm not a member of the board of directors, so I can't swear that you said that, but the media transmitted it -- that when you collected DS results, there were other colleagues who read the papers here, saying that the result would be even worse if you didn't, as you say, improve agricultural policy, that there were no consultants, that you didn't expand the list, which is true. For four years, some agricultural holdings had no right to subsidies. You've expanded that list. I'm grateful for that, no matter what it was just in the election year. If it's all right with you, the farmers didn't have the right to subsidize, except for you, for the last year. If we agree on that, and I believe we agree, your progress in recognising the right to subsidies is certainly commendable. I give you credit for that, but we have to realize that it was only before the election campaign and that agricultural policy, for example, has been changed three times in a month. It's gonna be like this, and it's gonna be this big, and it's gonna be a kilo, and then it's gonna be a hectare, and it's gonna be a hectare for protests, and so on and on. These are inconclusive facts, such as any commendation that you abolished some discrimination that age would be a punishment and that peasants were not entitled to subsidies from 2007 to 2012. Your arrivals have earned it right, but only in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11002	Thank you. Dusan Petrovic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11003	Back to the first one. Even in the paper, it didn't say that. It was written about another thing, which is also untrue, that loans were an instrument, not advisers, to get votes. That's also not true, there's the minister. I think he examined in detail how the loans were made available to agricultural producers. It seems to me that there's been a major breakthrough here, and as for the technique and number of those who have managed to get these loans and those who have failed, too, who have applied. Let's not get any further on this thing. It is true that agricultural policy has been changed. It's been changed and eventually it's reached this point it's now at. In a rough way it actually enters into law, the number of landowners that receive money, because it is the most significant part of agrarian policy, there is the most money, through direct incentives is more or less translated into law into the state of things that remains at the end of the previous government. I think it just showed that it's not a matter of politics, it's a matter of life. It had to change agricultural policy because I think it was unsustainable for 80,000 owners to be beneficiaries of subsidies, and that policy was changed in the year before the election, not just in the election year. We had very dramatic things. Twice there were serious protests by farmers. This policy has been changed through one, a very busy process, and that change has lasted more than a year. What I think will eventually prove to be necessary in life is that if the state invests money, and what we do through this law is investing money in agricultural production, it must on the other hand have a clear evidence that this investment of money leads to an increase in agricultural production. It's like having a source of oil, so it's just a question of whether we're going to get that oil out or if we're going to look at the well. (President: Time. Back off from the MPs' club. (President: He can't now, since I gave you the right to a replica. I'm sorry, then nothing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11004	Thank you. Anyone else want a word about the amendment? (No) National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11005	Article 3 of the proposed law defines the types of incentives in agriculture, as well as the possibility of the Minister of Agriculture Affairs to establish an area with difficult working conditions in agriculture, for a period of three years. Mr. Minister, I assume the areas with difficult working conditions in agriculture are in the territory of southern and eastern Serbia. If you had conducted a public debate on this law on incentives in agriculture and rural development in these territories, as you have not, you would have had a certain opportunity to hear from farmers and from people who want to deal with rural development that it is indeed a short period of three years and that nothing important can change in agriculture or rural development for that period. For this reason, the LDP proposed that the period for which the minister responsible for agricultural affairs would prescribe areas with difficult conditions in agriculture would be five years. This would speed up and create the possibility of having a predictable agricultural policy right in areas where labour conditions are difficult in agriculture. It is truly unacceptable for us that the Government has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11006	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Gorica Gajic and Ružica Igic submitted together to Article 3 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11007	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, it's true, you're a member of 3. The draft law provides for types of incentives and you have also set out this article that the scope of these incentives will differ depending on whether incentives refer to underdeveloped areas, or areas where conditions for agricultural production are difficult. In this way, you gave yourself the authority to determine within three years which are underdeveloped areas for agricultural production. Given that it is clear by this law who will receive incentives when it comes to developed areas, these areas will only be set for a period of three years, but you have not set a deadline in which you will clearly tell them that in a month, we have so proposed by the amendment, you will bring this sublegal act within a month, so that these areas, above all in central Serbia, southern Serbia, southeastern Serbia, and also in western Serbia, and these are mostly according to some criteria on which you will determine that they are underdeveloped. It will be in some way at this moment for them unknown -- which the means for them will be determined. For those reasons, we put that amendment on. We believe it wasn't legally impossible for the law to stand and a deadline for you to bring this sublegal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11008	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11009	Mr. Minister, in this article and in dozens of other members of the law, certain matter has been defined and it is finally laid down that the minister in charge of agricultural affairs prescribes closer conditions for the acquisition of a right. It has bothered many, and we think it is a little excessive that every other member writes that the minister is closer to determining the conditions and that it has not entered the legal matter, but has been left to you to arrange it later. On the side of that story, it was much more important and more important for us to know the deadline within which the minister would have to pass a certain sublegal act. We think that, like what Mrs. Gajic was saying, it is really very important and that we cannot leave the minister at will, anyone who needs to pass a certain sublaw, that there is no deadline in which he does so, but that time is left. It happened earlier in practice, unfortunately, that it would take several months and a year not to pass a certain sublegal act, so when those who need to exercise some rights under a certain law are looking for those rights, then it is said – we do not, the sublaw was not passed. I don't think any law should leave so much space for a broad interpretation, but that matter must be narrowed down and in every member where it's left that the minister is closer to determining there must be a deadline. If it's 30 days short, I think for this kind of story about underdeveloped areas that need to realize certain rights is appropriate within 30 days. It may take more time in other members, but certainly no more than three months for the competent ministry or the minister himself to prescribe a certain sublegal act so that anyone who is required by a specific member can exercise that right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11010	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11011	Since there's an explanation here for the rejection of the amendment, it may not be quite in line with what you've been saying. So, in the list of sublegal acts that follow this law, it's said we'll bring it in within six months. We'll try, of course, to do it before, but when we spoke here, when we explained at the end of the law, when we spoke in principle, I said there were still a lot of rules to be done, the criteria to be made. I doubt they'll be able to do it that fast, 'cause we need to make over 20 rules. I doubt it could be such a short deadline, and that's why we left up to six months, and of course we'll try to make it sooner.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11012	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11013	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, we have actually proposed that this member be amended in this regard, which will define the family-agricultural ownership as regards the exercise of the right to subsidies. We felt that this Article 6 cannot separate the social and economic categories, i.e. social and economic measures as proposed by the law, because this member of the law foresees the existence of two types of agricultural land, which is commercially and not commercially. So, this category of non-communicative family ownership simply does not exist in the law elsewhere, nor in this Article 2 that defines the meaning of the expression of such a thing does not exist. It is evident that simply the legislator did not have enough hearing, sense and ambition to distinguish between social and economic. He's going through the whole law that there are certain intensities that he wants to speed up that commercial part, but apparently there's not enough hearing for that social part, for that large percentage of farmers, or family owners that function somewhere at the level of an existential minimum. It is in fact the highest percentage of agricultural producers and agricultural family owners operating in Serbia and should not be lost in sight. There is definitely one production error in this law when these two categories are clearly not defined. I understand you want to speed up agricultural production, but you can't lose sight of the other part that also makes up an integral part of one agricultural production. When you approach problems in this demagogue way, which means that you enter it as a category, and that you do not define it, and that in no way do you foresee the measures that you will help those non-commercial family heads leave it to the ministry and the minister, it just means that you leave it for some better days, for some other occasion, but this incentive law simply doesn't consider it to be its content. So, in addition to somehow losing sight of these social measures, the incentive should also regulate the question of the one who wants to produce, make progress, contribute, and also regulate those who, without any incentive, have problems in functioning and in achieving those basic living conditions. If they have this problem, sooner or later they will arrive at another item of this budget as a social problem. Come on, decide how you think to help that high percentage of non-performing agricultural producers, they can't be able to because of years of age, whether because of the small area of land that they process or for some completely third or fifth reason, they're not able to be commercial agricultural producers, or commercial family land. Otherwise, it is also characteristic of this law that it leaves rural development measures in the power of the minister, or ministry. It kind of coincides with this national plan and rural development programme and it's simply incomprehensible how you think and this rural development to bring to some level that will produce results if only the minister is empowered in the good part, as far as this incentive law is concerned, to decide on this rural development. So the two things that represent the key problem of this incentive law are clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11014	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11015	From the time of the authorized representative. So, I think this separation to commercial and non-commercial agricultural holdings, I guess the intensity was to speed up the market-oriented agricultural holdings that would give the quantity, increase production and that the legislator wanted to focus on these agricultural holdings so that agricultural production would be as large and as large as possible and that it simply drove those who wanted to deal with agriculture to actually be commercially turned, marketed to produce as much as possible, so that as much State resources could withdraw. However, when agricultural land is registered, you do not have a mechanism to condition someone to meet certain conditions in order to be a commercial or non-commercial agricultural land. You know, it's free will when you register there to say whether you're commercial or non-commercial. If it's free will, then it's completely missed matter, then everyone will say I'm a commercial agricultural land. In essence, you don't have any agricultural land no matter how small or large in Serbia which is not market-oriented, even those nursing households that have half a hectare of land and produce some vegetable cultures, some grandmothers there take out a basket of eggs, so they sell it and it's a market. They bring out a wreath of peppers and then they sell it and it's some kind of market production. So, if you want to encourage those who will give a much larger amount of agricultural products there are other mechanisms, through other members of the law that will be focused on this type of producer. But this way you don't have to kill those who do agricultural production to survive. We heard, it's simply some public data that about 250,000 registered agricultural holdings in Serbia. It's certain there's at least so many more unregistered ones. The reasons for this are different, some out of ignorance, some out of fear, and some because they are too small and feel that it will not benefit them if they register. I think that given agriculture is a key branch of Serbia's economy, Serbia has no other more developed branch of its economy than agriculture. If agriculture is the backbone of Serbia's development, I think we all agree on that, although in the past hundreds of years, to say, it has fed and raised this country, especially in the last ten years it has been a pillar of the country's development, the only surplus that this country records in exchange with abroad is a surplus in agriculture, then we believe that anyone who deals with agriculture has the right to be helped by the state. If you don't have five cows and you have five acres, then we're gonna help you, and if you don't have that much, then we're not gonna help you. Or if you registered as commercial, then you'll get something, and if for a million reasons you didn't register as commercial, you didn't know, and there's a lot of them in Serbia who just out of ignorance say, hey, I'm non-commercial, I don't produce some large quantities and I didn't sign up to be commercial, then I don't have the right to encourage. Or to be precise, there is even a member here who is said to be closer to prescribing the types of incentives generated by non-commercial land. You know, if you say -- they're going to prescribe a kind of incentive, then you're probably thinking about a narrow kind of incentive, rather than being given to commercial owners. I think that any agricultural land, that anyone who deals with agriculture in Serbia, should achieve a certain level of state-based incentive rights, and that those who focus on higher production, on more market-oriented production should have an additional right. This can be regulated through both throat incentives and incentives for the amount of certain production, but that those agricultural holdings that are either nursing or are socially endangered or weak, are not developed, do not lose that right, the minimum right that the state gives to everyone because it is also a measure of social policy. You have hundreds, probably tens of thousands of small landowners, who unfortunately make up two old people from 60, 70 years old who haven't earned their pension, do some small agricultural production, don't have a pension, only they produce something and sell, that's the means they survive with. Let the state help them here, and that's the measure of social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11016	Thank you. The word has Minister Knezevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11017	Yeah, but it's not the subject of this law. So it's the subject of some other law and some other ministry. This is exactly what we are giving the opportunity for non-commercial households, they will be treated by some other law, so the Ministry of Social Policy and they will help them with some things. So, you define yourself, as you yourself said, define yourself there whether you are a commercial household, if you are a commercial household and you meet the conditions, you have the right to subsidies, and that's clear.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11018	Thank you. Mr. Lapcevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11019	I don't think we understood each other very well. So, just what you mentioned -- you meet the conditions. So when you give the limit that someone has to turn in, for example. Three thousand gallons of milk to get an incentive of seven dinars, and one who doesn't give up three thousand gallons of milk, but gives up two thousand gallons of milk, has no incentive. I'm sorry, when I buy milk at the store, it doesn't say if someone gave it up with five thousand gallons of milk or two thousand gallons. A liter of milk is a liter of milk. A litre of milk deserves to be subsidized with seven dinars regardless of whether it comes from a commercial, non-communicative household or any other type of product. So, the state has to set a subsidy, a basic subsidy for each type of product, even a liter of milk, and for over three thousand liters of additional subsidies if we want to isolate these people as market-oriented and encourage them to produce more. But those who can't have that basic incentive from the state because then we put them in an unequal position for people who do agricultural production, which I don't think should be the purpose of the law. The law should put in the same position all those involved in a particular type of business and those engaged in a commercially better way that promotes production should be further promoted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11020	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11021	Thank you. On the subject of the amendment, I would also like to say that the argument tabled by Mr Lapcevic is good, however, the fact is, and it should not be disturbed from the mind, that in 2008, since the subsidy started, there were 100 euros per hectare of a processing surface, that the IMF resented our government, which is effectively guided by social policy and which is quite okay and quite understandable, but I think that the package with this law should have been followed by social policy measures. For what? Just to satisfy both the commercial and non-commercial households and to make the argument Mr Lapcevic made in the work, because of the simple statistics. We will now formally vote this, however, essentially 85% of small agricultural producers and they are in the most difficult position. They are also with this bill of law and as regards the milk premium and everything else in the subordinate position. We with these measures only selectively, without a measure of social policy, which will literally give the same to those non-competitional households, who were supposed to get incentives, we will only then begin to solve the problem. This way we may pass the law, but we won't solve the problem. Nearly 85% of our rural households will not be in the same position after the adoption of this law, they will be in an even worse position, without the necessary social policy measures.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11022	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Markovic and Petar Petrovic submitted to the 7th amendment together. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Petrovic submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slavica Savic, Branko Gogic and Vladimir Marinkovic together submitted the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic and Ruzica Igic together submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Karic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11023	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have proposed only to clarify certain things when applied for incentives, or subsidies, so it would be good for those who apply for a certain request, to make a specific application, to give the correct information, or to commit to those exact data, in particular, to the consequences provided for in paragraph 2 of this law if incorrect information is given. Let's also specify this point one in terms of accurate data. First, let's establish an obligation for accurate data, and then after that, there are sanctions if these data are incorrect. So it's just a single amendment that would like to explain one member of this bill, so there won't be wandering around about all that. You cannot prescribe certain sanctions unless you have previously established obligations whose violation actually leads to those sanctions. A lot of what is unclear about this law, and that is why it would be good to talk a little more seriously about all these proposals that have been made through the amendments to the opposition, and not to go over them easily and to give some reasons for refusing amendments that simply do not have some national basis, i.e. a basis. It is characteristic of this law that, in fact, it has taken over one good part of the agricultural and rural development law, so that about one third of this law is devised, because by way of effect this law will cease to apply those provisions which are in conflict with the existing law. So the question is why are we actually passing a whole new law that enters a good part of the jurisdiction of the already existing law, instead of slightly improving it, or giving it quality when it comes to incentives. It's clear that these incentives are very important and it's clear how many subsidies for agriculture are important, but we're going there for some marketing or for some story -- here, we've now made a whole new law. No, we are here, and here I am talking about the ruling coalition, as well as the opposition in parliament, that we are passing quality laws that will make sense. It often happens that some of the provisions of the new law are in line with the provisions of other laws, so that we do not come into this situation, that such serious matter as subsidies and incentives in agriculture, let us make it impossible to write one law that in some way places fences and borders on the functioning, or the implementation of another law that is very similar to that of matter when it comes to the Law of Encouragement in rural development.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11024	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11025	In Article 10(7), you said – the user of the incentive is obliged to keep documentation relating to the exercise of the right to incentives for at least five years from the date of its collection. If we now agree here that this could be a good law if some of the amendments we have proposed were adopted, I don't see why don't you take a step forward? Why don't we cut red tape, if that's possible, anywhere? I have not seen any organs in the current legal procedure that anyone has in any way tried to throw out bureaucracy and try to reduce the harassment of our citizens, in this case to reduce the abuse of farmers. Why would a farmer who, I say right now, struggle to obtain all the necessary documentation and perhaps deliver it to the competent authority, have to keep it for another five years? I guess that's what's in that organ, huh? I guess the management as a competent authority keeps all that information in accordance with the special law? Why would a user of incentives, in this case a farmer, have to keep it the same way? Why are we torturing them? Let's take one step forward, erase it, stop harassing people. They're either seriously struggling or they're going to bother applying for these incentives, and then some organ will adopt them or not, take all those papers he's got, and then they'll ask them to double it and keep it at home for the next five years, and then they'll say, "If you lose," and maybe that clerk throws it somewhere, there's that with our user, and we'll look for it. I asked this question on the Agriculture Committee. Mr. Golubovic answered me. Okay, these users of incentives have to be more or less serious, we've got new procedures now, they're kind of enterprises. Then my question would be – will they now, as some new agricultural enterprises, these farmers, perhaps get some incentive for employment, for example, will they perhaps get 10,000 euros if they open a new job? It doesn't have to be 10,000. Make it five. Will they get something as a company? If we make them act like businesses, then what do we give them in return?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11026	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11027	I have a custom, and a lot of people I talk to at home when you're paying that regular info, so you keep some bills a year, a year and a half so there's no mistake in the administration, so someone can sue you. This is part of the investment, where investments will be the order of 50 or 100,000 euros. Such documentation is not too risky to keep. Therefore, this member is such and therefore I think that this documentation should continue to be kept even though I fully agree with you that as little administration as possible and that we will try through all other acts to make these administrations as small and as low as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11028	The word is Mr. Zelenovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11029	Let me say I agree with your argument, but let's change that. We should write that the user of the incentive must keep the solution and keep only the solution. That solution says everything. It's one document, why keep everything safe.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11030	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11031	Thank you, Vice-President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the 11th proposed law speak of the establishment of a register of incentives on agriculture and rural development. The Liberal Democratic Party considers it extremely important that this kind of register is formed. This article provides that the data from the register are public and are used to implement measures to encourage agriculture and rural development, etc. The Liberal Democratic Party has proposed adding a new stance, which reads – the data from the incentive register is available on the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management site. Why is this amendment important? Because this amendment absolutely achieves what is foreseen by the proposal for this law, which is the public. If someone says the records are public, we need to make that public relatively easy. I'm afraid if it stays this way, as defined by the bill, that this availability of that information from the register will be a little bit difficult. What is also worrying is the explanation that we have received from the Government on this amendment. It is explained that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the said article has been regulated that the data from the register are public, which we have already defined both for what purposes and for which needs can be used. If we read this member of the law, we see that data from the register can be used to implement measures to encourage agriculture and rural development, as well as for the purpose of keeping statistics and analysts in the ministry. We come up with a situation that if someone wants to know if and who got some incentive and what amount, we, interpreting the ministry's response and what it says in the proposed article, come to a simple conclusion that we won't be able to keep in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11032	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11033	Thank you. I use the time of the DS parliamentary group to support the amendment submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic, for two reasons. The first is that the amendment is good because it explains what it is that the promoter, in the basic text of the law, had in mind, when it says that the register of incentives is public. So, as it is public, whether it is public at the request of the availability of information, whether it is public in the official newspaper, a list of messengers, at which level it is public, whether the ministry cares about the public etc. This is one simple and acceptable explanation and clarification for all. The second reason is that we heard from the government's representatives on the Committee on Agriculture that it is not convenient to publish on the Internet, to stand for someone's name and also to stand for two million dinars. That explanation, Mr. Golubovic, on the board, is quite alarming. It can be interpreted that we have no awareness of whether it's public money, tax money, total money for all of us, and that it's been a long time since the issue of whether or not it's convenient to see how budget money is spent. To those who don't want to know, of course it's not hot. Rules on public finances, rules on the ability to control use have already been established. In the Law on Public Procurement, which was adopted in this Assembly, we have an obligation to place it on the website, information on public procurement. The amendment does not oblige either the Minister or the Ministry, the Payment Authority, or anyone involved in the collection of the register, in any way obliges that we will have that information available. Whether there will be names, whether there will be sums of money, whether there will be no sums of money, so nothing is detailed in this amendment, which would in particular obligate the ministry to violate the Personal Data Act. That we need to have available information, about who got the incentive, who didn't, that's self-proved, if we're behind this in general, to work in public, that all data is available. It remains unclear whether it's convenient, when it comes to legal faces, and it's not convenient when it comes to physical faces. This remained unclear and without reason and on the Committee on Agriculture. We give our support to the amendment with full awareness that any name published on the web site with which the amount of money allocated to it as an incentive can create a problem for anyone seeking encouragement, but he or she must have knowledge and awareness about it before she asks for encouragement. So I join my fellow Members' request to be detailed in this way and I ask Minister Goran Knezevic that if they insist on not accepting this amendment, explain how the data are then made public. What is the content of the public's obligation to register the incentive given in the bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11034	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11035	The attitude is interpretation. Our position is not to be the subject of this law detailing and getting into it, but to be regulated by the rule. We've made it very clear that the data is public, but we're going to regulate that part by regulation. According to us, it is understood, if the public data is that they can be among other things and on the Ministry's website, nothing is disputed, we just didn't want to detail it, we're going to regulate it by regulation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11036	The word is Gordana Komic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11037	I'm glad it's been made public here that the public will be regulated by the rules. What I am not pleased with is that we are asking all the MPs to believe in the word that the regulation will also contain provisions on the availability of data on the Internet. I'm willing to take my word for it, because I think trust is the basis that we need to build as patiently and slowly as there are obstacles to building trust. So I expect the minister to have a rule as soon as possible that will clearly define what the public is in the incentive register. Because if the register of incentives turns out to be a secret, there will be no harm to anyone who has trampled the word given, that it will all be public, there will be no harm to even the minister or the ruling majority. We will all have damage together, as the level of confidence is reduced that the whole process of decision-making on incentives, the availability of data from the incentive register is clear, public and public to the public from whose common money incentives are given. So, I don't think it would bother the minister to accept this amendment and make a clear commitment to himself and the Ministry and confirm his given word that he will be in the public and in the future regulation as a sublegal act, which the ministry has undertaken to pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11038	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, I would like to inform you that the session is attended by participants involved in the project "A programme of internships for young minority members of state institutions in Serbia". The project is being implemented by the Office for Human and Minority Rights of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Please welcome the audience. We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11039	Mr. Minister, Article 11 says incentives from the incentive register are public and are used for the purpose of... If something is public and defined as public, who cares if it's public on the Internet? Is something gonna bother you? We actually have a problem in this country just because it's being semi-public. I'm not saying specifically for you, but generally, everything that happens at the level of corruption, and that's our main problem in this country, is because it's not public. And the Public Procurement Act says it's being published online and it's all public. What bothers someone who uses the incentives of the state, or uses the money of taxpayers of all citizens of this country to be made public on the Internet? That's an even better measure of self-control. If someone's looking for incentives for five cows, and there are three and a neighbor sees it, isn't that the best way to stop corruption in this area? What's wrong with anyone showing up on the Internet that some tycoon agricultural good was looking for and getting an incentive for 30 acres of sugar tail, and it's actually 15? Does that bother anyone? Don't make us think it bothers you. I'm sure you don't mind. I understand what you said earlier that when a sublegal act is passed, you'll have it in mind, but I'm sure it's not a detail if you add it stuck and it's said – and it's published on the Internet. It's not a detail, it's just an obligation in law. We have a manner of, unfortunately, in previous years, a strong expression that everything that is the authority of the National Assembly as the highest legislative body is passed through the law is delegated to the Ministry, that then the minister has the right to interpret it in one way or another, by sublegal acts, but there is really no reason for what it is, and it is a big taxpayer's money not to be public, that everyone in this country knows how much the country has helped which agricultural producer and that it is right and that it is effectively supported in what a man does on the ground. There's no better way than to bring it out publicly on the Internet, and then you'll see how it all works out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11040	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11041	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, there is one alternative variant. We have proposed such an amendment as we have proposed, but there is indeed this possibility that the minister is closer to prescribing the content and manner of keeping the register of incentives, and this is the very authority of the minister in this Article 11. We have just heard that the minister is willing to regulate it, so we really expect the minister to keep his promise and keep it, so before he has the authority to do so in this Article 11. Otherwise, it is characteristic of this bill that the Ministry without the consent of the Government decides on many, many of the facts that are relevant to these incentives. I'm stating that this applies to the article. Three, four, six, nine, and thirteen. In Article 16, paragraphs 5 and 6 the minister has been authorised. Likewise, in art. 18, 25, 26, 29, 31, 33, 35 and 37. So, Mr. Minister, you have huge powers. Your responsibilities are really wide-ranging. Otherwise, the law has 52 members, along with transitional and final provisions. In fact, you are the master of all that concerns giving or not giving incentives in agriculture and rural development. Therefore, when it comes to the public, you have the authority to further strengthen that public with certain data that you will put on the site. We really expect you as one rational minister to comply with this law and act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11042	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment together includes the mid-term MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11043	Thank you. Article 12 defines closer to the Green Book. For the sake of the public, I will say that "Green Paper" represents an annual report by the Ministry of Agriculture in the previous calendar year and the Ministry's obligation to submit this report to the government. It also provides for the content of the Green Paper and is said to contain an assessment of the situation and economic situation of agriculture, as well as a proposal and way of implementing the agricultural policy for the next period. The Liberal Democratic Party has tabled an amendment asking for two basic things in this member. First, the ministry also submits this "Green Paper" to the competent Committee on Agriculture of the Serbian Parliament. We think this is extremely important because of the very content of the Green Paper that there is one thematic session of the Serbian Parliament's competent committee, where agricultural status will be considered in the previous year, as well as agricultural development measures in the coming period. Why does it matter? Because we all declare that agriculture is one of the most significant branches of the economy. If we, as MPs, give up the right to such an important document as the so-called so-called. The Green Paper we're discussing here in the Assembly and on the board of directors, then I really don't see the purpose of any further discussion. Why am I saying that? We've already spoken of this bill as giving some information to the Ministry and Government, and we, as MPs, give up some of that. The second aspect of our amendment is about the financial plan. If this member of the law provides that "Green Paper" contains an assessment of the situation and economic situation of agriculture, as well as a proposal and way of implementing the agricultural policy measures for the coming period, it is logical for us to have financial plans to monitor these measures of agriculture policy for the next period. I again insist on the government's response to our amendment, where for who knows which time it is said that it contains "Green Books" established in accordance with European practice. I saw, reading the Government's opinion on the amendments of some other opposition colleagues, that we have this response all the time – in line with European practice. Can we finally define what European practice is, or use that post-it when we don't know what we need to respond to some of the opposition's amendments, in this case, LDP? I will just remind myself that a similar amendment has been submitted by the DSS parliamentary group in that section that says that the ministry's obligation to present the Green Paper to the competent Committee on Agriculture and, if our amendment is not acceptable to the government because of this second aspect, the financial plan, then at least they should accept the amendment of our opposition colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11044	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11045	When something's good, it's good. It's a good LDP amendment. We expected some kind of green book in the light of this bill to be presented by the minister. It seems to me that as the discussion progresses, more parliamentary groups have knowledge and a clear and objective idea of the disastrously poor situation in our agriculture than the ministry gentlemen. We from the SPO made some kind of green book on 242 pages, in which we analyzed the situation in our agriculture and the proposals for measures. In the light of this law, we see only some information concerning incentives, exports, some general topics, but we do not see a catastrophic situation in our agriculture, a catastrophic situation in our villages, and it seems to me that neither the Ministry nor the Government are aware that a minute to 12 to take radically better and comprehensive measures in line with European policy. Slovenia first did – it revived its village. Today in Slovenia you have English and German pensioners who buy traditional rural households, because they are extremely decorated, it is an extraordinary infrastructure, there are great incentives for the country. From Ljubljana, 30,000 people have moved to Slovenia because of living and working conditions that are largely equal to the conditions of life and work in the city. We, I think, with this law and these measures, do not do anything radically better, but one condition that is disastrously only to some extent as if we were speeding up. If we had a 100-euro hectare subsidy in 2008, and now we have 6000 dinars, 6000 dinars in a few years will be completely depreciated and depraved. It shows the ministers that you, it's nothing personal, you haven't fully seen the situation in agriculture and you're not aware of the catastrophic demographic situation in our villages. Minister, if not only taken out of your jurisdiction, if the government does not bring a series of measures towards reviving the Serbian village and improving the demographic situation, we will be five to 10 years from now, all demographic experts say, losing 1200 villages, which will be completely empty. There won't be any residents. We won't have anyone else to measure it to anymore. Did you know that in 360 villages in Serbia no child has been born in the last 10 years? This isn't just the mission of your ministry. This is the mission number one of the entire government. Unfortunately, we do not see from all of this that you have taken this seriously, this kind of problem and therefore this green book is something that can help both you and the MPs and the government and everyone to take the seriousness of this problem and that year after year we are taking steps to revive the Serbian village that feeds and defends Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11046	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11047	I have to admit, you've offended me a little bit. You're talking about inconclusive me personally. You're talking about the inconclusive nature of the ministry when it comes to this subject. I want to tell you that we have approached these problems in a very serious, very serious and very responsible way. You can count on this administration to work for about six months. You spoke in the congregation about the disastrous drought and the consequences. I've set out three roof targets for this ministry. That's what I talked about several times when I answered parliamentary questions. First of all, the increase in the agricultural budget, which is higher in 2013 by 40% than in 2012, that all debts from 2011, all debts with 99.6% from 2012. We said there was no development without investment. We are on our way to resolve 100m-euro investments. We're starting with the system laws. This is one of the first system laws. Two core European Commission objections about Serbia's progress in 2012, and this is going through from year to year, are exactly a lack of strategy in agriculture, we said that we formed a team that works the strategy because it was an obligation of the previous administration to do so three years ago, so it didn't, so we're doing it now, and the second one was ad hoc policymaking in incentives. We regulate incentives now. So far, it has been over 40 regulations that have been passed annually. We're working on it. The situation in the villages is like that. I know very well. Every day I'm in the villages of Banat and all over Serbia. The villages are abandoned. Every fourth house is full. You think he can do it overnight? I was talking about being with a colleague of the Hungarian, Minister of Agriculture. It has 2.5 billion budgets per year from European funds, and when we add up with that increased budget, we have a total of 500m euros. We will, but we can't do everything. There are 1,000 other things that must be resolved in this Serbia. We're trying to sort it out in a system way. Now we're going to do a list analysis in agriculture. We don't have the data. How could we do an analysis when we didn't have the data? Now, on that basis, we're going to do an analysis and consult with you here. Progress is that green book too. You have to admit it. That hasn't happened yet. That's where we're going to report to the government with the data from that year, with a projection for next year. There are reports coming in front of the Agriculture Committee every quarter. We're going to try to raise it to a much higher level and I believe we're going to make a big step in agriculture.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11048	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 12th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11049	Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the DSS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 12. It's an amendment relating to a green book that's being established and it's good that it's being established. What's a famous green book? It is an annual report on the state of agriculture throughout Serbia's field in the previous year. I'll have you denied right away, Mr. Minister. You say - the ministry reports to the resolution committee quarterly. That's right, but a report on the ministry's work. What we're interested in, and I'm speaking on behalf of the DSS which is the applicant of the amendment, is that we get information on the state of agriculture quarterly. We don't have to quarter. It would be nice, but we don't have to quarter, really. We have tabled an amendment to Article 12(1), where you say - the ministry in the framework of the annual report on work under the law submits an annual report to the Government on the state of agriculture in the previous calendar year, in the following text - the Green Paper. What we're looking for, it's quite fine, and we agree that the government needs to get this information, we advocate that it's a strategic area of agriculture, it's valuable to have information, but at the same time, at the same time, one such report on the state of agriculture is also available to the competent Committee on Agriculture of the NSRS. I think the people sitting on this board are very competent to get this kind of information, very professional to get this kind of information. It is valuable for them, given that committees have a control function and that is also regulated by law, to see what measures have been implemented, whether they have produced results, how effective they have been, what we should do in a further period. I see no problem in any way presenting this report to the committee responsible during a calendar year. That's why I think you should adopt our amendment. On the other hand, I would really ask you, since the DSS MPs read the laws and read the reasons for the amendments that you refused us, that when you write those arguments, you still make sure that we talk like serious people who really got jurisdiction from the people to take care of this country's politics. European practice – in any amendment that has been rejected, it is said that you reject it because it is not European practice. What is all European practice in the area of agriculture? We know that very well, and it would be good for you to tell us in a way that has not been implemented in previous governments, and I'm afraid it won't be now. First of all, here I am talking about that the SAA has signed the previous government and thus Serbia's agriculture and all farmers have been brought into an unspeakable position. That, on the other hand, is European practice. A good European practice would be to subsidise the countries of agriculture and agricultural producers. We, unfortunately, have not put ourselves in a position to be subsidized in the same way, but rather vice versa. So, please, take care when you write explanations, because we read them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11050	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11051	I will use the parliamentary group's time to support the amendment submitted by colleagues Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic. Because it is important to leave beyond any doubt what the meaning of the amendment is, and what counterpart Vojić Markovic clearly said. So that the minister or ministry submits a work report is not the subject of any law. This is the subject of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Law on the National Assembly. A report on work once every three months is submitted on the work of the ministry. The amendment makes sense that once a year, the minister submits a report to the competent board on the state of agriculture. That's two completely different things. When we talk about the ministry's report, on each of the committees to which the minister is coming to submit the report, we mainly have a problem with lack of sublegal acts, mostly a problem with insufficient application or selective application of the laws passed is that the sublegal acts are late beyond what is prescribed in the law. Please let it go beyond doubt. These are the views I have been repeating since I was a national MP, whether it's a government that I support, as a member of the ruling majority, or I'm an opposition. I had suggestions several times that the National Assembly when it receives bill proposals from any area it receives them exclusively with already done sublaws. They told me you couldn't do it because the law would change, so don't even send us the law. Of course the law will be changed. The MP in the German parliament, Peter Struke, first established Struk's rule, which is that no bill entering the Bundestag should come out of the Bundestag in the form it entered. We have a common problem, whoever the minister is, whoever the majority is, with reports where ministers have to talk mostly about the register, about a list of missing sublegal acts, and without which laws are absolutely inapplicable. I want the National Assembly to be a support for speedy work, but quality design, sublegal acts that allow the law to be applied, but it's a report from the ministry and it can't stand in any law, not as an explanation, not as part of any member of the law, because it's a provision from the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the Minister and his associates to consider accepting the amendment that the Minister submits a report on the state of agriculture, on the list of problems, on the list of solutions, can be only good for both the Minister and the area and on the establishment of good practice between institutions as described in the Constitution and the law, and concerns control of the government's work by the relevant committees and the National Assembly in general.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11052	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment with the correction was brought together by the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11053	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we find it very bad that this law limits local self-government and AP Vojvodina in such a way that they can use their own resources from their budget as a measure of support in the development of agriculture and rural development. We ask that the position of Article 13 be deleted for the reasons that such a member is prohibited from direct payments except for crops, that I do not list what you have allowed to local self-governments and AP Vojvodina. On the one hand, Mr. Minister, the government did not accept our amendment that the AP Vojvodina and the local self-government, when we say that incentives are being provided from the Republic's budget, that it stands to be provided from the AP Vojvodina and local self-government, but that you have classified Vojvodina and all municipalities as other sources of funding. With this Article 13, as you say, you limit other sources of funding to what they can spend their own resources on. What is wrong with some local self-government spending money on the development of agriculture in the way they think it will best help agricultural production and rural development in the areas for which they are responsible? What's wrong with that? In your explanation, you say that not all agricultural producers would have equal conditions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. They don't, Mr. Minister, but some municipalities want their agriculture to be significant, because that's the only way they can keep people. What's wrong if they make direct payments beyond what you predicted by law? On the one hand, you place them in other sources, and on the other hand you want to limit them. Here, with this same member, you say that with the consent of the ministry local self-government brings the program. If this local self-government predicts something that is not in line with the state agricultural policy or with state policy, you will not give them consent, you will return the programme to completion. What's wrong, Mr. Knezevic, what are we asking for local self-government programs to be delivered by 31 December of the current year for next year? Isn't it normal to adopt a plan and programme before January 1st that funds from the budget of any local self-government in the following year will be spent? Perhaps we should leave the possibility of incompetent and poorly organized local self-government doing so in May or June of the month? I think it's smarter for the LDP, too, and we think that the programmes should be delivered by 31 December of the previous year for next year. This is how a programme of work of public enterprises is adopted. What's wrong with limiting the deadline for local self-government to bring in programs? Since you are the Minister of Agriculture, you know the Law on Agricultural Land, the local self-government I come from last December has adopted the Programme for the past year – Giving State Land for Rent. Who could have competed? Nobody. Because she's an incompetent local self-government. By adopting this amendment, they would allow farmers and all those involved in rural development to make sure that they know on January 1st how their local self-government will spend their resources.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11054	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11055	It's not symptomatic. I will tell you why it is not symptomatic that, on this proposal for a law on the promotion of agriculture and rural development, a particular opposition party has submitted several amendments to this bill and paragraphs 13 and 4. For a simple reason, because in some way they're trying to bring all jurisdiction to the province of Vojvodina, and we've seen lately, when it was passed, that you were doing bad work on those passed laws. So you've ruined the Vojvodina Bank, the Development Fund. This amendment is not accepted, and the member himself is said to finance the state directly, but has left Vojvodina and local self-government to do something on their own. So this is a law that is a republican level, and it must in some way limit itself and implement agricultural policy as it imagined. If we let many regions or provinces or local self-government do it in some way, the practice has shown that we have come to this extent in agriculture that we do not even have to sell what we need to produce. So, it's a good thing this amendment wasn't accepted, so you shouldn't be angry with the ones who put these amendments on the bill, because I said it wasn't symptomatic, because we expected you to submit these amendments in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11056	Judith, on what grounds. (Judita Popovic: By amendment. I'm authorized by amendment. You're not authorized, just so you know, but well, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11057	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yes, I am really authorized by this agenda point. I'd just like to read an explanation why... (President: Let me remind you, please, if necessary, we need you to provide us with that authority, we don't have it here. ) It was delivered when we spoke in principle and this authority also applies for discussion in particular. The reasons for which this amendment has been rejected, the LDP MPs, the amendments are not accepted, for the reason that it is necessary to ensure the unity of agricultural policy and the measures applied to encourage the development of agriculture and rural development across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so that all agricultural producers, under the same conditions, are able to use incentives, i.e. to be equal with regard to the exercise of incentives in the area of agriculture and rural development, regardless of the territory in which they are located, or to carry out agricultural production. In fact, this argument has brought out all the crucial regrets that we have on this law. You can't treat Serbian agriculture linearly. A different agriculture in Vojvodina is different in central Serbia, and we are not talking about kim, and I remind you, the coalition majority, that in this parliament a declaration that gives so much autonomy in creating all kinds of policies, including agriculture policy in the KIM territory, is simply unclear why in fact MPs from LDP are being criticised for making decisions under this bill, which is centralized by law, for generalising it, makes it impossible for the province of Vojvodina and local self-government to create a policy of incentives on the ground, and thus giving so much authority to civil servants, it is possible to administer some who do not understand how agriculture in Subotica, both in Somboro and in Lazar, etc. There are huge differences, and when we talk about agricultural policy, it's not that simple. It is much more complex than how this bill actually means when in this form it is given to consider this Parliament. It is very important that we respect the differences, respect those individualities that each individual has, but also certain local self-governments, provinces or other parts of the Republic of Serbia. Just by respecting specificities, only in that case will we be able to understand what it is that we can help, what it is that we can favour, and what it is that we can encourage on the basis of such a bill, such as the proposal for a law on incentives and rural development.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11058	Thank you. The word has Minister Knezevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11059	We're a little off topic here. The meaning of what Mrs. Gerov said was this date of 31.12 and giving consent to support programmes. We've been thinking about it, too, but I think a lot of local self-government would be punished then. It happened, and I was an MP here in the Assembly, that we passed the budget law, I think, and 28 and 29, so once, it seems to me, and December 30th. Only after that can local self-government make their own budget decisions, and only afterwards can support programmes be done. Therefore, I think that if they limit it to 31.12, they would make it impossible for many local self-governments to punish them for not being able to get their consent from the ministry later. Under the Administrative Procedure Act, the ministry is required to give an answer within 30 days. So we'll make sure it's short notice. Whenever any local self-government makes its proposal, we will look to respond as soon as possible and give them agreement on these programs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11060	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11061	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, as for the comment on the amendment that is now explained by the minister, I would not agree above all that it is so-called. non-selective approach. On the contrary, the equality and equality of all those who participate in what rural development implies is respected. However, in that sense, with the support of reasons, I would just ask a question that relates to something that has been a practice so far, especially in the territory where I am, where I live and where I come from. It's the territory of the Goldibor County. It is specifically about the incentive resources given to local self-governments, and that is for the purposes of the village in terms of training in the function of Atari roads, waterways and everything that involves the incentive funds that local self-government received each year. I have not noticed in this law the specific position that I am now determining in this presentation, but at the same time I believe that the regulation that will follow as a sublegal act after the adoption of this law, or the adoption of this law, these incentives should be further defined, defined, so that units of local self-government and the town of Uzice should have the incentive funds that they have so far. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11062	Thank you. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Teodora Vlahovic, submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Teodora Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11063	Dear Vice-President, honourable ministers, honourable fellow MPs, I have submitted the amendment regardless of the fact that it was expected. I believe that all amendments submitted to Article 13 should have been considered more carefully, for the simple reason that they intend not to centralise the total policy in the area of agricultural development and that the possibility of both local self-government and the province have the possibility of direct payments to support the development of agriculture. Normally, that is what I said during the debate in principle, it is normal for all agricultural policies to comply with the law and with the national policy of rural development and the development of agriculture. What matters is that it is important to enable more resources to finance an area that is very important to our country. It's on one side. It is not acceptable for me to have one unnecessary centralisation, especially if we know that in the same article we have regulated that everything must be in line with national policy. On the other hand, I believe that certain local self-governments, including the provinces, have some specificities to encourage, if they have opportunities themselves. The second part of the amendment refers to each programme being supported by local self-government and AP Vojvodina should receive support, i.e. prior consent from the ministry. If the national strategy will be clearly written to everyone, and it is expected to be so, I believe that both the local self-government assemblies and the AP Vojvodina Assembly can take care of compliance with the national strategy and that there is no need to seek prior consent, it is sufficient that we have regular reports in the end and that we have co-operation and coordination without this way limiting the functioning of local self-government and the province. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11064	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11065	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first a few sentences about the law. Since we have seen the Government's position on individual amendments submitted by the MPs from the DS and in general all MPs, it is evident that some 127 amendments have adopted 13 amendments. It can be concluded from what has been accepted, from the very character of the law that this law is still bad, that we pointed out in the principle debate. We have calculated that the minister will have more understanding for the opposition's amendments. I do not object to the fact that the minister did not accept any DS amendment, although they did refer to very important issues. In this regard, you can expect our relationship with this law in the voting day. When it comes to a concrete amendment submitted by counterpart Teodora Vlahovic, he went towards giving local self-governments and AP Vojvodina just as much authority as they have under the Constitution and under the law. Let's say, specifically under the Law of Transmitted Jurisdiction. It is not clear to us what is obtained by the fact that any proposal relating to incentives, which will be able to propose local self-government and provinces, will have to be agreed upon by the ministry. I'm not even talking about the fact that it was a practice in the previous case. But you said yourself that there was no system law. When we pass system law, we must take care of all the effects of this law. In this sense, it will be flawed because local self-government and provinces, although they have the opportunity to propose measures, will wait for the minister's consent. You will be covered with these demands from all local self-government, the requirements of the AP Vojvodina and the question is whether you will succeed within 30 days, as you have said and to what the Law on Administrative Procedure obliges you to respond to these requirements. Why waste those 30 days? On the other hand, I fear that the arbitration taken over by this ministry is challenging all the powers that lower levels of government have. This is one of the laws which, in some ways, try to substitute them, that reduces them to the level that each document must be applied for in order to obtain approval and subsequent consent, i.e. to submit reports. I think it was enough that the law provided for a provision that those measures must comply with the law and the Constitution, if you will. Anyone who would make the measures that are contrary to that would directly violate the law and, in that sense, the ministry could react, not in this way, to create a commitment for local self-government and for an autonomous province to apply for the minister to finally give the last word and to arbitration on this matter. I think it's a very bad practice and it won't come from the fact that no DS amendment has any damage to the DS, it'll have damage to the citizens of Serbia, or farmers, because you could respect certain amendments to fix this law, and in certain parts it's very bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11066	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11067	Just like last time I answered you. We either don't understand each other, or we don't talk about the same thing. We do not share amendments to those submitted by the opposition or by the authorities. We have accepted a series of amendments submitted by opposition representatives. It will be one of the next amendments that you spoke of, submitted by Balint Pastor, Arpad Fremond and SVM, which we accepted. It is not true that we have not accepted any DS amendment, we have accepted. We have accepted that not incentives are right for those who process the land, except in the same text another group has submitted, so this one was probably previously accepted. We accepted the date of renewal of the applications for agricultural households, the 31st March of the current year submitted by Mr Petrovic. There, we also accept the amendments to the opposition. We don't just want to spoil the spirit of this law, and in the spirit of this law, it's just that we agree on these programs, because, as you said, it would only be enough if they were in accordance with the law and the Constitution. What if they don't comply with the law and the Constitution? Then what will the follow-up control determine and then what will we talk about? So it's simpler, and it's also been in the previous Agriculture and Rural Development Act. So we kept that member. We think he's good and we think he's in spirit with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11068	Thank you. National MP Janko Veselinovic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11069	I'm staying at the bet that you haven't accepted any DS amendment. You have accepted two amendments that are practically identical to our amendments, but practice shows that in such cases the government accepts the amendments of someone else, not DS. So, no, Mr. Knezevic, this is the first time, either to submit an amendment to the committee in charge or to accept the amendment of some other parliamentary group. Of our twenty amendments you have not accepted any, although you have accepted some amendments in the same text or something amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11070	Thank you. The word is Marjan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11071	You gave me your word, I suppose, by mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11072	I'm sorry, the minister has his word first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11073	Let me just answer that, so I won't answer again, because I believe Mr. Risticevic will answer that as well. If anyone should be offended, then Mr. Risticevic should be offended, because his dozens of amendments were rejected. So we're not looking at whether it was filed by someone in the ruling group or by the opposition, but we're looking at it because of the law, as I said earlier.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11074	Thank you. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11075	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was not angry because my 14 amendments were rejected, because I had already given my suggestions while the law was in the draft. Some of them have passed and some haven't. These amendments I have submitted are at the request of certain agricultural producers, and I have, of course, tried to extract as much as possible, and dry dreninas, which we have left behind after a natural disaster called the previous government. So today, I am very sad that my colleagues in Vojvodina are trying to prove that this law is in a certain way discriminatory and that it has taken away some of the rights of the AP of Vojvodina. I don't mind the fact that the current secretary in the government of Vojvodina, the agriculture secretary, was a third-year college student after ten years of study. So if he hadn't become president of the municipality, I don't think that agricultural college would have even finished. So, I don't mind, I don't consider myself discriminated, although I live in Vojvodina, although I am in a certain way under the authority of such a sophisticated and educated agriculture secretary. Also, I'm very sad... (President: Please return to the amendment, Mr. Risticevic. I have returned to the amendment of Theodore Vlahovic. So it is that European agricultural policy is unique. So they claim that Vojvodina can no longer do so alone without the consent of the Ministry, you read the amendment, determine the elements of agricultural policy. If you are true to the EU, the common agricultural policy in this document, in this law, is prescribed, the EU's common agricultural policy also does not allow its Member States, the sovereign countries that have entered the EU, to establish on their own the elements of agricultural policy, but each of them must implement a common agricultural policy. In this law, it is not impossible for local self-government, or AP Vojvodina, to support farmers, but with the consent of the competent agriculture ministry, therefore, in line with the country's single agricultural policy, as it is led to the EU and called the EU's common agricultural policy, which is being led, I think, for 50 years, it has been in 2012. It's not a newspaper. I'm also disappointed by the fact that there are double standards here, that when we talk about agricultural policy, then we court farmers, and when we talk, let's say, about the budget, then we suggest something quite different. I understand my colleagues, but I don't understand that they have two attitudes on the same issue. We were here when the budget of the Republic of Serbia was adopted and there is the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina, which my fellow MPs are heartily advocated for, and I do not defend them, even those who do not live in the territory of Vojvodina, but their party rules there. I, who live in that territory, was amazed and frustrated by the fact that the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina requested that subsidies in agriculture be reduced from 41,057 billion to 29.802. I have that amendment to the Duke's Parliament here, and I can show it to you. So, to which we ask that subsidies to farmers in Serbia, and thus in Vojvodina, be reduced by 12 billion, and now here we hear that we who wanted to put farmers in an unequal position in Vojvodina in relation to Serbia and listen to the same MPs who advocate some greater rights of farmers, which I support, but you cannot have more rights and equally ask that the agrarian budget, i.e. subsidies be reduced by 12 billion. It's almost impossible, inconclusive, so maybe some magician or illusionist can do it because in this country, only fantasy, illusion, and pre-election promises were produced during the former government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11076	Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11077	Yes, to the minister's presentation. Dear Minister, I don't think you need to combine the amendments submitted by the DS with the amendments of some MPs. It may be a shame, but indeed under great allegations, boldly, that you did not accept the amendment of the MP who said this law would not apply if the EU fell apart. Did you mean that amendment and comparison with the DS amendments? You saw that amendment, right? You didn't accept it, I guess. On the other hand, the chairman, I would not like to open the subject of diplomas today, who, when he graduated, after which he got his post, would be really painful for individual parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11078	Mr. Risticevic, on what grounds, excuse me?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11079	Based on what the speaker said, I suggested some amendment that I didn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11080	You have no right. He didn't call you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11081	How come I don't have a right? He said I suggested some amendment that I didn't. He said I had proposed an amendment that would not apply this law if the EU fell apart. So let me show you that amendment. That's not the amendment I suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11082	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11083	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think Mrs. Theodore Vlahovic's amendment is extremely good. Among other things, this is visible because, on the same background, a practically similar amendment was given by the MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Elvira Kovac, Zoltan Peck, precisely considering that in the position of Article 13, the whole series of exceptions was written, but still insufficient. We are coming to the conclusion that Article 2 - the authorities of Article 1 is that the Autonomous province and units of local self-government, where the same attitude is again towards both the Autonomous province and the Local Self-Government Unit, regardless of certain competences defined by the Constitution. I'm not even sure that's right. However, it has been given that these authorities cannot establish support measures for the implementation of a agricultural policy relating to direct payments, except, and then a list of where both these amendments and other amendments are practically complemented by these exceptions, and essentially that other position should be deleted. I would refer to what it says in this book that each of us has, in Article 183(2), that autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate issues of regional importance in the area, and under point 2 is said – agriculture, then water agriculture, forestry, hunting, fishing, tourism, hospitality and everything else. But the Constitution itself practically guarantees an autonomous province of certain powers and competences, as provided for in Article 183. The Constitution, in order for the current law to make a whole series of restrictions or administrative complications, why it is necessary somewhere to seek the previous consent of the minister, I am speaking about attitude 5, or why they cannot do something, which is stated in Section 2. Together with Mrs. Comic, I submitted an amendment where I sought practical intervention in Section 5. But I believe that Mrs Teodora Vlahovic, with her amendment, gave a more complete solution and a better solution and a solution that is original, on the line of what it says in Article 183. The constitution, which is that an autonomous province, in accordance with the law, regulates matters of regional importance in the area of agriculture. In that sense, I believe that this bill was also meant to go in that direction, to simplify the application of the law as much as possible and to ensure that an autonomous province, especially an autonomous province, and it is good that the units of local self-government have it, but there is no distinction between one and the other. I invite you ladies and gentlemen to accept Mrs. Theodore's amendment in the voting day, I believe that it is heading towards a more consistent respect for Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11084	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11085	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So we're here on the same thing right now. The same is the disputed position of Article 13, although we see that four or five MPs and several parliamentary groups have a problem with this position 2 means that there is a really serious problem. The 2nd position is not good, and you're on your own, Mr. Secretary, and you just admitted that you don't have all the information. So, you don't have the data of Serbia's reonisation not done, you're waiting for a list analysis, how are you going to apply the law and this Article 13 if you don't have the data. Then when all of us here show you that attitude 2 is not good and you are thus practically excluding all specificities of each end of this country, and the fact is that there are many differences in Vojvodina, and in Serbia - how are we going to apply this law? Where there is equality, as explained in the explanation why this amendment has been rejected – so that all participants are equal with regard to the exercise of the right to incentives. They can't be equal, because right now we're not equal society, we're not equal conditions and equal chances for everyone. Some, though, have a much better chance. For that reason, I think it is good that you respect the initiative of all MPs who have had a problem with this attitude and that when the time comes, we hope that when you have an analysis, when you do everything you have to do, that maybe we can talk about this another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11086	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th amendment was filed with the correction by Djordje Milicevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the corrections were not made. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in the basic text in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, and the corrections have not been made. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 13th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Lasslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management has accepted the amendment by correcting it. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11087	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have divided the amendment into Article 13. Proposal for an incentive law. This member of the law refers to incentives that he can give, to specific incentives for direct payments that the AP Vojvodina and local self-government can give. The SVM parliamentary group wants to extend the circle of incentives that the AP Vojvodina and local self-government can give. We want incentives to be given in addition to those mentioned in the draft law and for the co-financing of interest on agricultural loans, re-promaterials, the purchase of agricultural machinery machinery in livestock, fruit growing and vegetables, the purchase of livestock and veterinary services. Otherwise, Article 13 of the Law states in the first paragraph – the authorities of the Autonomous Province and the units of local self-government can establish support measures for the implementation of agricultural policy and rural development policies for the areas of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. So, what has so far been the AP Vojvodina and local self-government have income from the lease of state agricultural land, it goes on the Atari roads and everything else and we only suggest that direct payments to the circle of incentives be extended because it was not a practice in previous years. So, with this amendment, we're just proposing a greater autonomy in fostering agriculture both the AP Vojvodina and the local self-governments that want to give incentives to agricultural producers. The authorities of the AP Vojvodina as well as numerous local self-governments have different support programmes for agricultural producers and which they would like, I am sure, to continue in the previous period. I believe that it is necessary to enable all competent authorities if they wish to do so and to assist agricultural producers. Otherwise, we in the Municipality of Backo Topola from which I come, we have a Agricultural Development Fund, we have various programs, of course according to the programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture, so we always get consent to these programs and these programs are extremely important to our agricultural producers in our municipalities. So, the Committee on Agriculture has accepted this amendment and I now urge you, Mr. Minister, to accept our amendment. Once again, I would like to repeat that the Committee on Agriculture has accepted this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11088	The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11089	I said before when these other amendments were to Article 13(2), we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11090	I'll make a point after the minister accepted the amendment. So in accordance with Article 164(3). I find the Rules of Procedure that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11091	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, is extremely important, it is extremely important that you have accepted this amendment. We believe that by accepting our amendment and our local self-government and AP Vojvodina can continue these programs that have started, we have even somehow expanded the circle of these incentives, which is of paramount importance. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11092	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Komic and Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11093	It is defined in Article 13(4) that the means to implement the agricultural and rural development policy referred to in Article 1 shall mean the means which the authorities of the Autonomous Province and local self-government units may establish by measure. So - is provided in the budget of the autonomous province and units of local self-government and used in accordance with the support programme for the implementation of agricultural policy and rural development policy. So it is defined using, to be used in accordance with the support programme for the implementation of agricultural policy and rural development policy. Now, in paragraph 5 of the Bill's proposal, the programme of this support, meaning under Article 4, brings the competent authority of the Autonomous Province, or the competent authority of the local self-government unit, which is undeniable with the previous consent of the ministry. This part is controversial, i.e. the question is whether this is necessary if it is defined as being used in accordance with the support programme for the implementation of agricultural policy and rural development policy, if we know that Article 183. The constitution defines the right of an autonomous province to regulate the issue of regional importance, such as agriculture. Most importantly, no deadline has been defined anywhere in the bill, except for the deadlines defined in some other regulations, but not in this bill. That is why I find it helpful to adopt this amendment. True, Mrs. Theodore Vlahovic's amendment was more complete, since he regulated attitude 2 and problem in attitude 5, but at this point I urge that the amendment be accepted on item 5 and that it be simply said, "with the previous agreement of the minister" is deleted. This will make it easier for the ministry to do the job. On the other hand, we will allow for the smooth exercise of the mandate of the AP in accordance with Article 183. The Constitution. Again, I must say that I think this amendment is better than an amendment which is in some way a reserve unless you accept this amendment, which is the amendment of Dr. Janko Veselinovica, which has defined a 15-day deadline, for which it is due to the Ministry to give prior consent, i.e. to declare it. In any case, if neither this amendment nor the amendment of Dr. Janko Veselinović is accepted, we will come into a situation that only other regulations define these deadlines, such as the Law on General Administrative Procedure, which I believe is wrong, at least on such an important matter which is in some way regulated by the Constitution itself. In that sense, I propose, regardless of certain other misunderstandings during the text of the law, where the minister is mentioned somewhere, and somewhere there is no consistency with the use of the term, but in any case, only on attitude 5. I propose that this be accepted by the minister. If the minister does not accept, then you ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, in the voting day accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11094	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Member of the 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11095	This amendment is actually corrective to Mr. Mikovic's amendment. So, counterpart Mikovic asked for prior consent to be abolished, i.e. to delete that part of Article 13, and my proposal is a compromise in the sense that the ministry is obliged to issue consent within 15 days. Here, Minister Knezevic, you have the opportunity to show good will, not to show yourself here in the Assembly that the apriors refuse any DS amendment, you can simply accept this amendment. That won't hurt even what was written in the explanation that you gave, because you said that you did not accept my amendment for the reason that according to the requirements for granting consent, it is handled within the general deadlines prescribed by the law governing the administrative procedure. We know it's 30 days and you added a decimal there, trying to keep your deadlines as short as possible. So there is, and it is said – making sure that these deadlines are as short as possible. Then why don't you accept your obligation to arrange your administration in such a way as to succeed in agreeing that within 15 days. The other important thing about deadlines is the fact that we found out today in your presentation that you're planning to bring in sublaws over the next six months. So this law will, in full scope, begin to apply somewhere in the summer of this year. I'm up to the discussion of my colleague, Comic. I believe that no law in this congregation should enter until the sublegal acts are prepared for it. What is the goal of adopting laws that cannot be applied? There's a problem, we pass the law, and we can't apply it because it turns out that half or a third of the sublegal acts have not been passed within a certain period or never been passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11096	Thank you. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11097	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, I support my colleague Janko Veselinovic's amendment. I read the argument given by the Government why it does not accept this amendment, so at the same time, although I am not a lawyer, I read Article 206. The General Administrative Procedure Act, which sets out certain deadlines of a month or two on administrative procedure, and then says – unless otherwise regulated by a special regulation. Why can't this deadline be established and some special regulation regulate this matter too? On the other hand, I have to take advantage of the opportunity because the minister is here that, apart from the incentives in agriculture, there is also a very short time to think about incentives in forestry if it is known that other than agriculture, which is an important economic branch, is also another important branch for the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11098	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11099	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I can't understand lawyers who don't know the right. The law on administrative procedure says any act adopted by the ministry is an administrative act covered by the Administrative Procedure Act. So if we had adopted this amendment, we would have violated that law. That's clearly what it says here. However, when someone mixes the laws, the Law on Encouragement in Agriculture and Rural Development with the Law on Trade, and I am still waiting for that amendment to show me where I was called to submit to this law an amendment saying that if the EU falls apart, that this law will not apply, if such an amendment exists, I would like to be shown to me by those who have stated that I have submitted such an amendment to this law, but it turns out that the lawyers do not know the law, so I have nothing against what they are studying. Besides studying for 10 and a few years, they can't learn anything from their profession again. Those diplomas are a little suspicious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11100	Thank you. National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together tabled an amendment proposing that a new title be added to the article 14a, with an amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11101	Thank you, Your Honor. The Liberal Democratic Party has submitted an amendment to the Agrarian Payments Authority's obligation to exercise administrative control and control on the ground, but, unlike the powers clearly defined in the Agricultural and Rural Development Act, when we talk about the Agrarian Payments Administration, we wanted to define closer to the Agrarian Payments Authority's obligation when we talk about direct incentives, and this obligation applies in this direction to the Agrarian Payments Authority once a year and that it should cover a minimum of 5% of all users who have submitted a request for direct payments, if a certain percentage of irregularities is detected in the case of this control, that for the next year that control part of the control on the ground is increased. Why is this amendment important to us from the LDP? Because it is one way of fighting corruption systemically, along with that amendment to Article 11 that we asked for the register of incentives to be made public, by being published on the Ministry's website. In addition to this amendment, which should be a control of direct payments, it is a systemic solution in the fight against corruption, in case it is, when we talk about the application of the measures provided for in the proposal for this law. The Liberal Democratic Party has already insisted several times in this assembly's meeting on the one systemic character of fighting corruption. I will remind you that we have already proposed a declaration on the fight against corruption, where we have clearly listed ten points of what is needed to be done, we have proposed a survey committee on the ties of capital bearers with political parties. Also, when the 2013 budget debate was held, we proposed an amendment that would introduce the State Audit Committee's obligation to control all payments from the budget to Kosovo and Metohija. All these proposals we have proposed, the ruling majority did not accept and we see that this amendment, which goes in that direction, and that direction is a systematic fight against corruption, the ruling majority will not accept. I'm going back to the argument we got from the government on this amendment we submitted, 14a. This argument states that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the responsibility of the Agrarian Payments Administration is prescribed by the Agricultural and Rural Development Act, which educates that administration and determines its work. I will remind you, Ministers, that in this bill that we are talking about today, in particular, that we have four members, these are Articles 43, 44, 45 and 46, which are prescribed in the Proposal for a Law on Agriculture and Rural Development, then I see no reason why this argument was given to reject our amendment. We have not introduced additional powers of the Agrarian Payments Authority, we have not done anything contrary to the existing law, we have only clearly defined the obligation, when we talk about direct payments, the Agrarian Payments Authority to control the ground at exactly the 5% minimum for the current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11102	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11103	Minister, before I say anything about this amendment, just to be clear, what the SPO is talking about agriculture has been saying since its founding, especially since 2000 and the responsibility for the current situation is not on you, but on all previous governments, and for that reason we, two, three years ago, said on our main committee and a thousand times repeated that many mice had bit off the dreams of the SPO on European Serbia and the European village in 2013. As for this control, 75% of the funds, it seems to me at a time when Ms. Dulic Markovic was Minister, were purposelessly spent and many criminal charges filed. There's that incendiary from Titus's period on the use of the green plan, when you take the funds to encourage agriculture, and instead of the agricultural production facilities or the food production of zero houses, no one's using it. There is, therefore, a kind of control that really needs to be established, given all previous experiences and in order not to fully elaborate this story on our agricultural producers who are using their resources properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11104	Thank you. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11105	The Liberal Democratic Party believes the milk premium should be paid monthly instead of quarterly. The government's reasoning that we have received, which is why this amendment is not accepted, says that since we have a large number of premium-paying producers, it is too much work for the ministry. We ministers, we absolutely can't say that the reason why something won't be paid monthly, and you want quarterly, can be too much work and a big administration. You will surely remember that in the campaign your political party and many other political parties spoke about the excessive state administration, the abolition of a large number of agencies. As far as I know, you haven't abolished those agencies and the ones you did, and you've taken over those workers. Can't these workers deal with this administration? I'm sure it's good for all those who do milk production to get their premium once a month instead of once a quarter. What the law says is that the premium will be paid only for those milk producers that have 3,000 liters of milk quarterly. Thus, all those small farmers who have one or two cows are exempt from this type of compensation. We still believe that since this amendment of ours does not require any additional funding from the Republic's budget, that you should accept the amendment, because we believe that you can find ways to speed up the state administration and that the explanation for which we will not pay the premium monthly, but quarterlyly, cannot be an excessive administration.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11106	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11107	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I think that in the debate in principle, I very fully explained the reason for the amendment, since I considered its submission necessary. In this place, I want to repeat all of what or at least part of what I said on the Committee on Agriculture where I attended as an applicant for the amendment. Not to accept this amendment, as well as the rural development and agriculture law itself, I can't say that it goes to the harm of veterinarians, but that's why it gives them nothing and in some ways completely ignores them. In fact, it shuts them out of control. After all, the consequences of all this are that only the state loses and the way it loses is the next. First, every veterinarian is required to mark every animal under the Veterinary Act. The question arises what happens if a peasant takes off a stamp with a number marked by a certain animal, e.g. A cow or a sheep, etc? He'll seek a premium for those marked animals and the premium for that kind of thing he'll get. So when a number is given and a specific animal is marked, that means that it is examined by the veterinarian and protected. They're gonna ask for a premium for an animal like that, and they're gonna get that premium. When he sells that same kind of animal, whether it's a cow, sheep, etc., e.g. Smuggler, and the smuggler today is massive, and we must mention this on this occasion, that this smuggling is the most massive in Šapac, Novi Pazar and Ruma, then the new owner will take off the stamp that the animal wore nicely. From there they will have no origin from where she comes from, they will claim that it is his property, and then they will naturally ask the veterinarian from their territory to mark the animal by logic, insert it into their database, and thus the peasant will again seek a premium for the same throat, for which the premium has already been sought. This only leads to the abuse of the premium. This way I think only the state loses. When it comes to veterinarians, I think they are the aim of submitting this amendment to me, except that they are in some way included in the control function, which is, in this article of the bill as well as some others, absolutely excluded. We were here at one point talking to the Ministers about seriousness and inconclusiveness. I must say that the highlight of indifference is when the Secretary of State Golubovic on the Committee on Agriculture is false data, first of all, to my question what is paid, or what has not been paid to veterinarians so far? If you don't know, I know, so I'll tell you. They haven't been paid for anything since October. You can get information like that in the vault. For that information you can get at the Institute of Veterinary Affairs. So, this amendment has been submitted exclusively with the aim of not getting anything from the state, and the state has to pay everything that the state imposes on them, that they in some way protect them. Thank you. PRESIDENT: The People's MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11108	This Article 15 seems to us to be one of the essential members of this law, which defines how much milk premiums will be on the delivered liter of milk from the manufacturer, who has the right to premiums and how long these premiums will last. Article 15(3) provides that, in addition to the conditions that must be met by the agricultural holding, that it is registered in the register, that it has reported the number and type of animals and that it has carried out the marking, that is, all the protection measures of a given throat, in order to obtain a premium, should, in a quarter, in three months, hand over three thousand liters of cow's milk, that is, for flat-rate areas, that is, for those areas where the conditions of work in agriculture are difficult, therefore, for mountain-mounted areas, 1,500 liters of milk, we consider it discriminatory. I was just talking about how many households are registered, about $240,000. The data says that at least that much has not been registered yet, and the data says that at least hundreds of thousands of households, mostly those people who do agricultural production more to survive than to earn from it, have one, two or three cows and that they will not be able to enter this category, will not be able to achieve the right to a premium of seven dinars per litre of milk. We don't think that's right and that anyone who delivers milk, who produces milk for the market, should exercise the right to encourage, regardless of the quantity delivered. We're going to get into a situation where someone who has three cows hand over 20 liters of milk, gets a figure of 2,500 liters of milk delivered, and can't get the right to a premium. We don't think that's right. If the purpose of the law is to help agricultural production and to protect the manufacturer because someone smart remembered a few years ago to sign the SAA, which is where the state of Serbia undertakes to fully liberalise its agricultural market in 2014, so today we have a situation, of course, and many other things have happened in the meantime, but we have a situation that the state of Serbia from the former large agricultural producer and producer and milk and dairy products imports many quantities of dairy products. We have come to the situation to protect, and in 2014 there will be an open market, all agricultural producers who are involved in the production, even in the production of milk, so that everyone who hand over a liter of milk has a premium, it doesn't have to be seven, let there be five dinars, and for those who hand over over three thousand, let it be a special incentive. But don't let us discriminate this way on those people who can't reach certain limits. I don't know what the limits are for. Limits serve to encourage those who are larger, and those to whom it may be for survival might be further destroyed and we will create an even greater gap between the poor and the rich. I don't think the spirit of the law is like that to make this kind of discrimination. Incentives and milk premiums are direct payments to be made by anyone involved in the production. It doesn't make sense that those who don't reach these limits, 1,500 and 3,000 gallons of milk don't have any incentive to do that. Well, they hand over the market, and they must be involved in that total milk production. We think, Minister, that this position should be deleted that anyone who gives milk to the market should be encouraged. Even in your explanation, you say that practice has also shown that in order to increase the competitiveness of production, i.e. increasing production and quality standards, this is what is proposed in line with the amount of financial resources. If we're interested in having as much milk as possible, then I guess it's not right for those who hand over larger quantities, we give incentives or premiums of seven dinars, ten dinars, and those who give up less get nothing. Let that premium be five dinars, let everyone make it, and those who hand over three thousand, five thousand, let them have another dinar over it, two more dinars over it. I think it is wrong to make discrimination in this way and that this limit of 1,500 or 3,000 litres of milk submitted for the premium should indeed be deleted from this article, i.e. that this amendment should be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11109	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11110	Dear Chairman, my amendment was identical to my colleague Lapčević's amendment and it is an excellent amendment, I really support it, only my mistake ended up as an amendment to Article 18, and otherwise it is actually the same amendment. Here's the thing. If we look at the reasoning of this law, which the Ministry gave, they eventually have some tables there, so if fellow MPs have read these tables, when we add the amounts, we have a situation at one year's level of 200 million liters of milk to be excluded from dying. So 200 million gallons of small producer milk, those people who have one cow, two, three cows, and now they're thinking about whether they have five or expand their production and we're killing them with this regulation. Now you say to them all, "Sell what you have, and flee to the city." Let's keep these people in the country. They're going to make something. Their milk was delivered, it went into further production. It's gonna be some chocolate, chocolate milk, yogurt, sour milk, whatever. It's gone into further processing. Some processors make money out of it. Why are we kicking them out of this game? Why don't they exercise the right to their premium? Let's give them support. It's a great amendment. I've submitted the same. I don't see why we're shutting them down. I'm talking about people, farmers fighting for their lives. Let's help them cross that line, start making some money out of their own production. Let's stimulate them to grow. Right now, let me say, this is your position we've been looking for to erase is contrary to the goals you've set for yourself. You set yourself a goal point 3. – providing support for sustainable rural development through the improvement of living standards. How can you improve the standard of living for dairy farmers if you don't let them cross that line? I ask you to reconsider, to allow all those who have delivered milk, whose milk has gone into further production, from whose production someone has profit, to have their milk predominant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11111	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11112	We've thought about it, too, but the goal of incentives is primarily to increase quantity and quality. This three thousand liters limit per quarter, that's about three cows. Because there aren't three cows, we assume that this amount of milk doesn't teach, but that for its use, that the neighbor, that he's using or using for something else. So, through economic measures, and these are economic measures, we want to encourage as much production and as much quality as possible. On the other hand, if we were to include all these milk producers, we don't have that kind of money in the budget right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11113	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11114	Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse the dictionary, I may be a little harsh, but what you said is not true, or most of it is not true. You have tens, hundreds of thousands of family households in Serbia that have two cows and hand over milk. Pass a little to Šumadija, southern Serbia, western Serbia. You have hundreds of such villages where there are two, three cows each. A man may not be able to reach the limit. What you said about her having three cows, and she's gonna get to the limit, that's not true. He can't reach the 3,000 liters limit with three cows, because he's a cow in certain moons of rock. When she's kidnapped, she can't give milk to the market. So someone has two acres of land and can't increase it to five cows, and they teach milk. There's nowhere to sell it -- it lives in a village far from the city, it can't make cheese, it's a nursing home, it's got to teach milk. What he teaches, it's going to cost him 20 dinars, and he who has five cows and hands over 3,000 liters, his milk will be 27 dinars even though it's the same quality. I don't think it's really right. If there's no money for seven dinars per litre, let's make it five dinars per litre, but every liter that the state has taken over has to be. I'm not sure, I couldn't get into every site and look at the laws in other countries, but I'm not sure that the milk premiums in Austria, the Netherlands, Germany exclude a certain type of producer. After all, we do not need to implement globalisation in Serbia through this law. This is a classic globalisation of the market. We encourage the big ones, and we kill the little ones. A direct message to those who can't make the premium is that we're missing the job and we're further affecting the reduction of the stock fund. This will also reduce the amount of milk delivered and reduce the number of throats. I think it's completely contrary to the spirit of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11115	The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11116	I think direct support for those who have two cows is to use the state's credit support, local self-government, what we just talked about, to buy that third and fourth cows, to deal with agriculture and to increase the quality and quantity of their products. We don't think domestics with two cows, three chickens, with one pig is a commercial agricultural household that can survive, which can be competitive in this game. We want to stimulate them. We have other measures. Let them go into credit support, let them deal with agriculture, not make a job and taxes, and contribute to getting paid at some company in the city where they work, and this will be such an act for them to come on Saturdays and weekends, or for some nursing household to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11117	Nebojsa Zelenovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11118	Replication to the Minister's presentation. I had an amendment and I waited, I signed up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11119	You're not the bearer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11120	It's an identical amendment, it's just a printing error.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11121	He can't. You have no right. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11122	Mr. Minister, I understand that you want to encourage as many throats as possible, to take loans to expand production. Look, to increase the number of throats, it's not enough just to take credit. First, you should have conditions for that. Secondly, you should also have plant production that will monitor those throats. What if a man has two acres of land and can't feed more than three cows? He can't. What are we going to do, deny it for those seven dinar premiums? That's not right. On the other hand, that there's a small number of these households, so that through the incentives of non-commercial agricultural holdings we can somehow replace it, then okay. But it is hundreds of thousands of such households, and it is not a small amount of milk, which is also from the data that is in this law – 200 million liters of milk, and 200 million liters is not small and cannot be achieved from a small number of households, but rather a huge number of households. You give us not to go, because this is how a very ugly message is sent – we will encourage those who have a lot and in that production give a large amount, but we will also encourage those tycoons who, in one way or another, have reached a huge number of throats and huge quantities. That's really not right. We're going to get into a situation where the state encourages tycoons to have thousands of throats, to have hundreds of thousands of acres and that they have an incentive from the state without those who have three cows and do their job fairly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11123	Mirko Chikiriz, on what grounds? (Mirko Chikiriz, from the post: by amendment) You have no right, you have wasted the time of the parliamentary group. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. By amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11124	I have absolutely the right to support the amendment. This amendment is extremely good, as is Mr Zelenovic's amendment, although he did not get the word to support Mr Lapčević's amendment again. It is that the amendment proposes to help the poorest. Is it more important who is a tycoon, is he who is richer than he who is poorer and who tries to make it with one or two cows to provide for his own existence and for the members of his family? I return to this book, which each of us has, which is the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, where the prohibition of discrimination is defined in Article 21, that all are equal before the Constitution and the law. Should the bill now make some more equal than others and be more equal to those who are richer? Or should we pass such a law that will provide, if not favoring those poor who need support and more, then at least all of them should be the same. In that sense, and I support this amendment and I believe that both Mr. Lapcevic and Mr. Zelenovic have absolutely addressed the problem. I therefore appeal once again to Mr. Minister, and unless the minister or ministry accepts it, since we are wandering about the name of whether the ministry or minister is responsible, Article 13 states the consent of the ministry, and Article 15 is the minister who has certain powers as an in-house body. Regardless of all this, you ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, you have the opportunity to accept Mr. Lapčević's amendment in the voting day and I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11125	Nebojsa Zelenovic, by what right?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11126	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11127	You can't talk twice on the amendment, you've already spoken.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11128	I have rights. I have the time of the parliamentary group and I have the right to speak by amendment. Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11129	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11130	Thank you. What's this about? We're talking about 150 thousand small producers, 150 thousand small households who are somehow struggling to survive. How are you going to help them? By shutting them down. What are you shutting them off from? What kind of game is this that you haven't prepared people for in this country at all? Then you include them in a call some game where they're supposed to compete with some who have 1,000 cows and some who have 10,000 acres. What kind of game is this? Instead of helping them, to give them an even greater incentive to develop them and maybe to return to this sad village of ours, you send them a clear message that you will finance. So what do these poor people say? What is this new government? Who's she fighting for? Is that what they promised? Do they keep what they promised? Please reconsider, to return the premium for every liter of milk produced in this country from anyone he encouraged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11131	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Is it a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11132	You can do it as a replica, and as an authorized one, it doesn't matter. Minister, you've given one principled answer, but I ask you that according to all that we have spoken as arguments why this limit should be abolished, please make one more statement. I think the purpose of the law should be to strengthen Serbian agriculture, to strengthen producers and protect them from the open and harsh competition you are preparing for next year. When the borders open and millions of gallons of milk from other countries that are far more predominant than these are, how will our poor peasant in western Serbia, Toplica in Southeast Serbia, in eastern Serbia, who has no chance because of the limited amount of land he has to hold more than three cows, how will he be able to fight the market and how will he survive? Let's not make people who are some useful bolt in that agricultural production of them social cases again, not to make them miserable. The state has no money for seven dinars, so let it reduce that limit to five dinars, let it give everyone for every liter of milk delivered. Make it five dinars of premiums, and for those who hand over a certain amount to encourage them through other mechanisms. There are various mechanisms. You can encourage by the number of throats. The following members are scheduled to make 20,000 dinars for dairy cows. Put it in a limit of over five cows and let that incentive be realized and here is how you will improve both the number of throats and the production of milk. Indeed, there is no rational reason why a milk premium would be abolished for those people who do not meet this limit that you have prescribed. There's no logic, no rational reason. I really think the production of milk in Serbia will be further demoted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11133	Time. Thank you. Minister Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11134	There are some arguments you're talking about, but I'm still staying on that we need to speed up the competition, that we need to promote quantity and quality, and these people who can't make that happen should be the subject of some other law. I agree that the state needs to help them in some way, but not through this incentive law, which is a whole other objective.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11135	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's all too high now. Mr. Lapcievich, you have the right to a replica, but it's losing its meaning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11136	Don't lose any sense, Mr. Chairman, because this is the essence of the law. The point of the whole story is this. Now, through what you have declared and through the bill, you have actually sent a message that no producer from the village in which my parents or a few percent of the producers in the entire Toplice can count on these incentives. In eastern Serbia, too. In western Serbia, the situation is similar. These incentives from the state can be counted mainly by those who have large farms in Vojvodina, partly by the Woodland, and the rest of the country is their problem. Let them know how they know. This law also deals with rural development. There is no rural development unless you have allowed a man who produces fair milk and gives it to the state to achieve these incentives of the state. There's no development here. It's just a law that will empty the extra villages, where people will sell the little cattle they have because they can't fight those who get higher prices for the milk they give, and they do the same. Imagine the situation, the man has three cows and gives away 2,500 liters of milk, and the man next to him has five cows and gives up 3,500 liters of milk. His milk is 27 dinars and his neighbor's milk is 20 dinars. Is that fair? That really doesn't make any sense. Please, I hear you have no intention of stepping away from it, but I don't think it leads to anything. It will completely bring down those hundreds of thousands of producers who hand over those 200 million liters of milk. What do you think, next year or 2015, when the analysis is done, will it be that 200 million liters that don't come in? They won't, because it'll cut the stock fund. We'll have a counterproduct. I'm sure we'll see someone else in six months or a year when the law changes that this isn't right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11137	Time, Mr. Lapchev. Mr. Zelenovic, on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11138	By amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11139	You can't do this anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11140	I'm talking about the time of the parliamentary group. You have no right to act like one.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11141	I apologize to Judith Popovic. The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11142	Article 27 has been injured since you are obliged to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. The right of every MP from any parliamentary group is to appear by the end of the time of the parliamentary group, and you have no right and the possibility to restrict anyone in this matter, only when the time of the parliamentary group is up then can you tell Mr Zelenovic or any other MP – I am sorry, you have no more time and you cannot do so, and I do not give you the replica because it is the discretionary right of the chairman. Until then, you have no right as chairman to say – according to my assessment or in any way you have no right. Having seen that they have the same amendment Mr. Lapcevic and Mr. Zelenović, regardless of the error where it is different, you have no reason to restrict anyone to the exercise of rights that are guaranteed to all of us MPs and MPs in the same way. Every MP and every MP has the right to exercise in the same way the rights defined by the Law on the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and therefore I ask you that if Mr Zelenovic wanted to give an additional argument as to why the amendment of Mr Lapčević should be supported or why it should possibly be accepted by the Minister's argument, he changed his mind. In any case, as long as the debate under a certain amendment is concluded, it is right to discuss the amendment using the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11143	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. I'd like you to find me a member where an MP under the same amendment is allowed to report seven, eight or ten times. It doesn't say anything. We won't discuss it. You have the right to declare that we are voting on the violation of the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11144	Since you asked me to explain, I'd be happy to explain where it stands. In any case, it stands in the section of the Rules of Procedure, which defines the right of each parliamentary group to use the time aside of the two minutes each MP has to use according to his own amendment, everything else enters at the time of the parliamentary group. There is no possibility of a restrictive interpretation of this provision. Anyway, there's a possibility within full time. For this there is an explicit provision in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11145	I stand by my position. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11146	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, during this debate, something was actually crystallizing that we from the LDP were right when we submitted the amendment to one of the previous members we discussed because he was in full connection with the debate on this amendment. Then we asked the question – do we really need to separate the commercial and non-commercial family agricultural holdings? Then we said how much this law has an arbitrary mistake because Article 6 introduces the term – non-communicative family agricultural land and we said how much trouble there will be in applying this law. However, given that the minister has the right and the power to regulate, by means of a sublegal act, the regulation regulates the way of incentives to be paid to these non-communicated family agricultural holdings, then the possibility remains that, in some foreseeable time, these subsidies should also be granted to these agricultural holdings which are not able to enter the market and to operate on the market. Whenever laws are passed, they have to be considered in some context. By submitting the amendment, we were thinking this way, counting on the question of the social aspect of agricultural production to be subject to another law and that is demagogy if non-commercial family agricultural land is subject to this law. So as soon as we discuss today whether anyone has two cows and has the right to grant two cows, then it is already a problem that will increase even more during the application of this law. Therefore, given that the minister has these strong powers, literally, to lead agrarian policy in terms of giving or denying incentives, or subsidies to farmers, I think that during this debate he was able to understand to what extent there are open issues about how to give support to those non-prepared families, they are unable to operate and to produce by some market categories and standards. The minister took on himself a huge responsibility when he agreed to propose such a law and to explain the effectiveness of this law and when, in his presentation, he presented all those plans and programmes that represent the agrarian policy that this ministry will lead by having, in a very broad way, taken the opportunity to decide on incentives, and in doing so, the budget is so poor, there is so little money and so limited the possibility of financial aiding agriculture. We really need to take care of the extent to which we are willing to take responsibility when the law is proposed and to what extent we are ready to end this law and to implement it. It is obvious that there will be problems with the realisation of this law, especially if the Minister of Agriculture is not in some short time, it has decided in due course how to support these non-commercial agricultural landowners and do not work for the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11147	Mr. Zelenovic, since they convinced me it was practice, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11148	The Honorable Chairman, given that I have the right to two minutes later when this same amendment, which fell by mistake there, is not going to be used because you've now allowed me to say what I wanted to say, and it's about the milk premium. So we're talking about 150 thousand small producers that have one, two or three cows. It's not true that you just said it's people who live in the city, and they have a cow in the village, so they work in the city, and that's what they do in the village to make peace. That's not true. You don't have good information. You yourself admitted at the beginning of the debate that you do not have all the data, that you have not yet received a list analysis. I have the information that was provided to me by the Association of Milk Producers of the Mačvan County and the Association of Cow breeders from Sabac, as well as the Association of Farmers. All of them, during the public debate on this law, asked for this provision to be thrown out and every liter of milk to be killed. I think I'm right. So if it means anything to all of them and if they're all asking you for it, it's a serious problem and that's the exact data. These excuses you made are not good. The biggest concern is what you said at the end, which is that there's no money for the little ones, there's no money for the poor. That's not good. You have to sort of change it, coordinate it. I repeat again, there must be money for the little ones, it has to be. The money for small producers has to be found and they have to get a premium, like everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11149	The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11150	This amendment shows what I mentioned in the principle debate about how far this law has not been laid down. We haven't made a distinction in this law between commercial land and non-communicative land. That's one thing. The second thing, we did not make it clear in the law, as the minister said, whether we are giving incentives only to commercial owners and whether we are encouraging people to go to higher production or making incentives to increase the total production, in this case, of milk in Serbia. If we are for this second, and I don't see any reason why we shouldn't be, then we can't give up hundreds of thousands of small milk producers. So I don't have much to discuss, and it's already said, I think the solution, which someone suggested, is in a differentiated premium. The only solution to this situation is that, because I stand by those who have suggested that no one should be destimulated in production, not milk, but anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11151	The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11152	I gave up on it. Just confirmed I'm right about the application of Article 158. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11153	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11154	I'd like other colleagues from other parliamentary groups to consider what we've been talking about in the last half hour. What the minister said in the principle debate, that he held several public debates on the law, and mostly the Macvi, Western Serbia, did not go through either central or southeastern Serbia and that he does not know the situation in the villages of Southeast Serbia. In these villages, 95% of the population has three, four cows and will not reach this limit that has already been set. The villages in Banat are in a similar situation, not everyone can get into a situation where they have seven dinars of premium. Another argument in favor of what we're saying, which is that those who produce and hand over 50 liters of daily milk are further stimulated by the buyers and milkers themselves. The milkman dies for producers who give over 50 liters of milk with two dinars per litre. Those who are large producers who need more than 50 liters will now have nine or ten dinars of milk premiums, and those who cannot reach that limit will have nothing. It's not unfair, it's discriminatory and it puts those people in a difficult situation who can't reach that limit. A little while ago I heard the idea from some of my peasants that they would join together and one would teach for both of them, and it would reach a limit and reach a premium. It makes a mockery of the law itself, you haven't heard me, Ministers, but those who hand over two and a half thousand gallons of milk will have to team up with the neighbor, and in one name they will surrender, in order to make a premium. This story is falling into the water again. Do not discriminate between milk producers. A liter of milk is a liter of milk, regardless of whether over 3,000 gallons of milk has been delivered in mass or below. A liter of milk deserves a premium from any manufacturer. Don't make that discrimination. Delete this attitude, and for larger quantities of dairy, give incentives, two dinars over 50 liters that teach. The state can introduce some special incentives. Reduce the premium. For five dinars shall be for all, for every liter of milk, and for the greater amounts ye shall give more. I think that's the most rational and normal solution. We're going to get those 150,000 families who deal with this, live from it, have no help from the state, and will practically be forced to sell cows and no longer deal with it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11155	The word has the People's MP Cedomir Protic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11156	Mr. Minister, I don't think we understand each other in some of the elements here. For over three or five cows, we have money to give them, and for those who have three cows we don't have. It's the state's interest, I agree, that they all have five and 15. With that premium, we'll help those who have two or three cows, and they'll cross one limit, so the next day they'll be what you want. This is one of the amendments I find very reasonable, and you should really accept this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11157	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 15 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. Does anyone want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11158	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman, you must include me in order to get word. As far as my amendment is concerned, he can be called – for an old man, an old woman and a cow. I put a few things together here. One is the minimum amount of milk premium, I put the equivalent of seven euro cents instead of seven dinars, but of course in dinars. Since everything in this country counts in euros, this minimum amount, given that this law is long-term, does not depend on which assembly is set here, does not depend on which minister is presently here, which will be four years from now, things are changing in politics, but I thought, since inflation and course may threaten this premium and lower it in real terms, I suggested that this premium be a liter of seven euro centres in dinar equivalent. As far as the quantity is concerned, in the first five years, I have proposed a transitional period, for the quarterly period in the developed areas of quotas to be of 1,200 liters of milk, and in areas with difficult conditions, it is 600 litres of milk. In some ways, I have prescribed the obligation that every liter of milk be premiumed, but that it must be handed over or sold in some way, so that processors can plan their production. It's a similar amendment to my colleagues' amendment, but it's been given for a number of reasons. One reason is that there is a hyperproduction of milk in Europe. At the moment when protection falls completely, we will be applied by those who have far greater premiums and subsidies than we do, and have a hyperproduction of milk. There are also low-milk cows that give less milk, but that's why they give junada when they're pregnant. We've got a shortage of junk meat. Where there's milk, there's meat. So we can't meet at this point towards the EU or the 10,000-ton quota we got, and in the future, as far as I know, Europe is missing 700,000 tons of June meat, so in the future we're not going to develop the production of junk meat unless we have cows that are going to calf. In order for us to have that, we must in a certain way, at least in the first five years, encourage and give premiums and farmers who have fewer cows, given that it is areas that work under difficult conditions. I think this amendment is important because of non-commercial households. You have commercial and non-commercial. It is commercial to bring surpluses to the market. Today you have households in Serbia where the average area is slightly less than four hectares, and the EU has 80% of the land area of less than 10 hectares. So here you have a premium for about 100,000 cows, when you calculate that, a litre of milk and a number of throats when you divide, it's going to be about 100,000 cows, and my suggestion is that this number increases and that low-milk cows can compete in a certain way, or owners of these cows, for these premiums. What we save on the road, we'll pay on the pot. I agree with the minister that it will be encouraged by other funds. The minister responsible for the social, health care, once said here that farmers who have half a hectare can be a social case. We're not going to let those who have two, three acres of land put in a position to sell two acres of land to someone else, or to alienate it, abandon it, not process it, to exercise the right to be a social case. Non-commercial households will be encouraged from the budget, one or another. To remind only that in Croatia non-commercial households, which are insured as farmers, have a support of nearly 3,000 euros, and that those who have obtained the pension right have a support of close to 1,500 euros without having to produce anything. I've bound my amendment here anyway in a way that such households, which are semi-commercial, have a certain number of throats, have the right to make subsidies to this minimum number of liters that I've listed, which is about one, possibly two cows. This applies only to the first period of five years. I believe there's not enough money. Croatia currently has a working area of about 800,000 hectares and 600,000 pastures, with an agricultural budget of close to 800m euros. Once it joins the EU, it will also have 800m euros. So their farmers will only move from Croatia's budget to the EU budget. At this point, we have a budget that is barely slightly larger than 400m euros. I will understand the minister if he tells us that these solutions, which my colleagues and I have offered, will be considered after a certain period of application of the law, since our funds are limited to 400m euros and on the one hand we have a political party of billionaires and millionaires who have asked the amendment to reduce funds from the agrarian budget, and on the other hand we are asked that these rights be not only reduced but also extended. I understand that there's not enough money, that the agrarian budget has increased from 2.5% to 4.5%, and next year it's going to be a whole 5%, as I understand it. With that basis, I am pleased that this law has taken a few steps forward, but I am not satisfied that I think this problem should be observed in the way that colleagues have brought it out, given that it is not only our goal to produce more milk, since, when we enter the EU, they will recognise some quotas, some will not, full protection will not be for 10 years, but through milk we come to increased meat production, of course, with those 10,000 dinars, which I also welcome, by the June, we will also have some better production, but in order to have better production of junk meat, we have to have a certain number of cows. In this way I suggested, I think that the cattle fund would be improved, so that people would preserve the existing stock and given the leeway of this provision, in the coming period, increase that stock to one enviable number so as to raise it through the production of milk, that is, through cows that are not highly milky, to raise meat production and not to punish those who do so. However, the law implies these difficult working conditions and the quantity has been reduced twice. Since, most likely due to the lack of money in the agrarian budget, this amendment cannot be adopted, however, I ask the Minister of Agriculture to follow milk production in the next period of time, of course, and that in the following year, if not in this year, we find the money to expand the circle of users, i.e. that semi-commercial households that work for themselves and for the market, find a way for that subsidy, or for the milk premium to come to them, since we really need it, besides milk, and for the production of juniper meat and for that to have a market in advance. What bothers me is those double standards. So, these obstacles to getting milk premiums, these conditions have existed so far. Not every cow, not every liter of milk had a premium. Hence, I am surprised that those whose regulations apply today, those who have prescribed selective measures in the production of milk, or in milk premiums today, have changed their policy, even though their rules before the entry into force of this law will apply and the height of their premium of five dinars per litre. So those regulations apply. It was brought by a party led by a billionaire. Now the premium has increased seven dinars. There's a selection, but I think the minister should consider spending the list of milk premium users next year. So much for this case and the problem. I think the minister might be able to say something on the subject of this discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11159	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Teodora Vlahović, Gordana Komic and Srdjan Mikovic submitted together to the 15th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11160	Ms. Teodora Vlahova and Gordana Comic, together with me, submitted an amendment to Article 15, where we suggested that one word be deleted and stuck. What's this about? Article 15(2) and (3) provide for conditions to be met in order to have the right to a premium. The opinion of the 5th proposed member states – the minister is closer to prescribing the conditions, the way and the form of a request for the right to a milk premium. I ask the question - what have we regulated in attitude 2 and paragraph 3? If the minister has a discretionary right to determine the conditions, then we should not prescribe the terms of the law. Then it is necessary to give clear authority to the Minister that the National Assembly is not going to do what needs to be done, to determine the general conditions applicable to the erga omnes, which apply to each individual in the country, but to give discretion to the government, the ministry or the minister to decide as they please. I also pointed out that when it was a matter of budget and when it was a matter of the budgetary system, great discretion was given, the government decided on a proposal by the minister for everything and everything. You see, here in the National Assembly of November 23, 2012, we have a draft law in the procedure proposed that the National Assembly decide on what the National Assembly should decide, on conditions, on criteria, on criteria. This is one law that I have proposed just given that this law on the establishment of maximum earnings in the public sector is said – the criteria and criteria should be established by the Government. In the same way, I suggested how the government did it and we still don't discuss it here in the National Assembly. We will have the same situation if we adopt an unchanged member of the 15th law, because it defines that the minister is closer to prescribing the conditions, the way and the form of a request for the right to a milk premium. What did we write all those conditions in attitude 2 and in paragraph 3? What if these conditions are different from the conditions provided for in point 2 and paragraph 3 because the minister is said to have the right to determine the conditions? Are these conditions the same, different and to what extent can they be different? That is why I have proposed what is only possible - let's define the rules for everything in advance, and then let's mandate, what is the authority of the government and the ministry, to apply the law in practice. That is why only a reason why our amendment, the amendment by Mrs. Theodore Vlahovic, Mrs. Gordana Komic and my personal – is not accepted for reasons why, in addition to the conditions laid down in the draft law, where precisely regulated who is exercising the right to a premium, there is a need to prescribe additional conditions that would refer to the right to a milk premium based on quality. These additional conditions will be able to be defined and therefore there is a need for the minister's authority to prescribe additional conditions. I'm not sure this is okay. Or, if this is okay, let's give the minister the authority to work and prescribe conditions everywhere, and we get along nicely and there's no need to even consider the law in principle, or amendments, we need that general provision. I believe that if we pass the law, if we adopt the law, if we prescribe certain conditions, criteria, criteria and everything else, we need to know in advance what rules apply to everyone. It's not the same thing if someone is going to invest in production if they know the conditions or if these conditions are changed. One thing is whether or not you will accept the amendment of Mr Lapčević and Mr Zelenovic who said – let's support the poor, but that's better than not knowing what the conditions are. That is why I believe that if we pass the law, there must be certain legal certainty for all those who are turning production and who are trying to organize production so that we all don't get better and that the state is finally better and that more production is finally achieved. Finally, what we have received in response to the amendment I have seen, and I have read the detailed reasoning of the law, does not stand on page 29, 30 or 31 of the entire material, i.e. on pages 9, 10 and 11. It is not said and it is not explained why certain powers should be given in advance to the minister, in addition to what you MPs have decided to be conditions, to be regulated differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11161	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11162	Mr. Mikovic, I really don't know how to answer you anymore. For the third time, the fourth time you've wanted to introduce yourself here as a great tribunal, a supporter and protector of the poor. Have you wondered how there was this number of so many poor people in this country? Your government has left 400,000 people out of work for the past four years. The same regulation, the same rule, this 3,000 limit, of 1,500 was during your government. Then why didn't you fight to make it not so, but now that we're talking about things that concern one of the most important segments of our economy, you're starting to deal with politics? I don't think that's right. As far as this amendment is concerned, you are talking about the conditions prescribed by the minister and the ministry. This is one newspaper. So we want to move milk by quality. In order for milk to die of quality, certain conditions must be met. So we have to have labs that can track it. When we have labs, we don't have them now, and you ask yourself why, because the funds are also taken from European funds, and they haven't been made yet, so, when we have them, these laboratories, they'll have to write down the conditions for how milk is going to predominate. Well, what's weird about that?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11163	Thank you. Mr. Mikovic, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11164	I don't see what Mr. Minister is worried about and why there's a need to address anyone directly and therefore there's a need for anyone to express their qualifications. I stick to the discussion of proposing amendments, I'm talking about the proposed amendment, in no way have I expressed the value of the court on any individual here in the National Assembly. I don't see why Mr. Secretary was upset and the place with the strength of the arguments used by the strength of the speech. That's why I'm trying here and Mr. Minister and his ministry to convince the need to regulate matter in another way from Article 15. It's a bill of law. Which is why you're worried, I don't understand. Give an answer, we want to accept, we will not accept or give an answer – we do not know what the conditions will be. But I don't see why the matter that needs to be regulated in law should be discreetly entrusted to the minister's decision. Don't we know right now that if the ministry has these skills, what quality milk should it be? The moment the conditions for a certain quality of milk are obtained, there is a possibility that this idea can be applied. There is a possibility and a delay in applying a certain provision, but obviously there is no will here to define those relations in advance, to define the conditions in advance, but to give discretionary rights. This is where I'm looking - give me the conditions for advance. (President: Time. Let me finish my thought. Give the conditions for advance, that anyone who organizes the production of milk knows what quality milk should have.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11165	Dear People's MPs, you have received the resignation of MP Ljubica Vasic as MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, to discuss this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. Accordingly, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of People's MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office has ceased before the end of the time on which it was elected to the MP Ljubica Vasic, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a regular break of one hour. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11166	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dragan Markovic and Petar Petrovic submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 16 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the occasion of the previous amendment, MP Marijan Risticevic reported. Please, I didn't see your application.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11167	I have submitted an amendment to a previous member relating to the payment of milk premiums. These are the only incentives, i.e. the only premium that farmers, or beneficiaries of agricultural land, receive directly but receive through legal persons and entrepreneurs. In an explanation of the rejection of the amendment, the government stated that the funds cannot be blocked on the basis of an emergency payment, and my amendment applied that the funds of the previous position must be paid to the user and cannot be blocked by the legal person or the entrepreneur on any basis, nor can the account be prevented from paying the premiums to the user because of the minus. With this amendment, I wanted to warn entrepreneurs through whom farmers, or registered agricultural holdings, hand over or sell milk, that those legal persons cannot suspend the premium by artificially making a minus because in practice it happens that companies that are handed over milk after a certain time, a month, two days, stop working, make some minus, the milk premium funds go away for a completely different purpose and are not paid to users or that entrepreneur simply doesn't exist anymore. The peasants cannot be psychic, i.e. farmers can't be seen and cannot know with certainty who they should be selling or handing over milk, which of these companies will be stuck in a minus and they remain depriving of those funds, since premiums are paid quarterlyly or three months. So, within those three months, many of these companies disappear, they go bankrupt. The point of my amendment was that the funds obtained on the basis of the premium must be paid to the users, that they could not be blocked on any basis, or that any downs in the business of a company, or entrepreneurs, could be closed by means of a milk premium. This is the same thing about Article 8 that I'm going to withdraw, where I was predicting where non-payment of contributions can't be the reason for failure to pay off incentives, since the government has stated that it won't be the case, and it used to be the case. So, that amendment to Article 8, I will withdraw, and this, if the minister makes guarantees that no milk premium can be the subject of alignment. Since the minister said so, I will withdraw the amendment in writing to Article 8 and Article 16, because so far it has been a practice to exclude farmers from the premium due to non-payments, from subsidies, so that they are double-punished – they are not retired-involved, they have not received premiums, and in this other case, it has happened that milk premiums have been used to cover their shortfalls and that farmers have never won on their own account. Since it is a premium that is not paid directly to agricultural holdings, I needed the minister to confirm that it cannot be subject to any forced collection. Thank you. So I'll withdraw the amendment in writing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11168	Does anyone want a word about the amendment to Article 17? (No) Since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable his participation in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a decision by RIK on the allocation of the MP's mandate to complete the vacancy in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has confirmed that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the selection of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Angelkovic, elected from the election list Ivica Dacic – SPS-PUPS-JS. On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of Members of the People, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Zoran Angelkovic. I congratulate the People's MP on his election, and I ask him to approach, for taking an oath. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, let us approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to approach the signing of the text of the oath. The 17th amendment with the correction was filed by MP Zoran Kasalovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11169	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, Mr. Minister, has already taken the opportunity in the debate in principle to point to certain problems in livestock and the need for certain incentives for livestock in the Republic of Serbia. It is obvious that the argument with which we were then faced an understanding of our government and a resolute ministry headed by Mr. Knezevic and a set of amendments to Articles 17, 20 and a new Article 28a were adopted which one systemically introduces incentives for livestock. Of course, accepting a set of our amendments creates one predictable environment and agrarian policy for the long term for the development of livestock. For reasons of getting to know our idea and citizens who listen to this debate, I would like to say that in Article 17, we have provided incentives for the parent hens of a difficult type, parent hens of an easy type and parent turkey, and in the following articles we have more specifically defined the amounts in which this topic will be encouraged. Why does this matter? First of all, there have been no more serious incentives in livestock, and I appreciate that the resolution minister and government have indeed recognised in this sense the need for incentives for livestock, because it is necessary to stop an unfavourable trend, the historic minimum of parent flocks that are actually the base and base of livestock, where in a few years it is reduced by a whole of 230 thousand pieces, which is some potential for new 30,000 tonnes of meat. In this way, we appreciate that this unfavourable trend will be stopped and that domestic production in livestock will take its place and we will not be in a position to make the state of Serbia dependent on imports of meat, eggs and everything produced in livestock. On the other hand, I think that, in this way, through an incentive in livestock, a good part can be influenced by a clear situation so far, that we have great traffic and production in the gray zone. Some of the papers that were publicly delivered say she's somewhere and 40%. I do not want to believe that it is in this amount, but certainly through the incentive it will contain a gray zone, and this will primarily contribute to improving the health conditions of the product, and thus to the population, which is certainly the most important, but on the other hand, by introducing certain production and transport will certainly increase revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Of course, livestock needs investment. Agriculture is a branch that, with certain investments, can complete the production finalisation and stop the unfavourable trend in agriculture that speaks of the majority of primary agricultural production exports with low additional value. In this way we create conditions to try to dominate the structure of our exports through the finalisation of products. Of course, support from the state is necessary in this business. It's a good thing the ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia recognized this idea of the SPS. We appreciate that the most significant company and livestock company, Agroziv, has shown its results that livestock is a perspective. In this direction, I personally expect both the government and the resolution ministry to continue to express certain support both for Agroziv companies and for smaller participants in livestock. There, in particular, this company, with small investments at the end of the new line of slaughterhouses, can be significantly improved by quality, but also by production, which would certainly create preconditions for exports to many of the markets in which these products are sought. Mr. Minister, of course, by accepting these amendments, it is important, I appreciate, to improve this one system law. In this sense, we want to fully express the support of the SPS Parliament Club for this law, and certainly also the plans of your ministry in terms of designing a long-term agrarian policy, investment and all that will contribute to the improvement of our agriculture, and by definition it will also contribute to rural development, because it is the basic engine of development primarily in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11170	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17 of the amendment, the People’s Parliament of Olena Papuga submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 167(6), The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have submitted an amendment to Article 17. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I ask the Proposer's representative if he accepts this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11171	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11172	Thank you. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11173	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must confess that I've tried to get more out of the present. It's about an amendment to incentives per hectare. Under basic law, they are set at 6,000 dinars. I asked the amendment to make it an equivalent of 60 euros. Two reasons are for that. The first reason is that over time, the lowest base of 6,000 dinars can be lost to inflation and growth rates. The second reason why I did that is because I think incentives per hectare should still be something bigger and that these 60 euros and 60 euros to regress diesel fuel, or mineral fertilizer, to get 120 euros from those two items per hectare. It's equal to the 14,000 dinars that farmers had in 2011. Given the dissatisfaction with the work of citizens affected by poverty, as well as farmers and workers due to premiums and subsidies, I must say that the promotion of premiums and subsidies does not predominate agricultural producers. They receive these funds, but essentially the processing industry is being undermined, agricultural production in general, the processing industry, to be competitive at least on our own market because the surrounding countries, for example, Croatia, have three to four times the premiums and subsidies per hectare, incentives, as our country has, given the circumstances and the situation found and the possibilities for the agrarian budget to increase significantly more than it is now increased. I must say that we are basically satisfied, because we have regulated by law what has been regulated by the regulation so far. So far, it depends on the current will of the minister, whether the premiums will be per hectare, whether they will be per kilogram, whether the regressions will be as much or as much. This time, the Assembly passed the law, and it is binding on both the ministry and other bodies implementing this law. On that side, I'm satisfied. I'm not satisfied with that, as the minister is most likely not pleased either. Regardless of the increase in the agrarian budget, I must say we expected more. The point of the amendment was to increase this something and reach the sum that was reached in 2011, but then we had incentives only per hectare. We didn't have any throats, we didn't have the right to encourage cattle, pigs, cattle, etc. I think there was room for this amendment to be adopted. I'll also say that when we're paying the state rent of agricultural land, then we're counting on the equivalent of a certain amount in euro, and when I change, I'm asking for the same thing in terms of incentives, then it's said that the money is the official currency of payments, i.e. that the incentives are also set in the budget in the dinar amount. So what I predicted would not be paid in euros, but in an appropriate dinar equivalent, with a minimum amount of 60 euros, which would add up to the other half to 120 euros. Also, I welcome the part of the law relating to certain incentives for a particular kind of culture, here I am primarily referring to olives and sugars, the tail where the ministry is allowed to encourage these basics to provide appropriate incentives and premiums for appropriate agricultural cultures and thus to reroute military production to industrial plants or soybean, sunflower and sugar tails. So this is my attempt to get something more out, I have to admit it, and I have to say that the law, once again, is two, three steps ahead of what we've had so far, but of course I'm trying to get more out of it, so if it goes, it goes. I think that would be useful. I think that over time, as the assets of the agrarian budget will be increased, we will receive both premiums and subsidies at a higher level. If we were EU members, we would be getting 1.6 billion euros from the EU right now, meaning four times as much. Unfortunately, those who led us towards the EU led us only by a declarative snail step. That is why we will still wait for these European premiums and subsidies, while Croatia has nothing more to gain when it joins the EU. At this point, they stand out about 700, 750m euros for their agriculture. Given that they have tourism and have a far more developed industry, they manage to provide it, and once they enter the EU, they will provide the same funds, but from the EU budget. The EU budget is 55 billion and I think it is good for farmers in Serbia, and the moment we enter and we have full agricultural protection in the EU, we will have a 1.6 billion premium. I think agriculture and agriculture incentives and a common European agricultural policy are one of the main reasons why Serbia should join EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11174	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ljubisa Stoimirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11175	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome this concern from colleagues Risticic about the problems of our farmers and I would only like to convey the opinion of certain farmers from the Greek municipality. When we discussed this subject, someone mentioned that these premiums were relatively small and that they could be bigger. There was only one message from them. Professor, they are small, but let them be paid regularly. Now, let it be a greeting from my Greeks to all of us and you here, and I hope that the ministry and this government will meet their appeal, that the premiums will be paid regularly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11176	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Ana Novkovic, Nenad Kitanovic and Jožef Shandor. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk ambassador, Nenad Kitanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11177	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, members of the ministry, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I thought to add to this article 18, an increase in basic incentives for orchards, because it's very real. Ten days ago I held a gathering with various associations, and given that in certain fruit cultures there are investments per hectare and up to 100,000 dinars, I think it's realistic to separate warfare from fruit growing. This is not explicitly, I have insight into the difficult situation in our country, but I think it would be correct and realistic to adopt as much as possible a larger amount. In this way, we would give one serious support to all fruit farmers who are now determined to deal more seriously with fruit growing. These are all young men who would plant a hectare of up to two or three acres. It would be one way for the future of these people to be given one clear direction in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11178	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Teodora Vlahović, Gordana Komic and Srdjan Mikovic together submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11179	I thank you for virtually accepting this amendment by the minister, because other amendments that are directed towards it have been accepted, that incentives are linked not only to farmland, but to farm land which is also processed. So, sown and planted and that's good. We have submitted the same amendment to Article 18 and Article 19, in terms of land, that it should be treated land, not that land in the parlogum. I would like to welcome the fact that the amendments, which delete Article 18, Article 18, are practically accepted, as this excludes the minister's discretionary right that the minister may limit the area different from the area provided for in the law. When we talk about Articles 18 and 19, I would just point out one inconsistencies that are present, in relation to Articles 15 and 15. 26th and 27th. Article 18, which I have submitted to the amendment, is that the incentive set out in Article 1 is realized for the declared and processed areas, corresponding by culture up to a maximum of 100 hectares. The same applies to production-related incentives. In this part, incentives are related to a certain size of production, i.e. to a specific area. In milk production and milk premiums, we have premiums related to a certain quantity and beyond. Also, in the case of these lambs and tow pigs, the weight is tied to at least a certain quantity. We're not consistent with the whole law. Is it an incentive for those who are economically weak or are incentivized, as is the case with milk and those who are richer and who weigh more than ten throats? In this sense, we obviously have incentives for plant production, to bind to a certain border area, and in livestock and milk production we go to a different principle. I am merely pointing to certain inconsistencies in the law itself, as I have pointed to indeterminate consistency regarding the use of the term – Ministry and Minister. In that sense, we should work on the amendments and additions of this law one day, to be consistent from beginning to end. PRESIDENT: Member of the 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Gogić, Slavica Savic and Vladimir Marinkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11180	The Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group has submitted the same amendment to Article 18 and Article 19. Proposed law to delete bet 4. It is extremely important that you have accepted this fundamental amendment for us. By erasing the position of the 4th member, we have prevented the Minister of Agriculture from limiting the area for which it will share incentives for basic and plant production. This reduces the discretionary right of the Minister of Agriculture to reduce incentives. By adopting amendments, SVM farmers will have secure support of up to 100 hectares of agricultural land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11181	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11182	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is hereby proposed that the main incentives be 10 thousand dinars per hectare, instead of 6000 dinars per hectare per hectare per hectare per hectare for the bearer of the commercial family agricultural land, whose total registered area is less than 10 hectares. This proposal is based on both economic and social aspects. It is no doubt that the processing of depreciated possessions requires far greater engagement of machinery, human work, energy and other resources, and since the objective of direct payments, according to the legislator, is to improve the productivity of agricultural production, it is logical that the basic incentives for cost-sufficient activities are paid to a greater extent. The second course of economic justification is that there is a strong likelihood that the manufacturer that meets this condition, therefore, has less than 10 hectares of arable surface, will not be able to achieve a productively linked incentive, since the yield achieved from its plant production will not be delivered to the public warehouse, but will use it for its own purposes, for example. for livestock production. The social justification of such an amendment is seen in this way as helping the state systematically and encouraging the work of small commercial agricultural holdings, which is why this amendment applies only to natural persons and not to entrepreneurs and not to businesses. In this regard, I would like to say that I am not satisfied with the reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is why this amendment has been rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11183	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11184	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, we wanted to point out with this amendment that it was more important to have a harvest than to say a conditional sowing. Now I speak figuratively. You can sow all over Serbia, and theoretically you don't have one ton of products. In that sense, we just wanted to point out that we should also think about offerings, I have no intention of sharing us, but above all because of forest peasants, masculine, seafaring peasants who have problems with large possessions or undersized possessions. Of course, we do not insist on adopting this amendment, but our wish, given that in previous discussions, we had the Government, to say, conditionally accept that it also thinks about the contribution. We are here with the maximum surface area on which basic incentives on the surface of plant production are realized, to reduce in the next 10 years at 10 hectares and to exclude specific areas with difficult agricultural production conditions. It seems to me that, as you predominate or die milk by quality, it seems to me that we could not die by processing, but by offering. Of course we accept and think there are more important things to talk about. The explanation is correct and we think that if we want to achieve something in the next period, we need to think about those agricultural producers that don't live in Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11185	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Popović, Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milan Lapčević. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11186	In the afternoon debate, we talked about the need to even up the least milk producers with the larger ones. One of the arguments that you've presented why you don't think it should be accepted is that there's not enough money in the budget. You know, with the money you have available, a different distribution you can come up with a much more efficient solution. One of the solutions that we have proposed is that incentives related to related plant production are given up to 50 hectares above that area up to 75 hectares are 80% of the basic incentives, and up to 100 hectares to be 60% of the intended incentives, thus respecting the fact that they work on so many surfaces and on the other hand saves certain resources, because it is not right that the same incentives apply to those surfaces of 10 hectares and those of 100 hectares. On the other hand, statistically speaking, it is likely that 95% or perhaps even more of Serbia's total agricultural holdings have up to 50 hectares. In addition, between 50 and 100 hectares can probably be counted on the fingers of one hand or a row of 10, 20 to 100, compared to 250 thousand registered, probably more than 100 of us that have a 100-hectare area. Accordingly, we think that there is a need to keep an eye on and economy with each dinar and that incentives should not be valid at the same amount for all surfaces, i.e. they should be succesively reduced as the area that is being stimulated grows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11187	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 19 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11188	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't want to report by other amendments to this article, so I'm going to say within my explanation that there is no need to reduce the volume of premiums and subsidies, especially to limit the number of hectares that will be premiums. He's as selective as this, so he refers to incentives up to 100 acres. There are no more than 100 acres. I must tell you that in the EU, whose agricultural products will come here, there are no restrictions, and the premiums and subsidies are four times the size of this law. It's not just about the welfare of farmers, it's about the well-being of agricultural production, the food industry, trade and the safety of the country. So one stable agricultural policy is not only beneficial to farmers. It is also beneficial for processors and consumers who can be sure of market supply at any time, but it is also good for a country that is always safe, there are reserves because of possible military and economic pressures that, God forbid, can be repeated on our country. I expect these premiums and subsidies, as we approach the EU, to be bigger and not to be reduced, because this is how the selection is done and these incentives pay only up to 100 hectares. With this in mind, I must tell you that the average area in Serbia is about four hectares, and in the EU it is 12 hectares, although many think that the average area in the land is far higher in the EU - it is not, it is about 12 hectares and it is different from the country to the Member State. For example, there are 3.5 hectares in Cyprus, and it seems to me, in the Czech Republic, that the largest one is 67 hectares. The structure of agricultural production in Serbia now resembles the EU after enlargement. So the EU has both large and small, and medium-sized possessions, and this law is roughly the EU's common agricultural policy. With my amendment, I was going to say that the incentives up to 100 acres include pastures. In Croatia, this is the case, provided there are two hectares of large cattle or five sheep. In the current law, pastures are not covered. In the second part of the amendment, I wanted to point out that the government did not accept it because it was regulated by regulations covering the registration of agricultural holdings, which enters into those 100 hectares. So far it's been property. So far it's been a lease from a natural person and it's been a lease from the state. The lease of legal entities, of some companies that had the land, which farmers or agricultural holdings were processing, had no rights, so the measures were selective, had no incentive and had no right to rent from the church. If you rent land from the church, and the church was given back a large area, and mainly because of the lack of mechanism of renting to farmers, such land was not the subject of incentives, and thus not only did the farmers lose, but it also lost the church, and therefore the price of the lease was so reduced, in a certain way the churches suffered. That's why I wanted this amendment to specify which areas would be calculated, these hundred acres. On the other hand, I wanted for the sake of livestock and livestock and for our great natural and other opportunities to develop livestock production, and therefore organic agricultural production, since much of the pasture has not been treated with either chemical or mineral fertilisers, and for this reason I wanted the pastures to be covered by this way of premiums and subsidies. I must again underline that we have come three steps ahead of this law and that these attempts, if not now, in some future time, have been accepted by the competent Ministry of Agriculture Affairs by some of these ideas and solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11189	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Teodora Vlahović, Gordana Komic and Srdjan Mikovic together submitted the 19th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11190	First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Gordani Komic and Mrs Teodori Vlahovic, who spent a great deal of time together to implement this bill together and make an effort to fix and propose a whole series of amendments. I wish all these amendments had been passed, it would have been a better text of the law. We were able to see that a whole series of amendments that other parliamentary groups and our fellow MPs have proposed here were going towards improving the text of the law and making it better for all citizens of Serbia, and for those who produce and for those who use agricultural products. If agricultural production is adequately stimulated, the possibility of all citizens better meeting their needs appears. In particular, from this proposed amendment, we have proposed that the incentives set out in Article 1 are made available for the declared areas under the appropriate culture up to a maximum of 100 hectares, only for farmland which has been processed. The fact is that a whole series of MPs noticed that the bill did not define whether the land to be reported had to be processed, sown or planted, and all intervened in the same direction. It is good that all these amendments have been accepted to correct the text of the law. In that sense, our amendment was accepted. I must say, especially with this Article 19, that we were in a dilemma whether we should attack the same amendment and the position of the 6th of this proposed member, where it is defined that the minister is closer to prescribing what kind of plant production, which cultures and under what conditions can achieve productive incentives, the height of incentives, as well as the way in which the rights to production-related incentives can be exercised and the form of demands to achieve these incentives. It is not disputed for us that the minister should deal with, when the law is passed, by prescribing the way it is done, or, possibly, with the patterns on which incentives should be made. Exactly the question of certain conditions, which should be defined by law, that's what has been disputed with us. That remark returns and goes from member to member. In Article 15, we pointed out the same thing, and Article 15 provided that the minister was closer to prescribing the conditions. Not only is the way and the pattern required to exercise the right to a milk premium, but also the conditions. In that sense, and for this attitude of six, we were in a great dilemma whether we were simply attacking that part of the amendment on whether or not something was really worked out, or whether something was in the parlogus, but this second part. I'm going back to what should be a guideline to all of us, that when we make a bill, and especially a bill of encouragement in agriculture and rural development, this should not be valid for just one year. This should, however, take place over a period of more than one year, so that all those who organise production can be managed in a certain way and know the rules of the game. Once again, I point out that there is a certain inconsistencies in the entire text of the law, that we are somewhere related to production to a certain area, and that we are somewhere related to production over a certain amount or a certain number, for example, in this area. In that sense, I am now looking at Mr. Lapčević, and I will remain absolutely unclear as to how, for example, the production-related incentives of this article, from Article 19, and from Article 3, that this is related to the appropriate culture to a maximum of 100 hectares? It's for these poor and it's okay. With milk, only the rich have a right, and the poor have no right. In this regard, I welcome the recognition of the efforts made by Mrs Teodora Vlahovic and Mrs Gordana Comic, who together proposed this amendment and who, truth is not from word to word, by accepting amendments from some of the other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11191	Mr. Lapčević, just tell me, do you want a replica or a parliamentary group? You have every right to both. Replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11192	I would like to thank Mr. Mikovic for his comments. Here you can see one inconsistency of the law. For milk premiums, we go to the story as much production as possible and give a greater incentive for greater production. We're going to the farmland for less. We limit up to 50 acres, up to 100 acres, which we think is right, and we need to start from the smallest to the highest, and when all kinds of incentives or premiums are paid, we need to go from the lowest priorities to the highest, and somewhere where money is spent. When they get to 100 acres, if there's no money, there's nothing to do but have some consistency. Also, one kind of objection to the inconsistency of the law is also a Article 17. It is said that, for plant production, incentives can be basic and productive incentives. Under two – they encourage livestock and for dairy cows, suckler cows, breeding sheep, breeding pigs, tov bullades, etc. That's exactly what it's worked out for. Article 19 on related incentives states that the minister is closer to the regulation of which kind of plant production, of which type of culture and under which conditions can be created productively related incentives, height of incentives, method of realization, etc. We don't have a number of which of these productively bound plant productions will be stimulated. At least it had to be found in this article of the law that it would be an incentive for cherry, raspberries, plums, pears, apples, whatever. This leaves you with a discretionary right to say – we will encourage the production of soybean and sugar beet production and nothing more. We won't encourage the fruit industry at all. If the aim of the law is to be predictable for those who are engaged in agricultural production, then it had to be stated – these kinds of fruits, these types of vegetables, these types of plant production will be stimulated, and then people when they enter the production will have predictably what will be encouraged by the state. This leaves the question whether you're going to encourage something or not in what form and height.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11193	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milorad Mijatovic, Vesna Milekic and Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 19th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpard Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 19th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment, she submitted with the correction of the National MP Snezana Bogosavljevic – Boskovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11194	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, my colleagues Kasalovic and I, in front of the SPS parliamentary club, have tabled three amendments aimed at supplementing the law with incentives for production in the field of livestock. We have also proposed a range of incentives in livestock, as well as minimum amounts of the same. These amendments were accepted by the government and they became an integral part of the bill. On this occasion, I would like to thank the Government and the Resolute Ministry for their understanding and acceptance of our amendments. It means first of all correcting a long-standing injustice against this extraordinary branch of our livestock. In the previous period, no incentives for livestock were provided for in the regulations governing the issue of incentives in agriculture and rural development. Because of this, livestock was in an unequal position compared to other branches of our livestock. Without any incentive to produce with this expensive and very sensitive, and the plasma insecure over the past period a large number of good breeders had to reduce the number of farmed livestock, and some even to leave this production. This government and the resolution ministry have shown great understanding of the problems in our livestock and the willingness to accept the proposed incentives for some types of livestock farming, in line with the opportunities available, and for the parent flocks of the difficult type of chicken, parent flocks of easy-type chickens and parent turkeys. We wanted to add along with these incentives some others for whom our livestock farmers are interested and for whom we think they are truly justified and necessary, such as incentives for these chickens, incentives for the production of eggs for consumption, incentives for export support and the like. However, we understood that at this point it would not be realistic and realistic. Therefore, in the situation where we had to propose among the equally important link in the chain of production the ones that are now needed and can get incentives, we felt that they were the first and the basic link, respectively. It's a parent or parent flock. This is for a number of reasons. First of all, Serbia is a country that does not have its genetic material, but our livestock production is largely dependent on the imports of parent flocks. In addition, it is known that without good and stable parent production, there is no safe base for both the production of animal meat and the production of eggs for consumption. We can therefore conclude that the solutions contained in these amendments are realistic and for the time being the only possible. However, we must bear in mind that chicken farmers, as well as those who grow chickens for the production of eggs for consumption, have lost their incentive this time. In their work, they face a number of other problems that significantly burden the rentability of their production, such as often unfair competition on the domestic market due to presence in a significant percentage of this type of product. grey zones, then due to low export opportunities, etc. In the Government, the Resort Ministry and all of us, it's to keep in mind the problems and these livestock farmers and to do everything they can to preserve their production, but also to improve it and increase it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11195	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroslav Petkovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management submitted an amendment to the 20th The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) I ask the Proposer's representative if he accepts this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11196	I accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11197	I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 20th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic together have submitted an amendment proposing that a new title be added above members and members of 20a be added after article 20a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk emissary, Ruzica Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11198	I thank the chairman. This amendment is attached to the amendment, in fact, Article 17(2), for which we have proposed to change and to read – incentives in livestock. First of all, the ministry here suggested that incentives in livestock apply to quality dairy cows, suckler cows, breeding sheep and goats and generally to complete female throats. Our proposal was for men's throats to be held as well because without quality male throats, there is no quality other cattle. Quality breeding bulls, quality breeding rams and goats, quality breeding growth is a proposal from the DSS to subsidise, i.e. to add incentives. Why do we think this is right? Incentives for quality breeding bulls are determined by the throat at a minimum amount of 100,000 dinars per throat and the right to these incentives should be given once a year. The reason why this amendment is not accepted is that it is not accepted because the defined incentive means refer to a high-quality female throat, because the number is the same in constant decline. They'll probably be in constant decline if they don't receive male quality throats. Therefore, we believe that this is completely wrongly bypassed, and at the same time decisions are made to fund livestock or quality chickens. We don't think there's any excuse for not putting quality breeding bulls, breeding rams and goats and quality breeding growth. In previous Article 17, we suggested that instead of bee hives, bees of society bees. The hive is something that involves a wooden bowl where bees are held. It was far more linguistically correct for them to be the bees of society. Think about it and respect this amendment of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11199	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11200	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is an amendment to the incentives for quality dairy cows, which are laid down by the draft law at a minimum of 20,000 dinars. The amendment required that it be 200 euros in equivalent, per middle course, per throat. On this occasion, I want to say that the law is progress in relation to what we've had so far, but I tried to turn it into a hard currency because of the reason for inflation and the reason for the potential growth of the course, because everything in this country is mainly turning into a mid-euro rate. So I wanted the incentive for breeding cows to be converted into euro, that is, when paid in dinars to be 200 euros. The process value of premiums and subsidies in Europe per cow is two euros. For the first time, we are in a position to adopt that amendment of mine on pastures, to achieve that value that is in the EU. So if you take 20,000 dinars and you take a milk premium per cow and if that cow is high milk, you get a figure of 55,000 to 60,000 dinars per year per cow, which is equivalent from 500 to 550 euros a day, which is 1.5 euros per cow's throat per day. So in Europe, the average is about two euros. We're very close to reaching that average. That the amendment that I have given in relation to the predominant pastures has been adopted and, if this is added, incentives that go by hectare, one who deals with livestock may count on him to exceed 1.5 euros per head, or one cow. This is an opportunity for the development of livestock and the opportunity for a certain number of people who have lost their jobs in cities and who have some family holdings with the credit support of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is also provided for by this law in the rural development work, to get conditions for those who are from lustrated factories somewhere in the interior, if they want to deal with livestock, to return to their hearths, with credit support, along with these premiums and incentives, to the hearths of their fathers and to what they cannot earn in the crowded, industrial, dead cities, to do so in the countryside and to contribute to the life of villages. The country we found was completely devastated, and in particular these are rural areas. When I hear so far the government calling over the peasants, I can't forget that a large number of villages have been turned into deserts. Instead of rural tourism, we could be engaged in desert tourism in certain parts of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11201	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11202	Thank you. This amendment proposes that instead of 20,000 dinars, as proposed by the law, as an incentive for quality dairy cows, all those who have such cows get 25,000 dinars, regardless of the number of throats entered in the register. The reasons for the government, which we have received, which is why this amendment is not accepted – that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the draft law prescribes a minimum amount of incentives for quality dairy cows, which can be increased in the coming years depending on the budget resources available. Minister, we know this is a minimum amount, but we're asking that the minimum amount instead of 20,000 be 25,000 and that's a minimum amount to speed up livestock production. That's the purpose of our amendment. We know that you've suggested a minimum of 20,000 and if there's more resources, it's more, but the LDP proposes it to be 25,000. The amendment you submitted for this year is not the member, but that we will have 5% of the funding for agriculture. This was defined differently by the Law on the Republic of Serbia's budget, rather than by 1 January of next year. In the principle debate, I said I'm sorry you did it, because four billion dollars will have less than a budget rebalance. If we want to speed up livestock production, we believe that the government should have accepted this amendment and increased the amount of 20,000 to 25,000 dinars, which is not some means that would burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11203	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11204	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, is scheduled to make up for 20,000 dinars per throat. I suggested that this provision be amended and that 25,000 dinars be added to those who have up to 100 cows, thinking that this way we would hit all those who have less than 100 and who are somewhere on the road to becoming serious producers, that is, seriously deal with agricultural production. I think that way we're going to make some difference and give an additional incentive, which in dinars isn't big, it's not a big difference, but I think that's what small producers were counting on when they started this year. I think they should be able to do that. They're not big yet, and they haven't gone beyond the dilemma in which they're moving, but I think with this extra boost of 25,000 per head for manufacturers up to 100 throats, there could be a significant thing for all of them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11205	Anyone else want a word? The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11206	And in this amendment, just so the farmers know what this is about, I asked for the suckler cows instead of 20,000 dinars to be equivalent to 200 euros per throat. For the same reasons, as before, that the growth rate does not reflect minimal incentives on breast-feeding cows' throat. The number of throats is falling and I think in response to these amendments and in response to the government, or the resolution ministry, it says that in the coming years these funds will be increased, so they will not be nailed to this base of 20,000 dinars. The government's argument is acceptable to me, but I tried to tie this to the euro's countervalue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11207	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 23 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11208	It's an incentive for quality breeding sheep and goats. They are determined at a minimum of 4,000. I tried to tie the bottom base to 40 euros per throat. I'm satisfied with that because so far these incentives, as far as I know, didn't exist at all, but I have tried to tie it to, as we peasants say, a solid currency, so that that bottom base is not affected by inflation or growth in course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11209	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11210	Your Honor, can you answer one question for me? Since you're asking us here to believe some things for you, and we in LDP can say that we can try to take your word for it, although a lot of things in this law should just be believed, like. that you will define by regulation that there will be a register on the site of all those who have received incentive funds. What does this argument of the government mean why we haven't been adopted this amendment? With this amendment, we ask that this incentive be at each throat, no matter how many throats the household has to do with this type of production, and you tell us here that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the member of this law already defines that the incentive is given by the throat. Does this mean that it will apply to each throat, even if you have five goats, three sheep, or you, in accordance with Article 20, will use this attitude 3 that says that the minister is closer to enforcing the right to encourage livestock. You have, then, if we look closely at attitude 3, the right to say that the minimum number of throats is for some incentive so much and so much. Our amendment is quite clear, where we ask that the incentive applies, no matter how many goats you have, the sheep, and Article 24 is tied to the sows, so it's literally the same. For that reason, please explain to me the government's explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11211	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11212	Mrs. Gerov, I don't know what to explain. What you wrote in the amendment, it says here in the article. You are looking for a high-quality breeding throat, it says – on the throat. He writes in the first part – incentives for quality breeding sheep and goats, then in Article 24. – incentives for quality breeders, what you are looking for – on the throat, on the throat, in Article 23 and Article 24. What you wrote, it says, only a line of words isn't like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11213	Thank you. Mrs. Gerov, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11214	Minister, that's what it says on the throat, but we're looking at every throat. I ask you nicely: does this mean that if a man has only one sheep, will he receive encouragement? Just answer me that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11215	Thank you. Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11216	Yeah, he'll get it. If he has a high-quality breeding throat, he'll get one if he does.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11217	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MPs Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new title be added to the members and members of the 23rd article after article 23a. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11218	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this part of the session, or the law, we're dealing with the kind of incentives in cattle farming and what we've submitted the amendment here, actually, we wanted to intervene on this 24, so we put it in front of it, that's 23a, referring to porking. It is good, as far as we from the DSS are concerned, that the promotion measures in livestock farming are and how well regulated, because they should encourage livestock production which, experts say, is pretty much on the extremity and that I also quote experts – practically disrupted permanently and that it will be very difficult to start. That's why we've made so many amendments here, and that's why we insist so much on some, such as the one relating to milk subsidies. What we don't understand is I'm going to try to explain in a few sentences, so I'm going to ask you, Mr. Minister, to try to hear it a little bit, to get an answer, because you can see that we're putting up with the constant amendments in that direction, and we're not getting the answer. We're probably not following something right. Modern livestock production requires genetic quality throats, males and females, compared to, say in livestock, 1:10 and with some modern, state-of-the-art breeding technology, this can result in this production being quality and large. The formation of quality traps is one of the most important preconditions for achieving good results that can be competitors on the market, and we will have a problem, I have already pointed out, and these have been pointed out by my DSS colleagues several times, with competitiveness when we open up to the EU, that is what we have commented on and when the SAA is signed. Now, what we warned at the time came, and we're going to get our farmers, our peasants, as we say, to bankruptcy. There are a few questions here, I am now returning to this amendment, which is related to this, and this is the first question that has also been raised today, it is a question of veterinary service, their status, their jurisdiction, practically the previous Veterinary Law, that this service has come to the conclusion that it is some kind of ficus that appears from time to time in the hay, then it is moving away, the question of the programme of measures and especially the payment of this programme, because since October of last year nothing has been paid and the question is how long the veterinary service can do the measure, and if we want to be competitive with the European market, we have to be very rigorous. The second question is the transport of breeding animals, which takes place in our market in a completely stellar and completely disorganised way. There is indeed great damage to various parts and great consequences. The third question is the question of the procurement of fertilising material that requires really great help from experts. There's very few experts asking, and it happens that people don't even know where to buy or how to buy. What's good, what I have to point out, is that the Institute for the Application of Science in Agriculture has made a single national stock exchange, that's good, but I'm asking you, just for those very reasons, to answer us, which is why we're being funded here, and the state is only helping to get the females, and the question of the male farmers remains completely uncovered by the subsidies of the state. Which is why there's this clear ratio of 1:10 in favour of females, but I don't see here that in any place, when it comes to cows, sheep, goats, pigs, no one mentions that they're going to subsidize some quality male. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11219	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11220	You mentioned the first question of finance, only here to answer a few sentences. I don't want to lamentate and complain about what's happened and what's happened, you know that very well. I can tell you that what I consider to be one of the successes of this ministry is that we have settled the full debts for 2011 and, as I told you, about 99.6% of the commitments made in 2012, all of what was in accordance with the procedure, with the documentation. I don't know what this is about the vet, I don't know what happened, that's what Miss Batic asked me, so I'm going to have a safe answer these days, but we're trying to make such a dynamic in 2013 that what was in some amendments, that certain payment deadlines are given, that we're doing exactly that, in accordance with the needs of the agricultural producers, that in this way we have the dynamics of paying all year round. As far as your amendment is concerned, we've had more solutions, but we've decided on this, as it says in the law, which is to encourage only high-quality female throats because they are in constant decline and we think that we're going to increase these incentives in a significant way in the next period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11221	Thank you. Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11222	Thank you. Mr. Minister, of course, I've been following what's been happening since the moment this government was created and especially what's going on in your ministry. I know about the big debts, the delays, the dynamics, how you solved the issue of payout and everything, but I also understood that this law was one of the measures for introducing order, finally, into one area that was quite freely understood. That's how we understand him from the DSS. But there will be no increase in livestock production if you just finance, or subsidize female throats. You'll see, it won't. We talked to the experts, they say otherwise. In Serbia, for example, you only have 100 breeding bulls. We of the DSS have submitted an amendment that the state subsidizes every single one, every breeding bull with 100,000 dinars a year, and then you will have the opportunity to have both males and females on one side. This is how I'm afraid you'll get to close the circuit once, or we'll get to importing seeds, which is quite expensive and uncertain. So ask your veterinarians under what conditions you have to calf cows and everything else. C-sections are done where everything is normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11223	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11224	Ladies and gentlemen, purely for viewers, it's about incentives for high-quality sows and heights set out in the bill of law that are 4,000 dinars. I wanted to supplement that, and I listed the equivalent of 40 euros per infertile throat. The reason for that is the reason I've already mentioned it. It's usually the obligation of farmers to withdraw loans, and in this branch of livestock farming, it's like a tsunami has passed. So it was most imported and the most throats were killed. I don't know how much left. And today it's being imported. The found state is a real fiasco. Therefore, I think that for all the praise that the government, or the ministry, has provided for this bill to encourage breeding feeds, that is to say to be 4,000 dinars per throat. I wanted it to be 40 euros in anti-indarian value. The government defends that funds are planned in dinars in the budget, but when it charges the rent from farmers then they don't mind it being in the middle of the euro. They're double standards. However, that law was the 2007 law. So, these double standards on payments and payments, when it comes to payment, it is at a medium rate of the euro, and when it comes to payment, then the funds in the budget are planned in dinar equivalent and it is impossible to take a minimum of dinar equivalent, in this case 40 euros. Anyway, I just wanted to fix it. For viewers to know, the breeders under the bill have 4,000 dinars per throat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11225	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the title above Articles 25 and 25 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11226	Thank you. I'll just have a quick word with this member. So, why Article 25? Because we have one problem in life, and this is the problem of buying out the hero and the lack of quality junk meat on our market. The fact is, we miss that kind of production. But we have another fact, and that's that our buyers, whatever they are, charge this amount of incentives immediately at their ransom price, so then we have a problem with how much it actually costs when our farmer who manufactures this June gives up. So I felt that this should be replaced, in fact, to encourage those who increase the parent’s or their own trap and who implemented the protection programme implemented by the competent veterinary institution, so that this was practically an incentive for the hijacked calf. I've seen what's really going on in my explanation, so this can wait a little longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11227	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, did you want to talk about this amendment? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11228	Thank you. I would support my colleague's amendment, only that this amendment added, since he wrote that the incentive for the kidnapped body is determined at a minimum amount of 10,000 dinar per awning calf, the incentive from Article 1 of this article is realized if the calf is taken in its own path for which the protection and records programme has been implemented by the competent veterinary institution, that it stands here: "or is purchased by such a person, or by the agricultural land in which the body has been taken." So, in that case, I would support this amendment, given that we have a very negative experience with breeding heifers that were allegedly imported from Western Europe, and were actually dragged somewhere from Argentina a year ago. It's about herds that count dozens of throats and after receiving premiums and subsidies so imported herds went straight to slaughter. I would really support this amendment and the solution is very good, and the ministry should think about it, since it's not about the cows that we have to introduce because that number of throats is constantly falling, but about the bodies and I think that the ministry should think about this one solution in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11229	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic, Nenad Kitanovic, Jožef Shandor and Ana Novkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a national emissary Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11230	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, has submitted an amendment to Article 25 to add behind the words "the slaughterhouse" the words "to the entrepreneur or the legal person for the transport or processing of meat". When we submitted this amendment, we did so with a view to creating as many producers as possible to sell in one system way what they produce. I won't answer, since we have a similar amendment to Article 26 and Article 27, so I'm gonna take this opportunity to explain everything at once.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11231	We have to stick to the Rules of Procedure. So you can only talk about this amendment, and later if you want, I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11232	Okay. Since registered slaughterhouses are not equally available to all manufacturers, and since there have really been problems on the ground so far, because this has been regulated in the previous period through the Regulations, when it comes to the very handover of the products, I think it would be a good idea to think again about how to bring into the system all those who can tie, untie and buy that cattle, because butchers, for example, have an obligation to slaughter in slaughterhouses. I also think that maybe on that side you could step up control and that it would be much better if the manufacturers sold their hero to even butchers or buyers, and that it would all be tied up somewhere in the system, than maybe bring them in tomorrow, to the point that they wouldn't exercise their right to incentives, and sell the hero elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11233	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Minister Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11234	There are more amendments to this topic. We've been thinking, and we've been going over a little bit of regulation, what there is, what we have here, what solutions we have here, and it's very difficult to achieve complete control. It even seems to me that Mr. Lapcevic was talking about that gray market, how big and large the market is. Under the current conditions, animal movements, especially pigs, cannot be monitored, so we will see that through the rulebook, with consent, that we try to solve this problem with agreement with cattle associations, because I know it's big. It's completely impractical for someone who has one or two cattle to drag into a certain territory there, to turn him in, to make it happen. This is much more rational, but we're going to look through the rulebook to sort that area out, try to control it in some way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11235	Thank you. The word is Jelena Travar-Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11236	I'd just like to thank the minister and appeal once again to make sure that everything clear through the rulebook. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11237	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11238	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support this amendment, given that every fifth agricultural producer drives his June directly to the slaughterhouse. So here, the amendment promoter suggested that the right to grant, i.e. the incentives of 10,000 dinars per throat, also have producers who do so through the buyer. So, I agree that there is a gray market, but given that we have amended the relevant tax laws, tax inspectors now need to control both this wild ransom and the place to tax anything that is illegally traded, or anyone who deals with illegal traffic. On the other hand, if there is a solution left in the law, that incentives are paid only for the throat that has been handed over to the slaughterhouse, there will be a big problem. So, in most villages, only buyers work. We don't have any slaughterhouses within a 50-mile radius. So, if I were to drive 50 kilometers in June to achieve an incentive of 10,000 dinars, it's almost inexhaustible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11239	Thank you. Minister Knezevic wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11240	We leave the possibility just like that. We say - handed over to the slaughterhouse, we don't say how, so we can make it right and try to regulate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11241	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11242	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, respected associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment is extremely important, especially for cattlemen. We have submitted an amendment to Article 25 of the Law, which regulates incentives, or premiums in livestock. Otherwise, the 25th and 27th members of the bill are connected, as both relate to the tov – one to the pig and the other to the hero. We, SVM MPs, suggest that cattlemen can achieve incentives even in cases where they have not delivered goods directly to the slaughterhouses, but have done so through the redeemers, just as we have just heard. So, so far, it's been a huge problem that a number of manufacturers don't get a grant for that hero and for that pig because they can't hand over the goods directly to the slaughterhouses. This problem is most affected by small and medium-sized agricultural producers. According to the proposal for a law, incentives shall be made if the seal throat is intended for meat production to be handed over to the slaughterhouse or is intended for export. We suggest that cattlemen can achieve incentives even in those cases where they have not handed over the goods directly to the slaughterhouses, but have done so through the redeemers. In practice, the buyers buy cattle from the agricultural producer, so they hand the goods directly to the slaughterhouses, so they get incentives for the fat throat, not the producer who kept the cattle. It's a huge problem, in the villages of Vojvodina, and I'm safe in Serbia as well. I hope, Mr. Minister, you've heard of this problem and talked about it a little while ago. Of course, we suggest that you give incentives only in those cases where the cattle over the ransomer actually end up in a slaughterhouse. I was interested in your position on this matter. You just gave an answer about this problem. As I said in the principle debate, we in SVM consider ourselves to be a constructive opposition, so we have therefore constructively approached this bill. I also said that the SVM parliamentary group, depending on whether we will be accepted and the most important amendments, will decide whether we will support this law. You've accepted the key amendments, Mr. Minister, which is extremely important. Our suggestions that were most important have been appreciated. This amendment of ours, unfortunately, has not been adopted, but you have just given an adequate answer. I urge you once again, Mr. Minister, to ask the cattlemen, ask their organizations, and solve this problem together through the rules. Mr. Minister, it is in our best interest that as many cattlemen as possible receive a premium, not that the buyers who buy the cattle first receive the premiums, so they turn it over to their own name and make the premium. We believe, Mr. Minister, that together we should build trust between the Ministry of Agriculture and agricultural producers. By passing this law, we believe that you are on a good path and therefore the SVM parliamentary group in the voting day will support this proposal for a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11243	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11244	Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the viewers, the proposal for a law on incentive for these lambs has established a minimum amount of 1,000 dinars. Here I calculated it a little bit more and turned it into an equivalent of 10 euros per middle rate. I've already mentioned the reasons. It's the same dilemma about whether it's intended for export and handed over to the slaughterhouse. So these lambs exercise the right to incentives, and the dilemma is with the redeemer whether they will be able to issue appropriate certificates. So, most likely, the condition for the exercise of this right will be the confirmation of the slaughterhouse that it has been taken over, that the peasants have handed it over, and I would prefer that the term "sales" was used. So, for viewers to know, the premiums for these lambs are at a minimum of 1,000 dinars, and I asked for 10 euros. We got 1,000 dinars. That's a start. I guess we'll increase it over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11245	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11246	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. We have here in Article 26, paragraph 1, after the word "jags" added the words "and the goat". Our wish was to introduce this category because, here, we have heard that we have accepted the livestock, and otherwise the goats are grown in the most remote regions and in the areas with particularly difficult conditions. We got a reason here that there's not enough money in the budget. We're assuming this wouldn't be a big budget burden, considering their numbers aren't that big. I hope we don't get into a situation where we hide them in the bathrooms, like 60 years ago, to grow into a goat and a goat and hope they won't find the wolf before the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11247	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11248	Ladies and gentlemen, I will support this amendment, given that this is no cost to the budget. So, the number of goats handed over to the slaughterhouses or exported so far has been very minimal, but it can, given possible co-operation with the eastern countries, with the Middle East countries, be very significant in the future. So this year, when we've already established the budget, these funds will be negligible, but by introducing 1,000 dinar subsidies per throat, it can be significant, given possible co-operation with the East, where this kind of goods, or this kind of livestock, can also pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11249	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Joseph Shandor and Ana Novkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word of the messenger of the people is Joseph Chandor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11250	Madam Chairman, dear colleagues from the Ministry, I'd like to say a few words about this amendment we've given. This is related to the recent amendment to Art. 25, 26 and 27. Again, it is the slaughterhouse, or way of handing cattle over to the slaughterhouses. I understand the minister, and I don't want to compromise, and all I want to do is turn my attention to him one more time, how important that is. Namely, I've been working really 20 years in cooperative, a large number of producers through cooperatives handing over their customers, whether they're cows, whether they're pigs. A large number of cooperatives still today have a service load system, four, five, six thousand piglets outside of the peasants through cooperatives. So if we don't regulate the rules the right way, then the villagers will have a problem. Through cooperatives, they come true and it's possible to track whose goods it is. I understand the fear of some buyers who may be working on black, but there is a solution to that, we have inspection organs and the possibility of checking it out. On this account, I'd say something else to limit the number of minimum ten pieces of whether a pig, whether or not toned lambs. I think we're making a mistake here, too. Whether we're talking about the free purchase of cattle, pigs or, for example, service cargo, it happens that a man reports ten pieces, but on the day he surrenders, when he has to surrender, two pieces don't meet the conditions and he's got 20 pieces of pigs, he gives up only eight, because the rest aren't in that weight that fits. Practically whoever's in the system won't be able to make it because he's only given up eight, and he's got a 20-piece contract. I don't want to solve it here right now, but I want to draw your attention to the fact that when you work out this rule, you really call us, not only the associations and associations of farmers, cattlemen, but the associations of cooperatives, in order to remove this problem with common forces. Because if it stays this way, regardless of the good intentions of the law I welcome, I'm afraid that part of the manufacturer and most of the manufacturer will do damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11251	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic and Nenad Kitanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 27 of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment, with correction, is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11252	Ladies and gentlemen, it's about incentives for that pig that have been identified at a minimum of 1,000 dinars. This is where I predicted 10 euros per middle rate per throat for reasons I have already cited several times. It's some kind of minimum. I'm happy with this because this is the first time I've known to be an incentive in your pig. Pigs can make pig's money and pig's destruction. Over the last ten years, pig growers have failed more than they have earned, and imports have been the largest. The only position I have with regard to the position of the 3rd member, the incentive set out in Item 1 of this article is achieved once for the duration of the load, and that is after the completion of the load by at least five throats in the tou whose average body weight is more than 90 kilograms per throat. I advise manufacturers to join in teaching pigs, to join in and that those with two throats join in with those who have three, so that they can achieve this incentive together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11253	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Joseph Shandor and Ana Novkovic, the government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) In words there is a National MP, Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11254	Thank you. As colleagues have said about the previous amendments, we have submitted these amendments to protect, in fact, those original, real producers. We've received assurance from the minister that the rules will be passed. We believe that's how it's gonna be. We invite him once again to bring the rulebook in collaboration with the manufacturer. We understand their, to say the least, concern and the desire to prevent labour in the gray market in the field of agriculture, and we in the U.S.S. are precisely about the fact that this gray market is effectively eliminated, that the money from subsidies is not obtained by resellers, but by the real producers. We hope that the rule that these producers and cattlemen bring will be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11255	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Jelena Travar Miljevic and Nenad Kitanovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk emissary Jelena Travar Miljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11256	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I will give this opportunity aside from the predetermined argument that only cattle are handed over to the slaughterhouses, to appeal to you once again to consider whether it is at least ten throats when it comes to pigs the measure to be used. My colleague, Joseph Shandor, has just explained it the following way. Although someone is registered, even though someone reports that they will be ten or twenty can happen to him on the very day of reception that, say, ten throats do not meet the conditions. That's why he's falling out, let's call, out of this framework that gives him the opportunity to get his own incentives. Also, I don't want to abuse small producers, but I think they should be paid attention, because there are a lot of households in the villages that can't suddenly deliver ten pigs. Or, what happens if the slaughterhouses themselves say they can't receive from so many producers that number of pigs on the same day. I think you should go through the rulebook the same way if you can't find a possible option or a solution, or to extend that time limit, that it doesn't have to be in one day. To define that it can be from one load and leave space. I also think it might be good to start this number down to at least five. I thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11257	Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ( b) The word of the messenger of the people is Joseph Shandor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11258	I apologize for looking for the word again in a few minutes, but in the meantime, I thought of something very important, and it's about this. Understanding everything that this law intends to do, understanding a ten-piece limit, the devil did not give me peace, so for Saturday and Sunday, I gave myself the task of looking over the Internet and over the phone, with co-operation colleagues in Hungary as they apply EU measures in this case. You're right. There are ten-piece clauses in Hungary and the EU, but for indigenous species, for example. A pig. So, there are no restrictions on ordinary tow pigs, and I can teach without a problem. In indigenous varieties where there's a small number, you have to hand over so much, otherwise we don't care about production, so in that sense it's regulated. I suggest, again, I say, we will again support this law regardless of some things that we think are wrong, but I do ask Mr. Minister to sit down with both the cooperatives and the farmers' associations and to take a very good look at it. I think there are solutions and there's a very simple solution. You were out a little while ago, so just to be clear, a colleague may not have responded very well. I set an example for the cooperative. So, until yesterday I worked in the company, we don't, but the other cooperative next to us and today is doing a service to the pig, contracts 50 pieces, 40 pieces, the peasant brings out the pig, on the registered date he reports 20 pieces, but on February 29th, there's no weight of 105 kilograms, but the average is 80. The ransom will be returned to him, 13 pieces and only seven will be taken over. A man is under control of both veterinarians and cells and agricultural services, professional services and cooperatives, however, because a few pieces of pigs failed, he may lose his right. I mean, this isn't about classic buyers. I don't want to bring it up right now, we know those black-and-black buyers, but it's not the subject of conversation today. I'd really like to protect those people who are right and honest somehow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11259	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 28 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11260	Ladies and gentlemen, this is about bee hive incentives. In the draft law, the incentives to be achieved are at a minimum amount of 500 dinars. I wanted five euros -- we got 500 dinars, which is, for starters, satisfactory. Bees are very important for agricultural production for pollination. So, in the production of sunflowers, etc. They are not only relevant for the production and export of honey, but also for the fertilisation of other plant species. So I welcome this measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11261	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Snezana Bogosavljevic-Boskovic and Zoran Kasalovic together have submitted an amendment proposing that a new title be added above members and Article 28a be added after Article 28. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have tabled an amendment proposing that a new title be added above members and Article 28a be added after Article 28. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a minister, Goran Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11262	We accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11263	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ana Novkovic, Nenad Kitanovic and Jožef Shandor. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) He has the word Nenad Kitanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11264	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, this amendment wanted to introduce practices in the protection of plants, not to speculate with any companies and any names in the preparations, but should be defined according to organic and healthier production. Whether it's in fruits, vegetables, warfare, it's completely irrelevant. It is necessary to give a regression and advantage to these preparations, to people who are safe and thus help them to realize the production of healthy food. So this amendment does not apply to organic production, but to commercial production in fruits, vegetables and warfare. We have a lot of problems about the use of various products. Unfortunately, teams on the ground, at least in southern Serbia, as far as agricultural-professional services and municipal agriculture administrations are concerned, have not done much to educate these people and fellow producers always buy what is cheapest. Unfortunately, these preparations are also toxic, remain in these products, and when we hand over our goods, whether it's fruit or vegetables, refrigerators have repeatedly faced major problems and returned our goods from the EU. With this amendment, I think we'd be of great use to all those people who advocate the production of healthier food, and give one wind in the back that other colleagues who haven't worked so far to learn much about plant protection reach for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11265	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted to Article 29 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11266	Thank you. For viewers, it is a regression for fuel or fertilizer or seed, which is paid minimally for the total amount in value, I wanted 60 euros in dinar equivalent, and in the bill or in the law when it is adopted it will be 6,000 dinars per hectare, so that in plant production, along with those 6,000 dinars of basic and these 6,000 dinars of regress for fuel, fertilizer or seed, it will amount to 12,000 dinars. Perhaps I would like it more, but given the first year, these are minimal funds. So I can be increased. If we can all manage to make the agrarian budget bigger next year, the funds will grow. In a certain way, I would use the opportunity to ask the minister what we're going to do with the Law on Confirmation of the Genetic Resources Contract, given that our species, what I've already said, Article 12-1, 12-2, are not yet protected? Are we going to do something to at least our seed houses and fruit producers get time and at least protect their seeds and other species? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11267	Thank you. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11268	Thank you. Col. Janko Veselinović submitted an amendment to Article 30, which reads: "Right to use credit support has legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons – bearers of the commercial family agricultural land which are engaged in rural tourism business and which are registered in the Register. "How much and how much the law on incentives and rural development actually deals with rural tourism or agro-tourism, there were also words in the principle debate and I would like to have success in defending the amendments that my colleague Janko Vesenovic has submitted, for at least three reasons. The first is that it is necessary to give a very clear explanation of what rural economic development measures mean. Does this mean improving the quality of the environment in which we live in areas called rural areas or rural areas? Does this mean general places, as does the economic development of the general place, or does this law involve specific measures, if it does not encourage as in cases of plant and animal cultures that we have had the opportunity to talk about so far, and then in credit support or in subsidising interest, how did we accept by amendment of SVM MPs? So, what exactly does it mean, I think it's very important that we don't have any doubts about what rural development really means in this law? Why do we find that important? Because in general, the planetary economy, at least this developed world or the global north at the expense of the global South and the unfair distribution of everything, all resources between developed countries and underdeveloped work or developing countries is such that the developed economies practically in their domestic gross product have the advantage of services. Around 260 to 300 million people in tourism are employed worldwide. Of the 100 employees in France, six live from tourism, in Switzerland nine, in Spain 11, in Greece 12, in Austria 15, with the four of us. The remarks that these are countries where it is not only rural tourism, but coastal countries, mountainous countries, are all standing, but if we see that the chance to develop a village or rural areas in Serbia is rural tourism or agro-tourism within rural development, then it should be clearly written in this law, even through an amendment submitted by counterpart Janko Veselinovic. Generally, this service or economy branch participates in our gross domestic product with 1%, while participating in the EU with 4%. We understand that we have some kind of unmistakable consent, that we would like to see the development of agro-tourism, that we would like to have incentives both by the state and that we have in the strategy a clear message that we want to develop agro-tourism. This amendment, whether adopted or not, is hopefully a good start for dialogue, which we will have in the future, about why agrotourism is good. For at least two reasons. The first is that every tourism, including this, is a network thing. So, if you want to develop a tourist offer of some rural areas, it includes and contains infrastructure of each type, from asphalt via waterway to internet coverage. So, it involves the multiplicity of its network development and what is personal to me, when we discussed the amendment, which Janko Veseinović submitted to me, which is personally, terribly important to me, means space for women in the country, to participate in the entrepreneurial or cooperative or in whatever form, legal form in the acquisition and not only the development or participation in the development of the rural community, but also in the isolation of themselves. Good examples when women participate in development and incentives, in fact, in sharing energy that it is possible to develop rural tourism, you have all over Serbia, wherever you want, regardless of whether it is Vojvodina, where you have the Associations of Agricultural Women, who work very hard to provide potentials in their local community, to upgrade what they have as a source, if there were agritourism and in any part of western, eastern and southern Serbia. The amendment implies that we make a clear distinction between the measures involved in improving the rural economy, whether they relate to rural tourism or not, or refer, I repeat, to incentives that are being implemented to improve the quality of life in rural areas. Perhaps this is unusual, to be with everyone in the Law dealing with rural development, but like all other things that were accepted during the debate, I hope the minister will really consider the benefit of his own ministry. If you want, what is the idea or the result of the ruling coalition, which belongs to, is that it is clearly and without any doubt said whether or not there is no legal framework in this law and economic measures to improve agrotourism. Finally, for all those who look at us, some will be directly interested, since there will be those to whom the law will directly apply, so those who produce and who will compete or by nature things will continue to be encouraged in agriculture for different kinds of cultures. On this case, whether or not to include rural tourism in this legal framework, or to introduce economic measures by enabling credit incentives, I would like to remind myself of what money we are actually talking about, related to my request to clarify the content of the register of incentives. The money we're talking about is the sums collected from the tax revenues of all Serbian citizens. There is no dispute here, that we are talking about how much of this money, collected from everyone, by all accounts, should be available to those who are involved in agricultural production, and who are different by their own group, from very small and small households and natural persons, to quite large, influential and strong legal persons. If we are already talking about this money, which is being collected from all of us, so it should be a clear register of incentives, because it is common, public, tax money, then this is the first opportunity to not only speak in nice words and in habits, sweet stereotypes, so that it would be great if Serbia had developed agrotourism like Austria or Slovenia, but rather with a really concrete decision on credit support for legal and physical persons we respond to the support of the amendment submitted by counterpart Janko Veseinovic. This does not necessarily mean that we will have a very clear reason for the explosive species, but it can mean that we have gone from sweet words and stereotypes to how nice it would be if Serbia had more income than rural tourism to any work. We will not only do this to people who live in the country, and we will not just make an increase in GDP if we encourage agrotourism with these measures and this law. I repeat, as far as I'm concerned, we're going to make one of the key social groups in the country, social groups on which very small holdings and households rest. So we'll make women in the country, because agritourism is one of the good odds for them and for increasing the quality of life in the local community they work in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11269	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11270	Just one explanation, a few sentences. We have defined rural development as a set of measures, which contribute to improving the quality of life of people living in rural areas, and we have this in Article 2 by accepting this amendment by Mr. Veselinović, to significantly narrow down the area. We would practically rule out all those entities that don't deal with rural tourism, which is not the purpose of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11271	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11272	The prime minister's explanation would stand firm, like a rock, if the amendment to the contents had been deleted, but it wasn't. Therefore, attitude 1 remains, and the amendment only proposes to add a new position 2 which, I repeat, is that the right to use credit support also has legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons, holders of commercial, family agricultural land which are engaged in rural tourism and which are registered in the register. So we're not erasing the first position, but we're adding and I'm going to repeat, part of the argument that obviously I wasn't convincing enough in my first address, and that's the first time we're going to bring rural tourism, we're going to bring argo tourism into some legal framework. Some kind of economical measure. Since we are going to wait for the rules to be passed anyway, it is possible that there will be no regulations during this year or it will not be possible to provide in detail the credit support of these legal entities, entrepreneurs and individuals or perhaps future cooperatives in agrotourism, but we will make an important first step. It will be written in your results, but the benefit is common. That's why we think it's a good idea for you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11273	The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11274	Since Mr. Vesenović also spoke about it in the part where we talked about the law in principle, I answered him, and I can answer you now, we have Article 37(2) where it is said – improving economic activities in the country with the support of not agricultural activities. Rural tourism is also involved, and I think it was not economical that we have been developing everything here right now, but there is a clear member where it is said to support not agricultural activities, where rural tourism is included.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11275	The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11276	Thank you. I also mentioned a principled debate. The explanation is why we changed and introduced incentives for fish or livestock production with amendments. It's all agriculture, but we did accept amendments relating to special and special cultures in agriculture, in this case what I mentioned. So I understand that it does not want to accept the amendment, but I cannot give up that there is common sense among all of us who will act the same as when the proposed extension of the list to special cultures such as livestock or fish is proposed. Because as long as it doesn't say "non-agricultural" that it's rural tourism, we're not gonna take that first step. If you don't want it to be the amendment of Janko Veselinović, I totally understand, absolutely understand, but then agree with the Committee or any other way, but let's introduce this agrotourism as a speciality into the law. Thank you for the explanations and I will remind you, as in the case of an explanation of the public register, of the word given, that rural tourism, or agrotourism, means unethical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11277	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11278	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, after such a wonderful presentation by my colleague Gordana Komic, I will just add a few things that are not clear to me in the government's explanation, as the amendment is absolutely clear. He says a new position 2 is added to this amendment to Article 30. - the right to use credit support has legal persons, entrepreneurs and natural persons, holders of commercial agricultural land which deal with rural tourism and which are registered in the register. Why is this important? It is important that the citizens of Serbia know, for a simple reason 43.60% is the participation of the rural population in Serbia. When we talk about rural areas, it should be known that in Austria the average population per km is 400 square miles, and in the area where I come from, in eastern Serbia is 25 inhabitants per km square. How are we gonna keep these people in these areas? How are we gonna stop the population from emigrating? It should be noted that compared to the last census, which was in 2002, the number of people in eastern and southern Serbia was reduced by 11.5%. This means that in the next 90 years, the population will practically disappear from the area. It is very important that in such a law, which is a system law, one position in Article 30 is adopted for a simple reason to define the means and incentives that will enable people who are engaged in not only agricultural production but also in wood industry and rural tourism to survive in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11279	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic. The time of your parliamentary group is four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11280	Thank you. The amendment to Article 31, which was submitted by counterpart Janko Veselinovic, reads that Article 31 is changed and read – the maximum amount of all incentives, except on the basis of credit support, cannot be more than 10 million dinars for the entrepreneur and the physical face of the holder of the commercial family agricultural land and 20 million dinars for legal persons. This amendment is inevitable when you make a number of amendments to which you follow the amendment of the law, so you introduce the right, and then you have to say what the right means. Since we have heard the argument that in the non-agricultural activity of the agrotourism account, then here is now, since the day has passed, I am announcing a parliamentary question to be asked at the end of this calendar year – what is the amount of the total incentives given in agrotourism, which are given in the non-agricultural part? It's an obligation now announced by the minister, that he knows he'll be questioned and that we'll see him here in a few months and then analyze maybe what if we were an amendment that defines clearly what rural tourism has adopted and what we have is that he hasn't adopted. We have a tendency, regardless of who the political party belongs to and what it stands for in terms of ideology, we have a common tendency to delay jobs that could only be done because we didn't think of doing them ourselves. By mentioning again women who do very much in rural households, and absolutely free of charge, and do not ask for any incentives, because they know that if they do not do their job, there is no one else to come to do their job, in this same view of things I repeat my deep conviction that the adoption of amendments that would fully define what it is to develop agrotourism and define possible amounts for natural persons, i.e. legal persons, make many good places in Serbia, where there is already the beginning of agritourism, and of course, to sow good seeds of this kind of development in parts of Serbia where it is still just a plan and a beautiful story. Thank you. President: thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 31st Amendment, MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck submitted together. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Ruzica Igic, Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As has already been seen from previous discussions, the DSS Parliament Club and our Resorship Committee on Agriculture have very detailedly analysed this law. We've submitted 19 amendments. I must say, no amendment has been accepted for us either. So, as an opposition, we're treated the way we're treated. As far as our amendments are concerned, they were primarily referred to as helping small and medium-sized agricultural producers, including this amendment that we have submitted to that effect. The amendment to Article 31 is intended to prevent the tycoonisation of our agriculture. This amendment, in its original form, states that the amount of funds used by the beneficiary during the calendar year, on the basis of direct payments, except on the basis of credit support, may result in a total amount of 10 million dinars not being reduced. The next decrease goes between ten and 20 million. The reduction is made to 5%, and the amount of funds per user, if it exceeds 20 million dinars, is reduced by 10%. I don't know how to explain to farmers that someone gets as an incentive of 100,000 euros over the course of one year or that between 100 and 200 thousand decreases are made 5% and over 200,000 is 10%. Our amendment is in fact aimed at reducing these funds. A similar amendment was submitted by colleagues from SVM. Our proposal is that the beneficiary of the funds during the calendar year, on the basis of direct payments, except on the basis of credit support, can achieve a total of five million dinars that are not being reduced. Then, there goes a scale of five to 10 million, which decreases by 10% and over 10 million, a reduction is made by 15%. So, we thought that 10 million at a time when in Serbia a part of the agrarians is packed up and tycoonized, a huge number of poored and depreciated possessions, these are not small funds that can be achieved in terms of incentives. In this way, tycoonisation would be prevented, and the ministry, in addition to efforts to properly deploy scarce funds, would save some funds and thus manage to finance some other things. Thank you. President: thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I am informing the parliamentary group that they only have one minute and two minutes per amendment. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is a very important part of what we've come up with in this law, because this is a serious problem. In fact, the ministry shows, to say the minister, that small producers for some future agricultural development are not particularly important. In fact, what they really need to represent in some plant or development of agriculture in our country is not important for the Ministry of Agriculture, and therefore we have a situation that individual beneficiaries of the funds can achieve an incentive of over 200,000 euros at the level of the year. That is why I have proposed an amendment that will actually erase points 2, 3 and 4. I think it's quite enough that the individual user of the incentives at year level will achieve an incentive of up to 100,000 euros. You'll agree that this time of crisis is enough for anyone, especially because this measure affects the richest. So this is a measure for rich farmers. This isn't a measure for the little ones. This is the measure that allows those who are rich to be even richer and to develop further, and that those who are poor have further poverty. I don't see at all why anyone, whatever he is, as important to this country's agriculture, would get more than 100,000 euros in incentives in one calendar year. I'd really like you to explain to me how you got there. In an explanation that says why this amendment, which I have submitted, refuses to say, that you are based on a previous analysis, I am now interested in which analysis, since you have now said that you have not conducted the analysis, because you do not have all the data yet? It says -- based on an analysis, the top amount of funds can be achieved based on a direct sale of 10 million dinars, and it can be made over, but then it decreases. I think a reduction of 5% or 10% to 200 000 euros is, you'll admit, negligible for those big ones. Let's agree to do this again, when we include that topic we had about milk producers, I had a debate on this on the Agriculture Committee with Mr. Secretary of State, so at one point you're trying to even everything up, to encourage those who are the richest in the next moment. That's why I think we should all think about what's coming to us in agriculture and support this amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11283	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milica Vojić Markovic: Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, our amendment refers to Article 32, and it is in this fourth section dealing with incentives for rural development measures, and subtitles - kind of incentives for rural development measures. Up until now, it has been common for agriculture policy to be defined mainly by regulations, and so far the regulations have been passed by governments. The proposal for this law practically puts all decisions down to the level of the ministry, in fact the minister, who, if you read carefully, has very many discretionary powers. I'm always afraid of so many discretionary powers, because these decisions, these regulations can pretty much change the law and that, practically, without Parliament's insight, we get to some things they don't write in the law. On the long side, Mr. Minister, I have to make a joke since this law was in that famous air protection law package. You have these decisions to give everything to the ministry for decision-making, or the Minister for Decision-making, the government has recognised the age. The second Ministry of Environmental Protection turned out to be underage, and they were deprived of all these powers, so they were given to the Government, so you can be satisfied on that side. In Article 32, which refers to rural development measures, I must say that these measures are further incompatible with another document that exists, which is the National Rural Development Programme. I don't know why this conflict came about, but it does exist. When we look at it now, that there is a document on which these measures that are disagreed here in the law are still said to be left to the minister to prescribe the types and measures of rural development, as well as the conditions, the way and procedure for the exercise of the right to use these incentives. When you put all of this on the scale, it can really come, and already it comes, to a major discrepancy, to confusion over jurisdiction. We think it might be a good idea for him to get back to the government in charge of deciding that. I think the development of our villages, the rural development, as we call it, and how people from the villages understand us a little bit, very important areas and I think it has to be covered, and it's already covered, with a few documents and a few laws. That's why I'm afraid these interferences of these powers can really lead to confusion. Perhaps for these reasons, it is good that the Government of several resolute ministers, who covered these laws here in the Assembly, makes decisions when it comes to rural development and incentives measures of the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11285	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 33rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapčević and Ruzica Igic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11286	Your Honor, this is a very important area in this law, as regards incentives for rural development measures. I can express my satisfaction that this area is included through legal matter. I suppose the idea was that without developed villages, developed households, there was no serious production. These serious productions will not be in places where there is no active agricultural population. The active agricultural population can be productive and give much larger quantities of agricultural products if it is renewed and if young people remain in the countryside. That is why rural development measures are of paramount importance when it comes to the whole law and the whole Serbian agriculture. Without young people in the country, there are no new young people, no new households and no talk at all about the application of this law or any serious agricultural production. To keep young people in the country, many previous conditions must be met, above all to provide them with normal conditions for social life in these villages. You have hundreds and thousands of villages in Serbia in which, for example, the homes of the culture are empty, they are completely ruined and there is nothing happening in them. You have hundreds of villages where you have some sports clubs that are abandoned, children left to themselves and everyone sees that they get out of that village and go into town as soon as possible. Without incentives and measures for rural development, without some social content in these villages, opening up some Internet cafes, from fixing up the infrastructure in villages, there is no saying that young people will stay in them because they do not have these social content that young people have in the city. The very important thing to improve the rural economy is to improve rural development, provide these social content to young people in order to stay in the countryside, in order to, of course, strengthen their households and make more agricultural products and improve the agricultural economy in general. counterpart Vojić Markovic mentioned that we also have a strategy for rural development. Here you predicted there would be incentives for rural development measures. But I know from practice that this strategy has existed for several years, and I don't know if it has any effect on its implementation. It is mentioned here that there will be a measure that you will sign with a rule, and yet we do not have, to say the numbering unit how much money will be provided for rural development measures. That is why I think it is necessary to also determine the amount of money that will be allocated to rural development and the proposal is to make it at least 10% in relation to that budget that is defined as an incentive in agriculture. It is about five billion dinars a year to improve the village because without it there is no talk of any incentives, agricultural production, an economy based on agricultural production. It is very important to define the amount of money to be allocated to these rural development measures. Please think about it because 10% of the total incentives aren't big money, and that's the basic thing for agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11287	The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11288	I completely agree with you. The situation and the situation in the villages is very bad. We all know that. I think we need to work primarily on infrastructure, infirmarys, roads, schools, plumbing and sewers. To create conditions that young people have everything their peers in the city have. It's a prerequisite for people to stay on that ground and deal with agriculture. With these means you propose in this amendment that it be 10% of the total budget for agrarian, this programme brings the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I can promise you, if you believe my word, that I will surely advocate that it will be at least 10% of the agrarian budget because I think it is necessary and that even at this point it may be more important than the amount of other subsidies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11289	The word is Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11290	Thank you for your understanding of this matter. I think it's a key thing and it's 10% minimum of what needs to be an impulse for people to stay in places and develop agricultural production. On the one hand, the law will help them to have an economic interest in doing so. But if they don't have social content, if they don't have cultural content in their places, if they don't have kindergartens where they're gonna send their children to be guarded, it's really pointless to expect young people who finish some schools to live. They may go to the city and come to the university to deal with agriculture, but it's not serious agricultural production. We need to strengthen agricultural holdings, and we will strengthen them through a complete infrastructure that is understood, but without schools, without health institutions, kindergartens, cultural content in the homes of culture... You all have an absurd situation that in almost every village in Serbia you have a home of culture that was built perhaps 50 years ago. By the age of 90, these homes of culture were accumulating young people. There were some social facilities, dances, village meetings. From 90 years old and some years old, it's some kind of property-absorbing law. All homes of culture have been taken away from the jurisdiction of the council of citizens in villages and given to the use of municipalities. The keys stand in the municipalities, and people have nowhere to meet and hold a meeting. Let's not talk about young people who don't have rooms for cultural and artistic societies or anything else. The only gathering of young people in villages is sports clubs. They also camp who has to because they're in the shut-down. Without this social upgrade, there is no idea of agriculture, nor is there any saying that these incentives will result if we no longer have young people in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11291	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Ivan Karic tabled an amendment proposing that a new title be added above members and members of 33a be added after article 33. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11292	Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately and in the next few amendments, you will see that we have been given an explanation as if we were pushing our amendments to some previous position, or as if we wanted to abolish some position proposed by the Ministry of this Law. It's not intentional, and you don't say it anywhere. We always wanted to add something or a little bit of a processing of this law, but the explanation is that something is impossible because it's regulated by the previous attitude, and the previous attitude is neither abolished nor we want to abolish it, but we just want to add this as another incentive measure. We believe that the issue of a guarantee for the purchase of domestic producers' equipment for the processing of agricultural products on the lease or with the disbursement of equipment to agricultural products as the only and easiest way for agricultural producers, the lending of equipment for the processing of agricultural products with only supplies of equipment, the classical credit cannot help agricultural producers, nor the conditions on the financial market of classical credits as a guaranteed ransom for the total quantities of agricultural products offered from areas with difficult agricultural production conditions. There are no better incentives than to connect public markets or large and small public markets and thus guarantee a ransom. As a guaranteed purchase of organic products, we welcome the Minister's decision to define 400 million for organic production, as an incentive in seeds and fertilisers paid for by agricultural products. We had no intention of abolishing the benefit of a part of the cost. We just think there are other measures that we're referring to. They are based on commercial grounds with easier conditions for access and use, and the measures we have proposed are suitable for combining with grants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11293	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 34 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11294	Thank you. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, since the argument is so well-conceived, we do not dispute our first position. We have only added a second view with special incentives, programmes relating to investments in agriculture to improve competitiveness and achieve quality standards covering and support for the establishment and equipment of service centres for technical support and assistance in agricultural production and processing of agricultural products. It doesn't end the previous position, but we're proposing another addition. Unfortunately, in several amendments, the same argument is that your previous proposed incentive is annulled. It was not our intention, but we saw as green that the slowness applied available equipment and technology in the model to stimulate the green economy in agriculture, especially in the processing of agricultural products. If we wait for something to become common in the EU, then after ten years we encourage or adopt it as available technology, we will be late, as in many cases we are late. It is not difficult to understand the benefit of a service centre which has such equipment, which is used and available to manufacturers. We've got that kind of equipment on the solar drive, and it's for irrigation, and it's a cell phone for solar power. We have solar power and mobile dryers and container storage systems, biomass composting systems, mobile biomass peleting systems, etc. We think that service centres for technical assistance and support are missing services in the model of improving the processing of agricultural products and certainly, as you have given in your explanation, we were not intended to reverse what you suggested.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11295	Time. National MP Ivan Karic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Ivan Karic. You must re-apply.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11296	Mr. Minister, my place was shining, so I apologize for that. I thought you gave me your word. In Article 35, point 1 after point 3, a new point 4 is added, we do not again cancel point 1, 2 and 3, but we just have the idea to add point 4, plant cultivation with a rapid period of observation to obtain a biomass suitable for use in energy production. The term for fast-tracking plantations is intense plantations of rapidly growing species. In special cases, such as the cultivation of energy willows. The quality of the soil itself increases during the exploitation, for example, 20 years due to the creation of the humus layer by one to two categories, and you can cut those energy plantations every year and use them to get energy and increase the quality of the land, and thus you can increase the cost of renting land in the next period. The possibility that through the woody fast growing plants we can cover the degraded surfaces on the spears, eroded areas, plant these plantations and cover all the water and watery land, all the land along the railways, the protective belts, all the land along the roads, is that we do not usurp agricultural land for the use of energy plantations. What was particularly important to us is that this project can meet 10% of Serbia's energy needs, since we have the determination to move towards biomass in the energy proposals of the law. It seemed to us that this amendment would make this law better, but unless you're willing to accept it, we will respect your will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11297	National MP Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 35th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Mirna Kosanovic and Ivan Bauer. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11298	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, fellow Members and colleagues, given that the reasons for not accepting the amendment is because an amendment of Members of Parliament has been accepted, etc. With this amendment, we wanted to draw attention to the incentive to improve protection, regulation and use of agricultural land and water. Here we have in mind the protection, arrangement and use of the total land, but above all the water fund, because we think it's of primary importance. We can't look at agricultural land, especially in the light of irrigation, as a special category, and that the protection of springs, the regulation of septic caves, the protection of water streams, which we think are essential jobs, forget that they can potentially be found in rural areas. Given that the minister is in charge of water business, he probably knows that the water areas that can be used for certain plantings, which we could put into incentives, on the territory of the city of Belgrade, are between two and three thousand hectares. We think it is very important that, as part of the incentives in agriculture, we take care of the protection of springs, regulation and that all of this can result – as a result, we can irrigate with highly polluted waters in the future. Since our channels are very downgraded, in the future we may be in trouble that agricultural cultures have increased the content of heavy metals and that, forgetting this problem, we will not be able, whenever we want, to sell food.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11299	Parliamentarians Ruzica Igic and Milan Lapcevic submitted together to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Ruzica Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11300	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Our amendment refers to the part concerning specific incentives, i.e. the type of incentive. Under Article 5, the incentives for implementing breeding programmes to achieve breeding goals in livestock, we have proposed that one sentence be inserted and that it be read – incentives for the implementation of breeding programmes and the maintenance of a gene bank in centres for artificial insemination of the Republic of Serbia's cattle and to achieve breeding goals in livestock. Also, add Article 6. – incentives for the maintenance of the gene bank at artificial insemination centres of 20 % of the average seed price. The Democratic Party of Serbia believes that the high cost of seed lagers in the centres and in the field, i.e. the cost of liquid nitrogen, where the seed is located, transport to veterinary cells and infirmarys, according to the centre's calculations, is about 20%. In order not to bear these costs ourselves, we have suggested that these costs go into the subsidy procedure, i.e. to finance it in some way. The centres would thus be free of additional payments, and a genetically high-quality bull seed would be obtained at low prices, which are present in our Republic. In this way we would have far more quality breeding cows and dairy cows, as well as complete beef production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11301	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Arpad Fremond, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Zoltan Peck. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 39th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Jasmina Obradovic and Biljana Pantic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11302	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected farmers, who pay attention to the adoption of this law, and I appreciate you following today's debate. We have tabled an amendment to Article 39, which the Government has not accepted on the grounds that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the proposed measures are already covered by the draft law under the rural development measure prescribed in Article 37(3). Analyzing Article 37, we have come to the conclusion that it is an insufficiently defined type and mode of incentive, and what our amendment was about. As the Honorable Minister said, I'm sorry he's not in the O.R. right now, responding to remarks concerning this law, I quite agree that he can't fix the bad situation in agriculture overnight. As my fellow citizens say, my Futojans, that something that's been parked for years will take years to clean up and clean up. In this very fact lies the importance of passing this law. An attempt, i.e. the intention to solve problems in agriculture systematically, is possible only by adopting a good and comprehensive law on incentives in agriculture and rural development. By submitting the amendment to Article 39, we intend to make it at the stage of production, i.e. Bringing, and let's improve. The promotion of the law, by accepting this law, was mirrored in a clearly defined kind of special incentive. Why is it necessary to develop products with a geographical indication as such, and not through certain members of this law, which primarily refer to the incentive in the rural economy? It is therefore necessary to protect and encourage the production of branded agricultural products which have been officially declared as products of national interest. The indigenous varieties created in Serbia's territory are more quality and different from those currently imported. The product manufacturer with the geographical indication of counterfeits loses the competition because it is not competitive and therefore a special type of incentive, as a measure of sustainability of this production, is necessary. The process from production, delivery, processing and sales on the market must be fully transparent and fully traceability in order not to question the originality of the product at any time. So I suggest subsidizing certified production and processing of products with geographical indication. Based on the certificates issued, we propose that the ministry support the printing of control stamps, which will guarantee the consumer that the product is original and, as such, has guaranteed quality. The incentive in this part isn't a bit insignificant. What's more, he would act motivatedly on the manufacturer, as well as on the processor. When we know that the process of protection of a product does not last for months, but for years, specifically, from the idea to the realization of obtaining the product code of geographical origin for the futotic cabbage, it has been 10 years. The degree of financial investment in this project was very important, both by local self-government and by the producers themselves, and the state is rightly expected to support the further development of these cultures. Also, significant aid would be through an incentive relating to their activities related to the expansion of expertise and joint performance in the promotion of products with a geographical indication, both in the country and on the foreign market. Gentlemen of the ministry, by accepting this amendment, producers of a product marked geographical origin would get concrete support and a clear signal that the state wants to preserve and improve the production of something we advertised under the slogan – the best from Serbia. If there is no permanent investment in the production, monitoring and promotion of national agricultural brands, the production of a product with a geographical indication may eventually be extinguished. If we view these products as a special kind of national resource, the dilemma about specific incentives and the necessity of these special incentives would be resolved. I'll set an example. It has often happened that when we Futožanas legitize by saying that we are from Futoga, there is a comment – the futous cabbage. So it's already recognizable. Just to add that it's not the futotic cabbage that's produced in Futoga, it's a variety of cabbages that are characterized by special properties some of which have found a place in the pharmaceutical industry as well. Therefore, the road from 10 years to obtaining a geographical indication is something for which all, as producers, processors and end-users, but first and foremost state, must participate in the preservation and promotion of this type of agricultural product. Finally, not as the least significant incentive, on the contrary, but in order to draw the attention of the ministry's gentlemen as well as you of the MPs, who would have to be found in this law in the special incentive section, is an incentive for producers of agricultural products marked with geographical origin, for the purchase of the necessary equipment and machinery, because it is a burning problem for manufacturers of these products, and this would directly boost the competitiveness of these products. If the Agricultural Encouragement Act recognised as the necessity of encouraging the production of a product with a geographical code of origin, it would be far more directed and easier to go towards other ministries, such as the Ministry of Trade and Tourism, and I think that if this type of product, if it were to experience for the start of development, perhaps at some time, and expansion, would confirm that it is one of the resources of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11303	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic and Milica Vojić Markovic submitted to the 39th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 39th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Neven Cvetićan and Milorad Mijatovic. The Government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have adopted the amendment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have submitted an amendment to Article 40. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Since he's not here, you'll let me ask him when he gets back if he accepts this amendment. Does anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Jasmina Obradović and Biljana Pantic submitted together to the 40th amendment, with a correction. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment, with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 40th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11304	Thank you. As you said, this is an amendment to Article 40, and this article is governed by the right to use specific incentives, so it is a member of some seven positions, and it is said that the rights to use specific incentives for marketing and information systems in agriculture, then to carry out advisory and professional activities in the field of agriculture, to implement breeding programmes in livestock, to implement scientific research and development projects in agriculture, to produce fruit material and certification. I don't have time to keep counting, mostly this is a rather important proposal for a member, so that the last position is defined in this way, i.e. we believe that attitude 7, where only in general it is said that the minister will make the conditions and way of exercising the right to special incentives insufficient. So, we know, there wasn't even a need to suggest a position like this, since it is understood that the minister responsible for these matters will have to simply edit some sublegal acts, because there are a lot of different kinds of incentives. You should have accepted our amendment, which is in fact a supplement to your position, which is that by sublegal act within six months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister will be closer to prescribing the conditions and way of exercising the right to special incentives. We simply remind you with this amendment that you should have proposed a deadline. If you think this deadline that we've given is too short for six months, then you should have written it in 12 months, or a year, etc. As you suggested, we don't even have a guarantee that the ministry will even edit this area by sublaw. What is unusual is the argument you gave us to reject this amendment, which is that it is not accepted because the deadline for the adoption of sublaws is laid down in the review of the implementing rules, which are adopted under this law, and that deadline applies to all sublaws. So you're talking about some review of the implementing rules that will be passed on the basis of this bill, which is still just a draft law. This isn't the law, and it's something I couldn't find and check your deadlines for a certain sublegal act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11305	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Veličković submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11306	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, we have proposed, in Article 43, that item 3(3) be added, which would read: "According to the order of the Ministry of Agriculture's Office, a monthly review and a report on the spending of the incentives and reconstruction of the village". It refers to the rights and duties of agricultural inspectors. Why did we propose this? Such control of the spending of financial resources may be done faster than the controls regulated in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 and are cheaper, and give results on the consumption of the means that are evident and can be removed very quickly from the records that can be processed and do not have to be entered into the field in order to compare the consumption of financial resources. That is why we propose that this position be added, that is, adopted, because it has been rejected with an explanation that reads – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that the scope of the control is established by the inspector's annual work plan, and at any time on the orders of the direct manager, a report may be required. The inspector's work plan is based on the ministry's work plan. The work plan can be changed, because it's no problem at all. It's not the Constitution or the Bible that can't be changed. The work plan consists of an inspector based on the Ministry of Agriculture's work plan and can carry out this inspection very cheaply, not spending any financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11307	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Member of the 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Meso Omerovic. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Dusan Petrovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 44a be added after article 44a. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Vladimir Marinkovic submitted an amendment proposing that a new Article 50a be added after the title of Chapter VIII. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11308	Thank you. Namely, this is a technical amendment. The law provides for the purpose and distribution by types of funds and the volume of funds to be made up of 5% of the republican budget. It's in the proposed law. Since the budget was adopted last year for this year, the Republic's budget, and the Rural Development Act, i.e. to encourage rural development, is now being brought forward, in order to be harmonised as it should be proposed by this amendment that, exceptionally in 2013, the amount of funding provided for in Article 4(2) of this Law may be less than 5% of the Republic of Serbia's budget, in terms of the law governing the budgetary system. Of course, this will apply, as the amendment says, only this year, because our goal is to make the next year and all the next years' funding for agriculture even greater than five percent. In the principle debate when I was talking about this law, I also said that this law was good, which it turned out to be. This law has been subject to 130 amendments, 14 amendments submitted by MPs, and four amendments have been submitted by the Committee on Agriculture, those adopted. There are a number of other amendments that have been good amendments, where MPs have had some other vision that this law should look like and most of the proposed amendments have gone towards improving this legislative proposal. As we said, this law meant to ensure one long-term predictability in agriculture, agricultural stability and the transparency of agrarian policy. There were a lot of words about incentives, whether they were tall enough, whether they were small, etc. However, as I said, you should see what the goal of these incentives is. It's not a social category. Incentives should be made possible to improve agricultural production and the development of agriculture. Certainly with the development of agriculture, we will be able to achieve, of course, greater incentives in the future. State incentives should affect the increase in agricultural production and thus improve the situation of agriculture and farmers. Also, by improving and developing agriculture and by this law, it should be possible for agricultural producers to specialize in production, which will make it possible to make the biggest profit possible. We should also enable the development of the village, i.e. rural development. I would conclude that this law is very good to begin with, and how it's going to apply will depend on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11309	Thank you. I ask Mr. Knezevic to plead on the amendment of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management which he submitted to Article 40. Does he accept it or not? Here you go, Mr. Prince.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11310	I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11311	I find that the amendment to article 40 has become an integral part of this law. Member of the 52nd amendment was submitted by MP Janko Veselinović. The government and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11312	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment proposed that this law be valid for only two years, so until 31 December 2014. From my point of view, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, I cannot accept this. If the government would accept this, it would be a precedent. So she would have devalued everything she'd done by now. This law provided for a long-term agricultural policy, i.e. the minimum amounts provided for in the next period. According to this law, as a farmer, I can say that agricultural producers will plan long-term and their agricultural policy, that is to say withdraw the appropriate loans for the machinery, for the purchase of throats, and any reduction of some period of validity of this law would be devastating, not only for the Ministry of Agriculture, but for agricultural production in Serbia. So this is a few steps, a few good steps in the right direction, and if we adopt this amendment that my colleague suggested, everything we did right would be ruined. I think there's still more problems here that the Ministry needs to deal with, above all, on the subject of the raspberries. They will be very active and the ministry will have to do much, since the minister knows that they have already reported and that they have been building their meetings. The rest is unsolved strawberry and berries. There needs to be a mechanism to support it, but how to improve that production to be competitors with Poland, Chile, etc. Also, I think it remains to encourage irrigation systems through rural development, and it must be a long-term agricultural policy, so it would be devastating for us to accept this amendment proposed by my fellow opposition party because it would be devastating if we didn't want the flood, as so far as it was a flood, to be the only water system in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11313	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We are moving to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a State Belonging Law and APPLICATION OF PLAW pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Goran Knezevic, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Transport, I have also called for the meetings to be attended by Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport and Milorad Ilic, Assistant Minister of Transport. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic and Marijan Risticevic. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I've been in a principle debate with an authorised representative of the DSS on this agenda point, so that that time I'm using to explain the amendments, and it's more than two minutes, I'm asking that you refuse me from that time on. I have to express my regrets, in some ways, that the minister who's in charge of the traffic business isn't here with us tonight. I know Minister Knezevic can successfully defend the colors of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but I suppose he has not dealt with this issue in more detail. So, on the agenda is the state membership and registration of the Republic of Serbia's vessels. I guess he didn't have time to meet, probably didn't even know he was going to defend the amendments to this bill today. One more thing that's also wrong, it's that Mr. Knezevic has been here since this morning since 10.00 hours and has heard arguments on some hundred amendments that all MPs have submitted to this previous law. From what I've seen, he's been following it closely, accepting it, not accepting it. I don't think he's going to be able to carefully wash out these arguments, so before I think he can say, after discussing any amendment, whether he accepts it or not, he just won't want to get involved in the business of his colleague who's in charge of traffic affairs. But let me go back to this amendment now. Otherwise, Article 3 is a member - meaning terms. There are some 38 different terms and terms that appear through this bill, which is otherwise very large, there are 194 members. This first article refers to point 14) and point 20 of this article. It's the first correction. Or you would suggest and say, "A public vessel is a vessel used by a state body, which is not a warship and which serves exclusively for non-economic purposes." I've proposed to the amendment that you change this "to non-economic purposes". I don't think that's in the spirit of our language at all. I don't know if any of you, even the minister who officially and proposed this law, have ever used the words "for non-economic purposes" in life, are using something for non-economic purposes. We suggest that you change this in the words "which is not used for economic activity", i.e. that a public vessel is a vessel used by a state body, which is not a warship and which is not used for economic activity, or that no profit is made. It is the first intervention under the amendment. The second intervention refers to the definition or explanation of the word or term "movable platform". The promoter says "the immovable platform is an artificial island, an installation or structure that is permanently attached to the seabed for the purpose of exploring or exploiting wealth or for other economic purposes". We also suggested here that you replace the words "installation or structure" with the words "building construction" because the installation is an installation, there is nothing to do with immovable platforms, and for these immovable platforms are not said structure. If it had written a construction structure here, etc., that would have been acceptable. Now, I think we're making a better proposal through the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11315	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11316	You're right. I'm sorry, because the chairman reacted lightningly, so he went straight to the law. I wanted first of all to apologize to you on behalf of the minister, the author of authority, he's really justifiably absent. Just about an hour ago, I found out I was gonna be here, so believe me, I'm really sorry that I might not be competent enough to answer some of your questions. They'll help me with my colleagues, as far as I can, from the Ministry, but you're right, I'm not quite ready for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11317	Thank you. The word is Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11318	I'd just like to suggest something, and you may, in your capacity as Minister of Government, accept the amendments, and later inform your colleague who is in charge of traffic operations.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11319	Thank you. The word is Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11320	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am first sorry that the Bishopal Government, as said by Prime Minister Dacic, who has four ministers dealing with construction, urbanism, infrastructure, Mrs. Kalanovic, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Bacevic, Mr. Velimir Ilic, must hire the Minister of Agriculture. With all his respect and his will and desire for him to participate in this debate, I think, however, that one of the four Ministers of Infrastructure could come and discuss this topic. I would like to thank my colleagues Donki Banović and Milic Vojić Markovic for having submitted several amendments that are not only of a lexic nature but have significantly corrected those style irregularities in this law itself, but also of vigilance and attention when it comes to these other amendments. Certainly, I will take part in the debate on this very important point, especially in the face of the fact that Minister Bacevic is currently in China negotiating on the Belgrade-Solun channel, so I will certainly use the amendment debate to discuss it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11321	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party of Serbia has submitted several amendments for the simple reason that it has noticed that this law, which has many shortcomings as a fundamental disadvantage covering those other languages, is an incomprehensible language. So we're perfectly clear on how this translation happened, that translation as if you typed into Google and translated it that way. Here it has nothing to do with the spirit of language what you wrote, with the spirit of Serbian, has to do with another language, with English, of course, but we simply use the Serbian language for Serbian laws. So in this Article 5, which otherwise refers to statehood and which reads – the Republic of Serbia has the right to exercise administrative, technical supervision and economic and social supervision over state-owned vessels. Has anyone ever heard of a sentence forming in Serbian like this? I've been feeling like a government lecturer for the last few days because these laws really need someone to be lectured about it. In the one that was referring to the stamps that would come, there we didn't make the difference between the written and the written submission, so that's where I was dealing with this. Someone will say I'm a professor of Serbian, and I'm not, I'm just speaking Serbian, so it just bothers me terribly that these laws make it sound like this. We have made an amendment and listen to the sound of a sentence written in Serbian, which has the same meaning, meaning – the Republic of Serbia has the right and the obligation to exercise administrative and technical supervision over vessels that have the state status of the Republic of Serbia. This sentence has both a tail and a head and it's quite clear what it wants to achieve by this law. I just don't know why ours isn't accepted because it doesn't change the essence you wrote here, but it does change this hornaby that has nothing to do with the spirit of the Serbian language. I don't know how you feel when you read this in writing, I know that I feel bad when I read something more times and then I don't have one clear insight of how I wrote it and if it makes sense. Let someone else read this, this really sounds terrible, embarrassing when it comes to the Serbian parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11323	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11324	Mr. Chairman and Honorable Mr. Minister, I simply have to support this amendment, Mrs. Vojić Markovic, because if I from Kruševac understand her very well from Valjev, I believe that our beautiful Serbian language is equally well spoken in Užica, Čačka, Krusevec, Valjev and Belgrade. There is no need for the government to stubbornly refuse to accept this amendment because this is about lexic corrections that significantly correct the quality of the law. In the end, I don't think there's any need to be ashamed if the government was quick to write this law, say we were in a hurry to sail these ships to Thessaloniki, so we were in a hurry to pass the law, and we didn't have time. So I urge you to support this amendment because I really don't see any problem in the amendment. The point is, I underline, about the lexic corrections that are very useful because the law needs to paint primarily our beautiful Serbian language and I don't think there's any problem here. I say, if we in Kruševec and we in Valjevo are able to understand this law, I think that our language is spoken equally in India, and in Čačka, and in Kruševec, and all MPs will vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11325	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11326	I will take this opportunity to comment on this previous amendment. The amendment also left out something that we were not very clear what we wanted for the member to do, that is to say, over the vessels of state belonging to the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia has the right and the obligation to exercise administrative, technical, but also some kind of economic and social surveillance. We kind of understood what kind of surveillance it was, but I think it was meant to be different, possibly by some new attitude, to make it clear, not in the list. Indeed, in this list, it is not clear what kind of surveillance is, in particular, that, within this point, some conventions are also discussed, in principle, about some conventions that regulate the social protection of the seafarers, so that this should have been dealt with differently. As regards amendments to Article 12, this Article 12 otherwise regulates the highlighting of names and markings on inner navigation ships with its own drive, seaship, yachts, floating objects, where the name should be highlighted in order to be visible, but also the registration number. We suggest that the second part of the sentence, where the registration number is concerned, be changed in the following way – the registration number for the identification of the boat must be highlighted on both sides of the bow, the registration number of the floating object must be highlighted in a visible place on the outside of the floating object. So we've been doing this a little bit longer in a sentence that's not really quite understandable, and we just wanted to divide it into two so it's understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11327	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11328	A national MP who feels like a teacher on duty, but it looks like someone has to do it, because someone who's in charge of it doesn't. Article 16(2) states - the Ministry shall provide the organisation referred to in Article 15(1) of this Act with the following information on the company or registered owner of the seaship. Point 2 states - the state of registration of the company, i.e. the owner of the maritime ship. It's the same remark again. It's unclear what's what, what's being delivered and what's left. See how it sounds like what we wrote – delivers the name of the state in which the company, i.e. the owner of the maritime ship, is registered. So we know what they need to deliver. I just think that when someone comes to using this law, whether they oversee the application of this law, they're going to have fat problems, because they won't know what to do. It's also difficult for anyone who controls the application of this law, who needs to keep an eye on the information provided by this law. So it's very broadly understood what's written, and it shouldn't be that way. You still have to know in the law what's what. It's even funnier that you've responded to me as a reason why you don't accept the amendments we've submitted. You are referring to the Convention on Law, which must be regulated, the obligation of the State of the Party to this Convention to provide... Look, you just don't understand the answer. You just understand that there's some convention you're referring to, and that convention is not about literacy. It's some convention we can't understand or what a head is or what a tail is. Guys, this law has to be written, first of all. Must refer to Serbian spelling. Imagine a sentence that says - the ministry delivers the following information, the state of registration, the company, or the owner of a seaship? What's he supposed to deliver? I don't understand why you didn't accept it. It has nothing to do with the convention. It has to do with the literacy of the elemental. Give the lecturer a lesson before you deliver it to the Parliament. I don't know how the ministers voted in the government. I guess someone explained to them what it was about, and people accepted the "I come to you," "honorous word" and so on. Please read. Mr. Prince, you are a serious man, read the laws, please. There's a lot of things in the law. It doesn't look like Parliament and it doesn't look like the government. We want to be a serious state? I support you in being a serious state, but, please, let's be in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11329	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic. The ruler and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11330	This member is in part three. It's also various records of the vessel. Otherwise, one of the big newspapers that is introduced by this law is in fact simplifying the entry of a vessel into the appropriate register and that this bill abolishes the role of courts, so that the process is simplified and, of course, it will be more efficient and faster. We expect it to be one of the results. There are a lot of newspapers, i.e. for the first time, the opening of registers for seaboats and so on. the international register of maritime ships. This proposal for a law provides for the possibility of temporary admission and printing of a maritime ship into an international register, etc. So a lot of the members talk about the enrollments and the very procedure of enrolment. This amendment refers to the title above Article 19. It's the form in which the records of the vessel are kept. The idea of a proposaler is next. The first point is that the registers of the vessel are kept in the form of books. The second view that the ministry runs domestic registers and electronic records containing a database for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. The promoter says these books will be run in two ways. In the information age, it is fully satisfied with the requirement that, in addition to this written form, it be in the form of electronic records. What our amendment refers to is that this first position is changed, so that the records of the vessel are kept in the form of a written register, not only in the form of a book, because the book can also be electronic. If you haven't listed written books, no matter how weird that sounds, it's not right. So we suggest that instead of the word "book" it should be in the form of a written register, that these two carriers of information really differ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11331	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11332	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I will certainly support these amendments by Mrs. Vojić Markovic and Mrs. Donke Banovic, but I will say that I am sorry that the resolution board today refused my amendment, because when we talk about the register, I have proposed that all ships and all vessels be registered in Stalac, as Stalac is located in a nice place, in the middle of that waterway between Belgrade and Grdelica. The town of Stalac is located in the municipality of Cicvac. There's a very beautiful song that says, "Walkling travelers, you who travel across the country Serbia, whoever you may be, stop where the shy South Morava stopped, in a hug with the waved West Morava, to draw the most beautiful Serbian and the largest Serbian river, the Greater Morava, and you also water the thirsty soul with the beauty of the country of Serbia." One such beautiful place, such as Stalac, which is so beautifully sung in folk songs, deserves to be there. I am absolutely convinced that this government will end this mentioned channel of Belgrade -- Thessaloniki, and that Stalac, as a major port on that waterway, will qualify and run to be the seat of all the ships that will sail that channel. I am absolutely convinced that all SNS MPs believe this government, that they are absolutely confident that this channel will live and that they will vote in favour of this amendment, because I see no reason not to support such a significant amendment that will contribute to the development of the municipality of Cicicevic and the local community of the town of Stalac. Where will you look better than to have all those ships here? Imagine how much touristly beautiful events will be able to organize in Stalac, a regatta Stalac – Thessaloniki, as has the Drinska regatta...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11333	Mr. Millyvoy, please, when you're discussing, don't be so ironic. It is not in the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, nor shall I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11334	Not me, they're just begging. They're just looking with a project like this...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11335	Please don't. Then you put me in a position... You speak with a lot of irony and you violate the Rules of Procedure. Continue on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11336	I will shorten my discussion to your appeal and request, since I see that the minister is tired, and there are no four Ministers of Infrastructure. I believe that SNS believes in his government, his minister, Bačević, who went to China to be in charge. The register and register of all ships should be the town of Stalac. I support this initiative and I urge you to vote in favour of this amendment. I promise you a gondola ride from Kruševec to Stalac and I'll drive a gondola if I have to, and you just vote for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11337	The word is made by Minister Goran Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11338	Just for the sake of truth. The chairman has already drawn attention to the dose of irony in presenting the previous speaker. I don't think it's right. The government of the Republic of Serbia sat down last week and decided to confirm a contract on a feasibility study for the big project. So it's not about any borrowing, it's not about any financial obligations, it's simply about making a feasibility study that will show if such a project can be implemented at all. It's one preparatory phase that works for every project, it was big, it was small. So that's the part that needs to be done. If he's successful, if he shows that the justification of this project is good, then we'll just talk about the continuation of the project itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11339	Thank you. On what basis are you answering? I won't let you. Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure. But make sure it's really in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11340	Article 104. Rules of Procedure. I have the right to a replica. I wanted to give a very useful piece of advice to Mr. Secretary and this government. Serbia's history doesn't begin with this government. The previous government, the previous agriculture minister... (Chairman: Don't, please.) It's very important. The previous government has already done a study. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11341	I simply won't let you, because your discussion has caused a lot of ironic relations with the law. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. It's my right to give you my word or not. You know very well that it is my right to assess whether you have the right to replication. I've estimated that you have no right. The word was sought by Marijan Risticevic. On what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11342	I have the right to use the time of the parliamentary group, according to the amendment. I want to make one fact in the introduction about the seat and register of the vessel. It's one fact that's verifiable.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11343	Mr. Risticevic, don't do that now, please. If you want the amendment, you can.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11344	One of them is allowed everything, the other is not allowed to begin. Others aren't allowed to do anything. (President: I am now asking you – do you want the amendment, or do you want the replica? If you want a replica, you don't have the right to do it, because the MP didn't mention you. This is an amendment debate. I need to make an introduction, if you'll excuse me. It is said that up until recently in the office of Aleksandar Krisanovic, special adviser to Minister Dulic, in Nemanja 11, a large board was on the wall on the left of the entrance on which the projects that this ministry intends to implement were printed. The Danube-Egay Sea Channel, as one of the main projects, was presented in the upper right corner. So, I support the port being in Stalaca and my colleague can hold a chain of fast food, but provided he doesn't poison people like 10 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11345	Thank you. He has the word Dejan Radenkovic. I apologize to Radenkovic, according to Business, he has the word Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11346	Article 107. The chairman, with all due respect, is not foreseen anywhere in the Rules of Procedure, does the truth because of the Rules of Procedure, that someone can be taken away from the word because it is ironic. So no one was offended. What may have looked like irony to you may not be ours. Perhaps we believe more in this project than the ruling majority. So I think that's where you're wrong. How can we prove to you that we, for example, believe to the end that there will be a port in Stalaq to register a vessel? You say we are ironic, and I look at you and say, "Here, we really believe there will be regattas from Stallach to the Aegean Sea." How do you think anyone's ironic now? And if it were, I'm telling you that there is no basis for taking away words in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11347	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. If you think we should make a statement about it, fine. (No) National MP Dejan Radenkovic has a word, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11348	As a committee reporter, I need to get to know the public. We have led the controversy today and on the Committee, as far as the proposal is concerned. First, even today as a representative of the Committee, I said that even at one point I thought my colleague Milivojević had a bit of a joke and that it was an extremely unserious proposal for me, because there is no port captainship there, there are no crews who live there, based on the enrolment for Stalac is Luke's Captain Smederevo, etc. This is all an empty story for some small points and I don't think there's any point in making fun of a serious thing, and that's a seat entry. That should write nicely. The ship should also have its seat, and that would be Belgrade. I don't know what this whole thing would lead to, if it were Stalac, so that the ships would sail in international waters and write Stalac, that everyone would look and wonder what country it was from, and where is Stalac? I don't think this stands and there's any justification in what my colleague Milivojevic is proposing. There may be an opportunity in the future, so it's first declared to be a port captainate, so it's set up a sequence of events, so maybe later to determine and register the vessel, to set up a serious port captainium there, with serious capacity, and then we can talk about it, as well as the capacity to record and register the vessel. As a representative of the Committee, I thank you. I just wanted to meet the other MPs and the public about what kind of controversy was going on on the Committee. When I saw that my colleague Milivojevic was serious, and if it was really a very serious proposal, I would just remind him that those who made similar proposals in the previous term are no longer sitting in the Assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11349	The word has Srdjan Milivojevic since he was mentioned. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11350	Replica, since I've been mentioned twice. I thank the colleagues who mentioned me. All my suggestions are very serious. I love the neighborhood I come from, especially the town of Stalac, the southern and western Morava and the place where the great Morava comes from, and I've never made any unserious suggestions. I am absolutely convinced that Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic can build a port captainship before the deadline. Because, to build a port captain's building, it's a joke, a party, for both Cicician and Stalac, and for Barvarin and Kruševac. It's a very important note, since you didn't listen to me till the end. Again, I underline -- Serbia's history does not begin from this government. And the previous government was doing something. It exists in the cabinet of ministers, then, agriculture, Slobodan Milosavljevic, a feasibility study done by the Energy Project. There's no need to pay for an ex post feasibility study for the same project. Maybe we should just look at what that feasibility study says. I'll tell you right away - the waterway at the part of that waterway is possible and would significantly repair Serbia's hydrological picture, enable irrigation, build six hydropower plants and contribute significantly to the energy efficiency of the Republic of Serbia and improve the hydrological opportunities on the territory covered by the West and Great Morava, and in part and southern Morava. So it's not an unserious proposal at all, and don't judge on the basis of the proposal whether it comes from opposition or from position, whether they're serious or unserious. In the end, if I'm ironic and you're mortally serious, does that mean you don't trust the government of the Republic of Serbia and trust me? Don't give up the projects promoted by your party president until recently, and promoted by your president as a coalition partner. There's no need to be ashamed of you. These are serious projects, strategic projects. I believe in them. After all, if someone didn't read Jules Verne when he was a kid, they'd have to try to find their way through the centre of the country at 55. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11351	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to the title above Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11352	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know if the motionary is a shame that I'm talking about the same thing for the hundredth time? I'm embarrassed. I really have to admit, I'm embarrassed to be correct, familiar with the language. It's not an MP's jurisdiction, but I guess I do. The contents are not suitable for language. It is said in Serbia – content. I don't see what was too controversial to accept? Now I've managed to dissipate that you haven't accepted the amendment, so at least the legislator says, because it calls for the Convention on the Law of the Sea. The Convention on the Law of the Sea prohibits the use of Serbian terms for Serbian law. I don't know if there is a convention on the proper use of Serbian language, but it should certainly be written and accepted in this House, so that we can understand the laws that are ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11353	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No). National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No). National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11354	Thank you. As you said, this is an amendment relating to Article 33. It's a bill of law. Otherwise, this article discusses the procedure of changing the permanent record of the ship, which is attached and within what time limit. Actually, there's no deadline here. That's why I, or we intervened, because in point 3. says that copies of changes to the ship's permanent record, the ship's commander or the company, so the owner, are required to deliver without delay to the competent authority. It's clear to me, it's in an explanation, that without delay means immediately. But the worst is when you write it indefinitely, because it's immediately relatively, it depends on the people you're dealing with. It could be five days for someone right now. It's two hours. So I suggested that you, instead of this "no delay", give a seven-day period, therefore, within seven days that changes must be made if there is any change to that permanent record. You wanted to convince me that it's much faster than a given deadline, whether it's seven, maybe you could change it there for five days. But what I've learned is that if you leave things undefined in the bill like this, then they're causing you trouble later on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11355	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No). National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11356	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 40 is in the section relating to technical requirements for the entry of ships into the home register. In the first position, the ship must have valid ship documents issued by the authority of the administration responsible for determining the capacity of vessels to sail or to know the classification of the company, as well as that it fulfils the technical and other conditions prescribed by law. According to what international regulations require, in addition to technical conditions, the ship must meet environmental requirements and it must stand in law. They are very strict regulations that determine these ecological requirements, they are very strict in the world, especially European regulations are very strict. In order to explain why you have not accepted the amendment, you are telling me that technical regulations include environmental regulations as well. No, technical regulations mean regularity and other things. The environmental regulations are very precise, and I wish you'd looked at it a little bit better. On the other hand, we intervened at the last position, where it says – the government prescribes the highest allowed age of ships to enter one of the registers of ships. If it does not seem that, say, it should stand – the government, we Government - are changing the Ministry, meaning Minister Resorial, should prescribe, so now, the highest allowed age, as you wrote, and we say – the maximum allowed age of ships. Maybe we understand language differently, I just mean, sometimes when I watch you react, I don't really seem to speak the same language as you do. You probably understand the language you wrote as a proposal. I know I don't understand, but I talked to people from other areas who also say -- this is a language that's very difficult to understand, because it's translated as translated. Either you're looking for another translator or a lecturer, you've got to change something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11357	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 52 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11358	Article 52 refers to the nationality, i.e. the nationality of the crew of ships, and it is quite detailed that on ships registered in an international register of ships, commander or first officer, as well as the manager of a machine or another officer must be domestic citizens or nationals of one of the EU Member States, etc., now sentences – while other crew members may be persons regardless of their nationality. It is understood that other crew members will be faces. There won't be any tables. So there will be faces. We've proposed an amendment to get you out of this unfortunate formulation. I don't understand why you didn't quite accept it. We suggest that you stand there – they can be citizens of other states, so other crew members can be nationals of other states. Otherwise, it is these regulations here and arranged, that 51% of the crew must be citizens of either Serbia or any other European state. So other people can be citizens of other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11359	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11360	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I didn't want to report for the previous three amendments, since I wanted to sublime everything through the debate on Article 52. Indeed, many language illogicalities were created in the original translation of this law, from having the highest age allowed, to being citizens of persons, not citizens. Now, just one brief suggestion to the people of the Committee on the Legislatives of the Republic of Serbia who prepare these laws – please don't bring us laws with these words, because we agree on wood, and we agree, the fat ones are pigs, and the books are large, and the people are tall, the age can't be high. In the end, citizens are a much nicer word than faces. Therefore, I really ask you to take care of the way these laws are proposed to the MPs. There are also professors of literature and professors of Serbian language, there are intellectuals. But, in the end, if you don't know, here I will suggest – there is Professor Buntic in Kruševec, there is Ivan Klein, there are serious people who care about the beauty of our language. It is not good for a government to send such legal proposals, as formulated, to the Assembly, because yet this transmission is seen by all citizens, even children and say – if this is allowed in the Government, then we are allowed to do the same in written exercises and written tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11361	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11362	I think we can accept this amendment. It's a much better formulation you've given. I think that's okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11363	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11364	I have submitted an amendment to Article 55, which reads: "A yacht, a sea yacht owned by a legal person based in the Republic of Serbia, or a natural person who is a domestic citizen resident in the Republic of Serbia, is obliged to register in yachts, boats and floating facilities, regardless of the country in which the yacht is located." What I wanted to accomplish with this amendment is next. Out of seven yachts of Serb tycoons of around 104.5m euros in total, Serbia has not received a tax dinar since they are registered in foreign tax havens. Even if, in some cases, they registered their luxury vessels in Serbia, they would all pay a total tax of 35,000 euros for them. Namely, the ship's or yacht's tax of 15m or more is between 108 000 and 494 thousand dinars, depending on engine power, which is less than 5,000 euros per piece. According to official records, however, no yachts of such gauges have been registered in Serbia, although numerous domestic tycoons, including king's sherps and sugars, are racing each other whose water queen will be bigger and longer. I know that behind us, when some of us have given each other away, it's time, in my opinion, for us to break the tax on the hooves, ruthless and rudely rich. It's a shame to be rich in a country that's become a social case, where almost a million people have social cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11365	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11366	I will certainly support this amendment, because I love that all these yachts, which our rich people have, are taxing here in Serbia, are registering here. I am sorry that the applicant of the amendment did not say that these yachts are registered in Stalac too, because there will be a large port and port captainium when this channel is built, and of course, it is not some financial burden for yacht owners, because the yacht tax is paid mostly either by boat and boat length or by engine power, and I am absolutely convinced that it will be easier for the leaders of the current ruling coalition, that they do not have to go to Monte Carlo and take pictures on those yachts, but they come to Stalać well and take pictures there. Since someone said that they were sitting here by some who were no longer in parliament, they were waving pictures of those who are in power today on decks of such yachts. I will vote for this amendment and I am absolutely confident that the SNS will support this amendment. I can't believe, simply, that Mr. Risticevic will be left alone in this amendment. I don't think there's any reason why we shouldn't support him. The Republic of Serbia's budget should be charged, a little by little, and it will be at least 10 metres of channels. But if his current coalition partners don't support him, they still intend to paint on those yachts in Monte Carlo, not Stalac. And by the way, when you've already warned me about Stalac, I don't know if anyone's going to open fast restaurants in Stalac, but when someone's poisoning themselves with food, he's having digestive problems for a few days, when he's poisoning himself with politics, he never gets up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11367	The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11368	I'm afraid my previous colleague didn't understand me. These yachts didn't come when my coalition partners came to power. So these yachts were built at the time of a party now run by a billionaire. I think my colleague's been working on her conscience, that he's ashamed of that time. It's a time when much of the poor were given to the rich. It's a time when it wasn't to fight poverty, it was to fight the poor. I welcome what he wants to support my amendment, since he knows who this is. This is your former financial director's yacht. He had one small boat in 2000, perhaps five, six meters long, and then he got three sugars per three euros, a total of nine euros and then his boat grew, it grew longer and longer... (President: Mr. Risticevic, it has nothing to do with the subject, please return to the topic. I'm on the subject. I suggested that yachts register. To make it to the end 48 meters long. Here, I suggest you park it in Stallach, but don't sell fast food on it again and poison people, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11369	Thank you. Mr. Milivojevic, right on the line. Here you go. I'm sorry, Mr. Milivoevich, but I still have to give my word to my colleague Shayn, he wanted to do business. I'll give you your time back when it's your turn.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11370	The Honorable Chairman, I just wanted to ask you in article 107. The Rules of Procedure in paragraph 2 shall be read – no direct address shall be allowed at the session of the National Assembly. My denominator, counterpart Milivojevic, says that the leaders of the ruling majority have yachts and address us directly. As much as I speak Serbian, and if I don't understand it enough, I'm really going to have to look for an interpreter, but leaders are people who are very specific people in Serbian. I am the president of the Roma Party who is a member of the ruling coalition and I feel that he is speaking to me personally and I think that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I ask you to remind him next time, that clearly makes a difference in who has yachts, who doesn't have yachts, and that doesn't turn out to be yachts owned by some MPs from other MPs' clubs, because we really don't have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11371	Thank you. I don't think I hurt Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, since the previous speaker had not addressed anyone directly. What you've been commenting on has not been a direct address, and as far as the amendments to the Rules of Procedure are concerned, when it comes to order, we'll talk about it. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11372	We obviously don't understand each other very well here, and I'm very sorry about that. The first tycoon bought the size of the first yacht in Serbia in 1998, when the DS was in opposition, and that's just the truth. The second yacht was bought in 1999. When it comes to the registration of vessels in Serbia, there is one problem called insurance for these yachts. Large insurance companies cannot afford such a yacht, unfortunately, and I will vote for that amendment again, although I do know that large insurance companies consider Serbia a high-risk country and do not want to secure such a yacht in Serbia. I'm very sorry about that, but I'm undermining it again. The truth is, I will vote, support this amendment, because I am not ashamed that someone in 1998, 1999, in 2000 made it possible to produce tycoon. It doesn't go to the soul of the DS, nor does the rest of us sitting here. Those who suggest it should look around, look left, right, if they don't know where, look in the mirror, maybe they'll just have caste who, when and what yacht they bought. When it comes to poisoning, I'm undermining it again, when someone is poisoned with food has three days of digestive problems and he's a little sick, but when you poison him with politics, when you poison him that bread can cost three dinars, when you poison him with the fact that if a NATO boot sets foot on Kosovo, he'll spend most of his life pulling out of politics, if someone says that as long as it is I have a right to a replica, I don't know what you're nervous about and what's burning your guilty conscience. [[Lowers from the bench: Is that the theme?]] Listen to me, it doesn't hurt much, it takes two minutes. You're constantly shocked by something. I'm an anitshok therapy for you. Then listen, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11373	Thank you. Mr. Shane, by amendment? (Srdjan Shain: According to the Rules of Procedure, again Article 107) So you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure. Sign up one more time. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shane.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11374	I really don't know, maybe I don't understand this well enough, but a colleague says he's a shock therapy for us, a colleague says the same thing, and it's really offensive by Article 107. I think you should have interrupted him, but here, I'll accept this, too, so I don't understand. I guess I'll learn to work in this assembly a little better Serbian, so I'll understand what that means, but for me it's really an insult, I don't know how for other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11375	I ask all MPs to really treat the National Assembly with dignity and to take care of what they are talking about during the discussions. Mr. Risticevic, according to the Rules of Procedure or by amendment? (Marian Risticevic: By Amendment. I need to know how you're picking up, for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11376	I'm gonna use time per amendment, so that we don't get to hang out with that Rules of Procedure anymore. Here we all are, and between us and me, transferred some 90s, some 1997, 1998, 1999, etc. I was talking about a specific case here. I was talking about privatising three times three euros and saying that some kind of water supply extended because of it. So I support being ironic and funny, but when someone tells the truth, it's not funny. When someone's yelling, his arguments are very thin. When someone tells us that we're being unreasonable, I can answer that it's hard for me to explain to someone that the other person is not unreasonable, because that's where you can hardly find an argument. So here it's said that we were in the 1990s, and in the 1990s, I was a tough opposition. In the 1990s, I didn't make a government with Slobodan Milosevic. The Democratic Party is, and the Republic, perhaps it wasn't bad either, both republican and federal. I didn't have a single minister, and I don't know why I've earned so much attention from my colleague to transfer it to me and honor it. So, unlike them, I didn't even go to Pale to eat ox. I didn't support any major military actions, unlike them. Now everything I haven't done, someone's trying to tell me. Maybe it was my minus. Maybe I should have done it, but I didn't do it. The party he's running now is a billionaire, that party in the past has done it. It's supported, it's facts, it can be proven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11377	Mr. Risticevic, since you told me to take your time from the parliamentary group, please return to the topic. Mr. Milivojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11378	Madam Chairman, everyone has the right to be recognized in my discussion and everyone has the right to have my discussion affecting him, sealing and reminding him of the political past. If someone recognizes myself in my discussion, and thinks she didn't refer to him after all, he has a problem, not me talking. Anyone who recognizes himself here has a problem. I know exactly who ruled this country in 1998, 1999, and 2000. years, when the first tycoons I spoke of were formed. If anyone here is recognized, I was not talking about today’s tycoons that have 400 acres [400 ha] of land, and I was talking about tycoons from 1998, 1999, and 2000. A year. If anyone recognized him, it's his problem, not mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11379	Please stick to the agenda theme. Mr. Shain, according to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11380	Dear Chairman, I would just like to read Article 108, which says, because of the breach of order at the session, the President of the National Assembly can give the measures of caution, confiscation of words, etc. I really cannot find a foothold in this Rules of Procedure, for you gave your respected colleague Srdjan Milivojevic the floor line. The replica on the replica can't be. He didn't mention the member he was talking about. If he spoke according to the amendment, then he cannot speak beyond the subject as he spoke. I'm just asking you to explain it to me, to make it a little bit clearer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11381	I can explain, Mr. Shane. Paragraph 4 of Article 104 speaks of the decision on the right to reply being made by the chairman of the National Assembly. There's no limited number of replicas anywhere, and I'm deciding who I'm giving the line to. Mr. Dejan Radenkovic answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11382	Dear Vice President, we have rejected this amendment on the Committee, but just to get a little involved in the controversy, so that we do not not understand Serbian, although I think colleague Srdjan understands Roma as well, so it is no problem at all in that language to tell him. Let me explain. As of today, I see his desire to run for office one day, when we open up that port captainship in Stalaca, if ever he is, to become the head of that port captainship. In that time, gondolary will gain experience from the area, so it will meet all the conditions for such a job. It's just his wish and nothing else. I think it's okay and I totally understand him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11383	Do any of the applicants want to hurt the Rules of Procedure, so I know who wants the advantage? No, I don't. ) In that case Srdjan Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11384	Right on the line. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am absolutely convinced that this government will realise all of its projects and these projects with which it plans to assign us 19 billion euros, even if there is no lead in the Great Morava, it is important to do so. You know, I don't know if I'm gonna wait until I'm a gondolier at 101 and head of the port captain's office at 120. Perhaps I should, sir, live so much and wait to see that channel. What are you nervous about? Everyone on the gum in Marjan Risticevic's mouth, it reduces anxiety. Don't be nervous. Don't throw it at me, it's not polite. Take out the cards of MPs who aren't here. You see how these cards are fighting for the Danube -- Belgrade -- Thessaloniki -- in the first row, let's say, in front of Mr. Atlagic, that card stands, as far as I can see, stuck there. I see these cards fight well for that channel. It's your turn to help with that card in that fight. Respect the small dignity of this congregation and endure criticism. Don't throw it at me. There's no need to get upset. I understand that you do not support the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that you will not vote in favour of this amendment, but it speaks of you and not of me. Here, I will vote in favour of this amendment, to support such a brilliant project.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11385	The word is made by MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11386	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. - a violation of the dignity of the Assembly. The previous esteemed speaker can talk about something on the agenda, but he has really offended the dignity of this assembly, calling all MPs very nervous and recommending that we take gum for anxiety. Maybe it's better if we get some nervous gum than we get a sandwich that could poison half here, like some people in Krusevec got poisoned, so she's a sandwich maker later, or a sandwich store reregistered to someone's grandmother, if you know what I mean? So, for the anxiety of those who have been in power for 12 years and who want to erase from memory, from the memory of Serbian citizens, this period in which they did not renegotiate the country, did not destroy the economy, but destroyed everything that was preserved in spite of the wars, sanctions and all the troubles that this country was struggling with until 2000... (President: Mr. Todorovic, we can only talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, since you received your word on that basis. I thank you. So you should have given a warning to the previous speaker. Since you haven't, since you've allowed the previous speaker to speak on the escalator of this government, then you'll allow me to say something in the defense of this government and this government. You can't have double arches, because that's what you did the other day when the controversy between Mr. Stevanović and my smallness came into play. You interrupted the order of the replica when he had the last word and you wouldn't let me say anything in defense of the work of this government. What is important is that an attempt to peoratively express a member of the parliamentary minority on the presence of MPs at these sessions, to remind you, you, gentlemen of the DS, have introduced a practice of this work of parliament, and none of us will allow luxury to vote from the Bodrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11387	Time, Mr. Todorovic. Just to explain, Mr. Milivojevic was given the right to reply to Mr. Dejan Radenkovic's presentation, which he mentioned. I gave him the right to reply on that basis, but I didn't understand you, in the second part of the presentation you mentioned that I interrupted something and I didn't understand it very well. But, well, I'll probably do it next time. I ask all Members of Parliament to return to our discussion on the amendments. Here you go. Mr. Milivoevich, after the injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11388	Madam Chairman, I also believe that the injured member is 107. Rules of Procedure, because if someone advertises the Rules of Procedure, they can't advertise a menu. I didn't really understand what he was talking about, through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Todorovic, and it's true, I don't understand everything, I'm just a graduated agricultural engineer, I don't have to understand everything. But I know so much about the Rules of Procedure, and I can follow everyone's discussion in this room. I don't see why someone who exhibits anxiety has the right to be nervous and angry when told. There is no need to violate the Rules of Procedure on the work and dignity of this House in this way. If you're hungry, go down to the restaurant, don't quote us a menu here all the time and mention the sandwiches. I understand the physiological needs of each of you, but please take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11389	Thank you. It's interesting here that only I can hurt the Rules of Procedure, and you can't, so I would ask you to help me and really respect the dignity of this house. I'm really trying to be very patient with everyone. Use the right to replicate each other and there is no end. So I'd like to ask you to go back to the amendment debate, and if anyone wants to talk about the amendment, they can talk. If he does not speak of an amendment or benefit from an infringement of the Rules of Procedure in order to replicate it, I will use my right, and I will express the measures provided for by Article 108 below. So, Mr Dragan Todorovic signed up first. You can only talk about the amendment. I'm breaking up the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11390	The essence of this law and this amendment is in an attempt to resuscitate the catastrophic situation in the area of agriculture, especially in the rural areas of our country. Please warn Mr. Milivojevic not to throw it away, because if he is nervous or has physiological needs, please meet them elsewhere. So, the essence of both this law and this amendment is to improve the state of agriculture, especially in rural areas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11391	Mr. Todorovic, I must warn you. We're not at that point on the agenda, we've moved on to the second item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11392	I wanted to tell you that the essence of this law that was on the agenda, which is related to what we talked about a little bit, which was a situation in agriculture, which was disastrous and related to what Mr. Milivojevic was not clear about the poisoning that occurred in previous periods, especially in Kruševec, was connected to this catastrophic situation in agriculture. That's the essence of my exposure from earlier. I really don't think it's a waste to remind you of a catastrophic situation in all areas, even what we're talking about today on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11393	As you can see, Mr. Todorovic and I have been very tolerant of you, but I will remind you that on the agenda, the proposal for a law on statehood and the registration of a vessel, and we are done with agriculture. So I'm asking you all to follow together. Mr. Milivojevic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11394	I'm going to advertise 107, although I don't know which member of the Rules of Procedure I should advertise when the MP doesn't know what's on the agenda or when he's in the debate, and he doesn't know what he's talking about. Let's see if he knows what amendment and what law is on the agenda, and then we'll be clear. So much for the seriousness and respect of this home's dignity. An MP who doesn't know what the law is on the agenda, this assembly didn't see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11395	Thank you. We're going back to the debate after the amendment. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11396	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Chairman, I almost had blood. I've been holding the Rules of Procedure in this hand for half an hour and it's not worth it. I shall advertise Article 104 and Article 103(3). Article 104 says, if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name or name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. I respect that you favor the opposition. I respect that positive discrimination, but it's not right for me to have someone mention my name twice or twice on two occasions and say it almost offensively. I have to say, on the matter of those gums, I have a chronic sore throat. My throat's drying if I don't use it to help. I'm having trouble with the vocal cords. Just so it's known that someone wouldn't think that I was violating the Parliament's dignity by doing so. My personal health problems shouldn't concern other MPs. By the time it's over, I'm going to have to explain since the viewers are looking at us out of respect for them and other colleagues. As for Article 103. – The President of the National Assembly shall give a word to the People's Parliament, which shall indicate the infringement referred to in Article 1 immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed, by giving priority to the President of the Parliamentary Groups. No president of the parliamentary group asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure before me. That's what my colleagues can confirm and that I've asked for more than once. The galama and the insults we've suffered here, you haven't sanctioned. I'm not into such drastic measures towards the opposition. I'm not going to ask for a statement from the Parliament on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I would say to you well-intentionedly that in this favour of opposition MPs, we should still maintain some measure, given that we are sitting here too, and we have to endure all this. For everything else, I have to say that I am not an expert in the area that should be called Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. There's someone I can't help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11397	Thank you. With regard to your remarks that I have not given someone the right to reply, I will remind you of the provision of Article 104 to use the rights laid down in Articles 1 and 2 of this article to be decided by the President of the National Assembly. It gives me the right to give or not give someone a claim to a replica. Mr. Shane, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11398	Just to remind you, I probably don't understand the same thing, but I think it says here that the time for reading and quoting the Rules of Procedure is not counting in time, and you were Mr. Marijan Rističević when he immediately told the past two minutes to stop, and he was quoting the Rules of Procedure for about 30 seconds. There's obviously a broken Rules of Procedure. That's one thing. The second thing, three times in a row, someone in those lines commented, threw, and that's not allowed in the Rules of Procedure, and you didn't react. Third thing, if someone's walking, is it nervous or nervous when someone's patiently waiting and then commenting? I'd like you to teach me these three things. It's possible I don't get it very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11399	Since I'm a young MP, I'll try to explain myself. As regards the quotations of the Rules of Procedure, that is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. That might have been in the old Rules of Procedure. However, the new Rules of Procedure do not contain a provision that the time when a text is quoted does not enter at a time that is rejected. So you're wrong about that, unfortunately. As for the walk, I really can't forbid anyone to walk. I'm also trying to make sure that whoever logs in to see him and that when someone advertises the Rules of Procedure gets the word. If I look at the other side, I can't see at that point that someone raised their hand and please, you can say it's the Rules of Procedure and we'll probably hear it. As far as throwing goes, you're right. It's my duty when it comes to throwing on any side to come and warn. While you're talking, I'm trying not to disturb you or deny you that time. You're absolutely right about that. No one has the right to throw as the speaker speaks. I may have to apply this institution a little more often. Anyone else want a word by amendment to Article 55? MP Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11400	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, the words of my fellow Members who have often used in the previous assembly and that sentence is – the first 20 years are very difficult in the opposition and after that you will get used to it. Somehow as in life and politics, the wheel of happiness turns, and so did His words and writings, and that sentence came back and went round and round about the head of the One who created it. I believe that the previous statements of colleagues from the opposition are due to a lack of agreement in the opposition functioning. I know the job of the opposition is pure criticism, criticism often and weather forecasts, but what they can't count on is collective amnesia. We can do things and forgive, to forget we can't. I cannot accept this kind of mistrust, primal mistrust, in some things, in some projects run by the SNS during the pre-election period, when most of these candidate projects, which are why it was granted a mandate from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the elections and completed in just six months of functioning by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What about the previous period? (President: Mr. Granny, since you're replicating, time's up. This is the replica you're talking about. ) What about the previous period, when 200,000 jobs were promised, when investments were promised, when the corridors were completed, when much was promised and none of them were done? The Serbian Progressive Party has promised, I end this, the fight against crime and corruption, and no one in Serbia can dispute that. We promised a new law on public procurement, we adopted it. We promised more investment, here are investments, and they don't suit you. Please, the SNS's current divisions in the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been running that you must trust the representatives of the SNS in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11401	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, replica? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11402	There is no blank trust, Mr. Babic, especially with the parties of the ruling coalition. Everything you've listed, I've listened very carefully to you now, at the end of what you've listed, what's done. The only truth is that you really started fighting corruption and crime. That fight isn't over, that's what your president says. That fight will be over the moment there are judgments. Therefore, do not say in advance that all things are fulfilled. You've still got time to fill in, and no one's gonna bother you. But don't say it; it's done. Don't say we're against investment. I don't know what investments we're talking about. This isn't investment. We reminded you of the promises made regarding a concrete project called the Channel, which has been a long project for 100 and a few years, as a project, as an idea, with the previous government doing a feasibility study, or as it is already called, which has shown that this project is impossible to implement without enormous funds. Then, logically, we asked – why Minister Bačević was going to be in charge, so he told us he was going to be in charge. He made an official statement about it. Then he said, "I'm not going to be in charge, we're going to make a memorandum of understanding, but they don't seem to understand each other." That's what this is about. The truth works for citizens, too, so don't say that the previous government made a promise that she didn't keep. Don't let it be, let it be. Your balance will only be seen by the citizens. I repeat, it's not in the work of speaking in the final form, as if you've done something. Investments are almost zero. At this point, borrowing is huge. Inflation's huge, the deficit's even bigger. Unemployment is the biggest in Europe. There's no office for quick answers. There's not a bunch of things you promised. Only seven agencies have abolished 200 and something. Don't. (President: Time, Mr. Stefanovic. We know what was wrong with our government. You don't need to remind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11403	Thank you. I remind Members of the People's Parliament, there is a debate on the proposal for a law on statehood and the registration of vessels, in particular. I ask the People's Messengers to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, to return to the subject. Mr. Babic, would you like to talk about the amendment? You won't help me. [[Zoran Babiæ, from the place: No, I want a replica, as I am directly mentioned.]] Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11404	I agree, in one part, and that part is that this government of the Republic of Serbia, with six months, is at the beginning of certain things. Of course I agree with Mr. Aleksandra Vukic, who is a personification of the fight against crime and corruption, and no one can argue and no one challenges Serbia, that we are at the beginning of the process. But at the beginning of that process, we have proven that there is no, from the world of politics, from the world of business, not from the world of estherada, not anywhere, no matter how powerful, no matter how large, no matter how safe, no matter how safe we are so far. I just want to put one thing in the right place in Serbia, I think that's what the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are looking for. In order for a thing to be criticised, it has to start with a sentence – here, we do this. You can't criticise the borrowing because the new responsibilities that were, were to reprogram the old ones that made the previous governments. You can't say -- why you're in debt, if, on the other hand, Belgrade's 50 million-long town of 2008, has now grown with interest to 800m euros and some million euros. Show and say, "Here's how we're better, so we can criticise something else." But from this pay phone and from a pay phone in that hall of the Serbian Parliament there many times so far, promises have been expressed, even on Mr Djelic's dates when we will join the EU, and this government of the Republic of Serbia, which shares and promotes the European path of the Republic of Serbia, has done more in these six months than the previous government has done in four years. (President: Time. ) It is a certificate that we receive daily from the international community.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11405	Thank you. Mr. Shain, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11406	I want to warn you of article 103 and get back to the case where you told me I was wrong. In Article 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Articles 103, it is said that the MP is obliged to specify a member rather than quote it. Citing a member is not a replica, it's an abuse. The same member speaks further - in the case referred to in Article 7(1), the President of the National Assembly shall be obliged to use the time used by the MP by abuse of the right of the position of the 1st member, subtracting from the total time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda, if his parliamentary group remains time. So, you're quoting, which is part of the abuse, you've had to deny the total amount of time, and for a pure replica to give it two minutes. Please interpret as a whole. You probably know what it means to interpret rights in general, therefore, please pay attention to that. I read this and it says it. You can convince yourself how you want to do it, but I read that abuse is denied by the time of the parliamentary group, and the chairman should, as soon as he feels abuse, end it. So unless you've broken up, and someone has abused it, then you have the right and obligation to deny it to him from the time of the parliamentary group. If you didn't notice that it was an abuse, then it's really not my fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11407	Mr. Shane, I don't agree with your interpretation at all. I'll read the article you listed one more time. You have specified Article 103(4). (Srjan Shane, from the scene: I'm not attitude 4, I've read it a little further. This is not point 4.) You're starting at Section 4. - The MP is obliged to indicate which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the conduct of the President of the National Assembly and to explain what the infringement is, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. You now mention to me the quote, that now this attitude means that if the MP quotes something, it means he is not denied time from the parliamentary group. So that's your free interpretation. If you are not satisfied with my interpretation, you have the right to contact the committee responsible for interpretation and you will receive it in writing. If you want the National Assembly to come forward in the day to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you can tell if you want to. Do you want the National Assembly to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) Therefore, in the day of voting, the National Assembly will declare its violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Babic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11408	I'm sorry to abuse the Rules of Procedure, but I believe you'll be pleased that I'm going to abuse the Rules of Procedure. I'm referring to article 106. In order to better discuss and bring an end to today's debate, the Serbian Progressive Party will give up further calls to the Rules of Procedure or further replicas, of course, unless we are called and therefore I ask all other parliamentary groups to enter the regulated course of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11409	I thank you, Mr. Granny. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic has his word. Would you like to discuss the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11410	I will give up the right to the replica, because I will accept the appeal of my colleagues, Babic, because I really want to go back to the amendment. Most of the MPs in the hall probably forgot what amendment it was and what law it was, even the MPs forgot what law we were talking about, so I think I'll respect my fellow Babic's appeal, because he's probably proposing it because of the MPs who forgot what law we're discussing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11411	I thank all the MPs, for helping me to continue our work in this session, just as it suits all of us. So if no one wants a word on this amendment, we move on to the next amendment. The 62nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Markovic submitted together to the 100th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11412	I'm sorry, maybe I didn't hear and this discussion was very diverse, I didn't hear you read the amendment to Article 62. I'm sorry, but I'd still like to, so if you'd like to take my time from an authorised representative, I'd like to refer to the amendment to Article 65(1). It's a chapter where you talk about applications and suggestions. By amendment to Article 65, we propose that paragraph 1 be deleted. (President: Mrs. Banovic, you mean Article 62) No, 65. (You have not submitted an amendment to Article 65, nor have you submitted an amendment to Article 65.) I've put up with it, I even have an opinion... (President: Then you're right. I don't have an amendment to article 65 in the material. We'll have to consult... Then you and the Service became engaged in this interesting discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11413	You're right I missed it. I thought you were talking about article 62, which I read. I don't have an amendment to article 65, but I'm asking the Professional Service to provide me with an amendment to Article 65. When I get the material, I'll give you my word. If you want, you can talk about the amendment to Article 100. Please, I'll give you your time back, so sign in again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11414	All right, we'll go back to that amendment to Article 65, as you say. So we must have submitted because we have the proposal's opinion, but unfortunately the amendment is not accepted. Now I'm going to talk about the next amendment. That amendment concerns Article 100. I'm not going to explain a few next amendments. That's the part of the law I spoke about in detail when there was a debate in principle. Here we have a large number of members and attitudes in this law that are not understood. They're very vague. In the discussion in principle, I was saying that I was under the impression that some computer program was used here to translate from English into Serbian, because such sentences are long, incomprehensible, you don't know what the subject is, what the object is. I couldn't even propose amendments to make those members comprehensible because I really didn't understand them. Perhaps the promoter thought it was some kind of provocation coming from the opposition MPs, but it really wasn't. So, just to draw attention to these and such members, I said, in the light of the amendments, that I would ask the Proposer to take advantage of the possibility that, when the debate has already begun in particular, in principle, he would ask the parent board to submit an amendment to that article. As far as I can tell, the promoter didn't take advantage of that note of mine, so they could do it. Even in the answers I received, it seemed that the promoter was offended. Some arguments that he gave me a little... You say you're not, all right. We didn't understand each other, and I'm afraid the members won't understand those people who are destined to comply with this law. These few subsequent amendments, which predict the erasure of such members, will only be read. Let's say that Minister Knezevic is neutral, he doesn't know the content of the law, will he understand these provisions that stand in this bill? Mrs. Vojić Markovic and I are proposing to delete the 100th article, which is the position 2, if foreigners have to return the original documents that are attached, they return to the foreigners who have attached them. That's unusual.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11415	Anyone else want a word about the amendment to article 100? Because of the record, I got the amendment material on Article 65. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 65th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11416	Thank you. This is such an attitude where the promoter tries to explain what it is when something is filed within the time limit, and what it is when something is not submitted within the time limit, and it is a submission related to a deadline... I'll read why we suggest erasing. When the submission is bound by the time limit laid down by the provisions of this law in the procedure for enrolment in the registers of ships, the submission shall be made within the time limit provided that it reaches the authority leading the register of ships before the expiry of the time limit. So, you're telling us that something is only in time if it arrives within a certain time limit. Of course, that's understood. Then you tell me that it is not accepted for the reason that this would remain an unsettled issue of starting and ending the deadline for submission. You didn't set that deadline. This is one senseless attitude, and that is why we suggest that it be deleted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11417	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 125 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted joint amendments to Article 137. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11418	This amendment again. An example of which I wanted to draw my attention to some incomprehensible provisions of this bill. So today, I am a little sorry that there is no Minister Mrkonjic, who, when I spoke about this, said he was familiar with our amendments and would accept them and that all these misunderstandings that appear in this bill would be removed. I'm sorry he's not here to ask him why the bill promoter didn't do it. I'll read what this article says. Therefore, the promoter did not accept the amendment to delete it, did not submit any amendments to make this article more understandable. So this is going to stay this way and this is going to be adopted by this congregation with all these members. This is Article 137. If the prosecutor has not been duly informed of the permit of the entry, which he contests, the right to file a complaint for its erasure against third-party security persons, which have, under written law, acquired further rights entered, shall cease within three years of the time when the proposal for the killing of the book has arrived to the authority leading the register of ships. Dot. This is one sentence. Did you, Minister, understand what the writer meant?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11419	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 144 of the amendment, Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted their MPs together. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11420	Article 144 speaks of a note and this will be adopted in this bill when the Assembly votes this law in this form. Now I'm going to read it again, so I hope someone will understand. So, he says, the observation of the dispute in the case of an obsolescence suit or in the case of a claim for the determination of real rights due to maintenance, there is no fact against third parties who, relying on the register, have achieved a certain registration before the proposal for the observation of the dispute arrived to the authority leading the register of ships. That's one sentence. Another sentence – if the judicial verdict found that the prosecutor acquired a certain real right by maintaining the right, the right acquired by maintaining the right has the primary order before all registrations that were carried out after the notice of the dispute, and all rights entered after the notice of the dispute, which are in contradiction with that, will be deleted on the party's proposal. That was a second sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11421	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Dragan Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11422	I have to agree with the conclusion that in this proposal for a law on state-ownedness and vessel registration, a lot of things have been formulated in a very complex way, which may have made it possible for people who are not exactly in the profession, and given that few experts from the field of vessel registration and state belonging to those vessels and between us in Parliament. I have to say that it might have been important to, say, dismember one such complex member as this Article 144, but a little more careful analysis of these too long sentences, which perhaps DS experts understand a little bit better, because they're experts at everything and everything. So let's just say that here's the thing about the note of the dispute, not just the notation, which really doesn't have the right to fact against third parties, and it really should have been dismembered. However, if we are now entering the legal order of the text, perhaps several of these too long sentences could be drawn from these too long sentences, or perhaps this member could be divided into several members under a), b) and c). The essence of this article is to note the dispute in the case of an expropriation suit. If there is one such legally complicated case, as stated in this article, it is explained to this member what would have happened and that it has no right to maintain, more specifically that the right acquired by maintenance has the right to enroll before all entries that were made after the notice of the dispute. So it had to be broken down, and it had to be a little bit more explained. However, I think it's simply the kind of member that needs to be found in the law and that this should still remain, perhaps in a slightly different form, but for now I don't think it's disputed that such a member should remain in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11423	Thank you. The word is Mr. Stefanovic, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11424	I give up.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11425	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11426	Thank you. I agree there are few experts in this area. I'm certainly not that kind of person. I don't know if it's you. So an expert on this area would be a lawyer who has some kind of specialization or knows maritime law very well. I don't even think there's one here either. I believe, and you must agree with me, that we are adopting certain bill proposals, and we will also adopt this one even though there are no experts among us in this area, but when the law is passed here, it will be published in the Official Messenger, it must be understood to the people who will read it. Perhaps this law will want to read and be used by someone who is not an expert in this area. So, from this home, at least I think, there should be understandable laws and understandable members. You yourself said that this article had to be dismembered and I am pretty clear on what the promoter was going to say. You're saying it could split up and I agree. I don't know if you've heard me explain these submitted amendments, but Mrs. Vojic and I have suggested that the member be deleted. However, in an explanation, if the proposer reads it, it is said – it is proposed to delete the members because it is completely incomprehensible. We believe that the Government, as the legislator of the law, should submit amendments to the National Assembly on Article 137 in order for it to be understood and clear. These amendments were an invitation to the legislator to make these members more understandable. There is now a mechanism to do so. That's what the parent board does, and we vote here, etc. So it wasn't her intention to erase this. Of course it's clear to me that some things you can't leave out of some law, but they're incomprehensible and you have to agree with me that if we adopt some bill, then it really has to be understood.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11427	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11428	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, there are many nice folk proverbs in our Serbian language, and one of them says, "I am not sworn by my mother for gambling, but by my extraction." You know, when someone wakes up at half a session and remembers what the law is on the agenda and then takes it to discuss the amendment without even knowing what the amendment is saying, they're free of it. Mrs. Banovic, I will certainly support this amendment of yours, because I think it is really a useful amendment that improves the text of the law, on the one hand, and on the other hand, you have made really important lexic remarks and have significantly improved the quality of this law. I am on it as a citizen of Serbia, if this law will be applied, very grateful. Whether we have maritime law experts in the DS or not, whether we know everything or don't know anything, at least we know what law is on the agenda. In that context, I say, I will vote in favour of this amendment of yours, as well as those of the previous amendments I promised to vote for. Once again, who doesn't know what the law is on the agenda, let him read these proverbs that say, "I don't swear on my mother for gambling, but on taking it out." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11429	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by MP Marijan Rističević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment does not comply with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, in Article 185 paragraph 1 after point 18, point 19) is added, which reads: "If he does not make an entry in accordance with Article 55(5), in addition to the fine provided for in this article, he will also be prosecuted for the criminal act of fraud under the Criminal Code." So, it's about my previous amendment that I asked for the yachts of these rudely wealthy to be registered in our country and that they pay taxes, given that it's almost negligible to them, since they've taken too much from this country and it would be good for them to return something. It is known that Bill Gates of 66 of his billion earned on Microsoft, fairly earned, decided not to pay 95% back to the poor, but to share 95% of his money on the Microsoft project. We have billionaires who don't think of giving anything back to the people. At this point, thanks to one regime, a partner society that has left the government, which has made public functions and public affairs private businesses, we have several thousand wealthy, several dozen rudely wealthy and several million or seven million completely poor people. With this amendment and the previous amendment, I want that if not by law, then in some other way like Russia, we bring justice and bring the knowledge of the rights to those who, at the time when everyone was losing money, are very rich, because today we have people who eat and we have people who don't know what to do with money, who buy yachts more than tens of meters long, so almost like a football field. It must once be put in the way and this proposal of my amendment is certainly feasible. I'm not sure if it's part of the Double Tax Act, since they're registering these yachts in some white world states, I don't know if these international agreements, the agreements we've made and whether they're related to this issue. I'll admit that as a farmer, I don't know all the things, but I'd like you to boast like this, rude, recklessly taxed, and to have something return to this poor woman from what's been taken over the past 12 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11431	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11432	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, I will certainly vote as a member of the DS for this amendment. I expect the ruling majority to also show solidarity with the applicant for the amendment and also to show that it is with him in principle and to vote in favour of this amendment. No matter what this amendment has, it has several illogicalities. The first is, Europe means free flow of goods, services and material goods. Such an amendment provides for double registration, because if a yacht is on which the leaders of some political parties are photographed in pre-election campaigns in Monte Carlo. That's what one MP group in the last term was showing here. If they have registered yachts and companies in Monte Carlo, then how will the yacht register in Belgrade or Stalac, what did I suggest? I don't see the legal basis for one vessel being registered in two countries, as much as I love Serbia. On the other hand, I'm undermining the insurance problem again. How are we going to solve the insurance problem that is mandatory for such vessels because the world's insurance companies have great mistrust in this government as soon as they don't allow these yachts to be secured here. So, a sign of trust in one country is a permit for insurance companies to register certain material goods in that country and the possibility that owners of these material goods can collect their insurance premiums. Speaking of amnesia, new and old, you know, thank God, I don't have amnesia, so I know there's no new ones here. Some were in power in this country in 1998, 1999, 2000, and some were from 2000 to 2003, and then some were from 2003 to 2007, but no one in this room was hanging at home on the goblet, so father and mother took him off in 2012 and brought him to this hall to be new, washable and never to exercise power in this country. Whatever parliamentary group here to look at, the Malteses all participated, not all of them, but all of the political parties at some point participated in the exercise of power. Some have changed their name, I'm a graduate engineer for agriculture and livestock, so if you have a white cow that gives five liters of milk, so call it a charm, she won't give 20 liters of milk and then that experience speaks from me. So, I can't forget that experience since I've been in power before, and that's why I have no confidence, but I'm going to vote for this amendment. Once again in the end, I didn't really know you had a problem with loud wires, I apologize, I'll never mention Orbit gum again. Really, I didn't know it was a problem of this kind, I didn't think it was some other habit, and I really apologize as an DS MP, respecting the code of conduct in this house, I really didn't know you had that problem with the vocal cords, so I'm not going to mention it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11433	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic, do you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11434	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I didn't know that members of the former regime would be this excited about a few amendments. I said I wasn't sure that I was 100% professional in this area, so I admitted that there might be shortcomings in these amendments, given the international agreements that may prohibit double taxation. So, if they reported those yachts there, if that's forbidden, I said there are other mechanisms and they're being brought in to pay some taxes to this country and make up for what they took from the poor. So I could also quote some Russian models that certain tycoons have been brought to justice, that is, how they have agreed to leave for the benefit of their citizens significant financial resources that have previously exhausted natural and other goods from the country of Russia. So the purpose of these amendments was for those who have become too rich in transition to return something to those who have become too poor. I really didn't know that my amendment would get so excited, especially the former regime, since I know that the president is their billionaire, I believe that's why. Their president dealt with the media, all the media failed, but his media firm earned billions. What I'm trying to say at the end is that we from the village are very unhappy because this media service, which helped that billionaire get rich, did not find it appropriate to carry the finals of Djokovic-Marey yesterday. So we don't have satellites and we don't all have networked cable channels. Most in the country see it through antennas and were denied one experience, for a little joy they could see in their home, that official RTS made it possible for them, and not because money was pumped out of it and given to a billionaire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11435	Thank you. The word was first reported by MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11436	There's a saying in Serbia that says -- a smart man learns from other people's mistakes, and those who aren't so smart, that I don't use any heavy connotation, learns from their mistakes. It is not clear to me that a colleague did not learn a lesson, and to call the right things by real names, all those images that were shown in this room in the previous session, were shown by the MPs of the SRS. How many Serbian citizens believed and believed in all these stories are the best evidence of May elections, where they did not cross the censorship and where they no longer exist. That's why I don't understand one masochistic tendency to go the wrong way, through what the Serbian citizens said -- we don't believe what you're saying, we don't believe what you're showing. I ask you once again to bring this debate into a normal course and a normal neighborhood, to turn to the future, not to celebrate more defeats, but to look at victories and to create these victories, not to build walls between us, but to, using full capacity, work in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11437	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11438	Of course this appeal is very positive and we accept it, I just think you should refer it to your MP. I think it is extremely incorrect and that you have violated the Rules of Procedure, Articles 106 and 107, because you have not warned an MP who is false on behalf of people who are not present. If someone's the only one who's lecturing certain tabloids that are being arranged from the center of power from political parties, we don't have to be polluted by it in this assembly. As chairman, you have to warn the speaker who makes two mistakes here - he accuses a man who is not present and presents lies, who are the subject of a court dispute now and, secondly, calls on a Russian model, and we haven't heard what model it is, but if he did, I would teach him to ask this government. Besides, this government has the capacity to implement it. Please, they just won't vote for your amendment. That's the problem, and we will. You don't see the problem with that? That's the problem. The problem is what's being said in the campaign and what's to be done. Where you work, you're thin. That's the problem. Otherwise, all the appeals for this debate to end as soon as possible are absolutely acceptable to us, just please, Mr. Babic, direct your criticism to your MPs, because then we do not need to enter these discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-28-0.u11439	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m.
