ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19277	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Nebojsa Stefanović, Momir Stojanovic, Dejan Rajčić, Slavica Saveljic, Branko Ružić, Gordana Komic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Donka Banovic. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. We move to a decision on the 1st point of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON BASAL EDUCATION AND ADVICE. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and incentivization, we move on to a decision. I put the draft law on basic education and education to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – 16, the abstentions – no, 24 of the 166 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the 1st amendment, the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment, MP Ana Novkovic submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 4th amendment, with a correction, the MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Komlenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 6th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 159 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 7th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total of 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total of 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by National MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total of 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 9th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 165 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one who is abstentioned—has voted 171 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 154 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajic, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Karolj Chizik. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 160, out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 147 out of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 13th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 14th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 17-nation MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 164, of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, v – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 156, of the total attendance of the 171 MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158, out of the 171 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 out of the 171 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title in front of Article 18 and Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 171 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 18th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 156, of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 156, of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajic, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Zarko Korac together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member and a new member of 18a be added after article 18a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 171 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 19th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158, out of the 171 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ana Novkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 19a be added after article 19a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 160, out of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 161 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 170, of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 out of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 162, of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168, of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155, out of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajic, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Zarko Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 163 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one with abstentions—has voted— 159 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 158 of the total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 156 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – there is no vote – 173 of the total attendance of the 173 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 30th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Olgica Batic, joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banović, MP Sasa Milenić and joint MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović and Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 137 of the total attendance of 175 Members of the people. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 157 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 167 of the 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 161 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one with abstentions – has voted – 165 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 24, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 152 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 159 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 168 of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 166 of the total of 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—172 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 165 of the total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 164 of all 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 163 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 37th Amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 165 of the total of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 37th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 154 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new title and a new member of 37a be added after article 37a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 153 of the total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 165 of the total of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 163 of the total attendance of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajic, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Zarko Korac together submitted an amendment proposing that a new member and a new member of 40a be added after article 40a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention – for - four, no one who is abstention – who has not voted – 169 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to article 41. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted – 168 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against those who are abstentions, has voted – 173 out of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted—164 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 162 of the 173 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 160 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 162 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ana Novkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 44a be added after article 44a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 162 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted—164 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 46th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted—164 of the 173 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 46th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivana Dinic and Zvonimir Stevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 171 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 46th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 160 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 47th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovici Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 162 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted the title above the 50th and the 50th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 161 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 51st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 153 of the total attendance of 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 51st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 165 of the total attendance of the 171 People's Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radoslav Komlenović submitted to the 54th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 155 of the total attendance of the 171 MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title in front of article 55 and article 55 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—12, against—no one with abstentions—has voted— 159 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for nine, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted—163 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted the amendment to Article 58. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted—164 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 60th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 61st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 21, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 62nd amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 167 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 63rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 67th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 167 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 68th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic, together with the MPs Gordana Komic and Maja Vidinović, and the National MP Aleksandar Pejčić, submitted to the 68th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 68th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 68th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 68th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric to article 71. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—four, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 168 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted the amendment to Article 73. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 162 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 75th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radoslav Komlenović submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 157 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 76th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VIII and the members of the 77th and 78th amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 77th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 78th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 18, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted together to the 79th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 80th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 84th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total attendance of the 171 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 85th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 86th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 88th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 88th Amendment was filed by the MP Vesna Jovicki. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 160 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 89th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 96th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 166 out of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 164 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 101st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 164 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment with the correction was submitted to Article 102 by MP Srdjan Shain. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 172 of the total of the 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 104 of the amendment, MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 164 of the 171 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to article 104 by MP Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 159 of the 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on basic education and education in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 116, v – 27, abstentions – no, 27 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on basic education and education. We move on to the second item of the agenda – Proposal for a CENTRAL EDUCATION AND DESCRIPTION Law since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on secondary education and education to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 115, against – 31, abstentions – no, 24 of the 170 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I doubt the quorum. In total, there are 170 MPs in the O.R., so there is a quorum for work. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill became amendments to the MPs: Saša Milenić and Mirjana Dragas in the same text to Article 9; Milice Vojić Marković to Article 9; Zlata Đerić to Art. 16 and 20; Donke Banović and Milice Vojić Marković in art. 19th and 50th; Saša Milenić and Miletic Mihajlovic in the same text as Article 31; Bojana Kostreš, Đorđa Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karol Čizik and Dragan Andric to Article 56; Milisava Petronivic, who is added after article 89, new Chapter VIII, subtitle and new Article 90; as well as amendments of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society to Art. 18, 34 and 55. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 142 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 2nd amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Olgica Batic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 3a be added after Article 3a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th amendment, with a correction, was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 157 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 156 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 154 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by the People's MP, Olena Papuga. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 154 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Karolj Chizik. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 157 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 153 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one with abstention - has voted - 161 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 152 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 9th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 155 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by Parliamentarians Dr Vladimir Marinkovic, Dr. Milorad Mijatovic and Branko Gogic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 154 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 152 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - six, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 153 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajic, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote - 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Vladimir Marinkovic, Dr Milorad Mijatovic and Branko Gogic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 12a be added after article 12. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 145 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 148 of the total 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against - no one with abstention - has voted - 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 150 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 148 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Janko Veselinovic submitted to the 17th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 150 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - seven, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - no one, with abstentions - has voted - 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivana Dinic and Zvonimir Stevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -16, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 142 out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 20th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -13, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 144 of the total 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 21st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - no one with abstentions - has voted - 148 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted together to the 24th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of Olena Papuga. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 153 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -11, no one, with abstentions, voted 146 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 28th amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 29 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Donka Banović, Milica Vojić Markovic and Aleksandar Pejčić, together Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic and Parliamentarian Olgica Batic, together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 23, no one, with abstentions, voted 137 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 147 of the respective 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 32nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Zarko Korac together submitted to the 33rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The title and article of the 34th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 146 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 36th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 36th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 38th amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none, with abstentions, voted 147 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 38th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović and Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 144 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 38th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 40th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 43rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 47th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 55th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 55th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 70th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 153 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 75th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 149 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted their MPs together to the 76th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 76th Amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 153 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by the People's MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 78th amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Djordjevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 85th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VIII and Articles 90 and 91 of the amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 148 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 90th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted their MPs together to the 91st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 145 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted their MPs together to the 93rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 93rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions—one, voted 152 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 94th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 94th amendment was submitted by MP Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law on secondary education and education in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 118, v – 25, abstentions – there is no vote, 16 of the total of 159 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a proposal for a law on secondary education and education. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE EDUCATION OF ADMINISTRATIVES As the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law on adult education to the vote, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 117 against – 22 abstentions – there is no, no vote – 19 of the total attendance of 158 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. An integral part of the bill's proposal became amendments to the MPs: Donke Banović, Milice Vojić Markovic and Aleksandra Pejčić to the members 1 and 19; Donke Banović and Milice Markovic to the members 3, 22, 40 and 42; Donke Banović to the members 9 and 15 and Snezana Stojanović to the members 17 and 21. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac submitted to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote – 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 148 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 148 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by the MPs Ljubica Milosevic, Slobodan Veličkovic and Slobodan Jeremic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 7, no one with abstentions has voted – 150 of the total of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 147 of the total 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 145 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstention – for – four, against – no one who is abstention – no vote – 156 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions who has not voted – 161 of the total presence of the 161 People's Messenger. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – no one with abstention – has voted – 153 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 159 of the total presence of the 161 Messengers. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 154 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there are no abstentions for – two, against – none, nor did he vote – 161 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 18th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 155 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 18th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – no one, the abstentioned – voted – 152 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 20th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 152 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 20th Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Veličkovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 8, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 155 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which proposed adding a new title and a new member of 27a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 7, against – no one with abstentions has voted – 156 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 154 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 33rd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 154 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 9, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 154 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted together to the 40th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 6, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 157 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 13, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 150 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 43rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 45th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted an amendment proposing the addition of a new title and a new member of 48a. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to the 49th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 50th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 57th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 64th Amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 161 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 65th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the bill on adult education in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – 20 abstentions – no, 22 of the 163 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on adult education. We are going over the decision on item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES ON THE BASES OF THE COURT OF EDUCATION AND DESCRIPTION As the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – 19, abstentions – there are no, 19 of the 163 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has adopted the draft law in principle and before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives is, on the basis of Article 163(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly rejected as incomplete amendments to Articles 7, 10 and 17. Bills submitted jointly by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on – Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure. The draft legislation has become an integral part of the amendments: Articles 1 and 2 submitted in the same text by the MPs Natasa Vukovic, the MPs Gordana Komic and Jovana Mehandzic together and the MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. To article 1 submitted by MP Donka Banovic. On Article 3, submitted jointly by the MPs Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. On the 3rd, submitted jointly by the MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. To article 10 with an amendment submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic. On article 10, with an amendment submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. To Article 12, submitted jointly by the MPs Elvira Kovač, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Pek, and to Member 31, who was submitted by MP Neđo Jovanovic, as well as amendments of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society to Articles 11, 19, 23 and 29. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Komlenović. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 2nd amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 154 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac together submitted the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for - four, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 155 of the total attendance of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Donka Banovic, joint MPs Balša Bozovic and Vladimir Gordić and joint MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 144 of the total attendance of 159 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 6th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 153 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 153 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radoslav Komlenović submitted to the 9th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 149 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 10th amendment in the same text, the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic, together with the MPs Balša Bozovic and Vladimir Gordić and the MP Zlata Djeric, together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 19, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was filed by MP Riza Halimi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olga Batic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Radoslav Komlenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 152 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Balša Bozovic and Vladimir Gordic, National MP Natasa Vuckovic, and joint MPs Gordana Komic and Jovana Mehandzic, submitted to the 11th amendment in the same text. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 163 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted to the 11th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 13th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Korac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 163 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The National MP Ljiljana Lucic submitted to the 16th Amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments with the correction together were submitted by the MPs Gordana Comic and Jovana Mehandzic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted together to the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 163 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 23rd amendment, MPs Balša Bozovic and Vladimir Gordić, National MP Natasa Vukovic and the joint MPs Gordana Komic and Jovana Mehandzic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one with abstentions—has voted 157 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Borislav Stefanovic I am putting the amendments to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 158 of the total attendance of 164 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted the 25th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted the 30th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, abstention – there is no vote of 160 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment, with a correction, was filed by MP Srdjan Shain. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 161 of the 163 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 34th amendment, in the same text, the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banović, together with the MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Pek, together with the MPs of the people, Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković, Prof. Dr. Janko Vesenović and Borislav Stefanović, together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 17, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 146 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Parliamentarians Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted together to the 42nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – seven, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 out of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 43rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Balsa Bozovic and Vladimir Gordic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 44th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total attendance of 163 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – 16, the abstentions – no, 21 of the 163 MPs were not present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the founding of an education and education system. We move to a decision on the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SCHOOLS ON STUDENT AND STUDENT STANDARD Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of the Bill's proposal in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on student and student standards in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 117 against – 11 abstentions – no, 29 of the 158 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment submitted to Article 3 together by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The People's MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the 2nd amendment, in the same text, the MPs together Donka Banović and Milica Vojić Marković and together Judita Popović, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Dr Zarko Koraić submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 155 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – 157 of the total attendance of the 161 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Mr Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for two, against—no one, the abstentioned—has voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 157 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milica Radovic submitted to the 4th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 157 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 157 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted the 7th amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 8th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - four, against - none, the abstentioned - did not vote 157 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 158 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 153 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on student and student standards, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 118, against – 16, the abstentions – there is no vote, 25 of the total of 159 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on student and student standards. We move to the sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Payments in State Organies and Public Services I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law supplementing the law on salaries in state authorities and public services, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, v – six, abstentions – no, 30 of the 158 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services. We move to the seventh item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INOVATION ACTIVITIES Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Innovation Activity, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – no one, with abstention – voted 35 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Mr Bozidar Djelic and Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic submitted to the 10th Amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on Innovation Activity, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one, with abstention – voted 37 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Innovation Work. We move to the eighth item of the agenda – Proposal for a TOPOGRAPHY OF POL-PRODUCT PRODUCTS I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote a bill on the protection of topography of semi-conductive products, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 38 of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the protection of the topography of semi-conductive products. We are moving to a decision on the ninth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Resolution on the Legislative Policy. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search, we move on to a decision. I put the motion for a resolution on legislative policy in principle. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 136, against - four abstentions - there is no, no vote - 18 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the motion for a resolution in principle. As the National Assembly accepted the motion for a resolution in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. National MP Srdjan Mikovic submitted an amendment with amendments to the name of the Resolution proposal and to certain parts of the motion for a resolution. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment with amendments to the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia and proposes to the National Assembly to accept this amendment with corrections. I'm putting the amendment proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstention – one, voted - 25 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. People's MPs Lasslo Varga, Balint Pastor, Elvira Kovac, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck together submitted an amendment to paragraphs 1 and 13. The motion for a resolution. I'm putting the amendment proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention - two, voted - 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The Government has submitted an amendment to paragraph 12. The motion for a resolution. I'm putting the amendment proposal to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 10, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted - 148 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the motion for a resolution in general. I put the motion for a resolution on legislative policy in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – five abstentions – there is no, no vote – 22 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a resolution on legislative policy in general. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. agreements (points 10, 11, 12 and 13 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts, mostly votes by all MPs. In view of the fact that amendments have not been submitted to those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Saradicity in the field of polyoprivredness, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 23 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Black Upper Authority of the Veterans, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 22 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Black Gore on Mutual Recognition and Acceptance of Evidence of the Fulfilling Conditions on Food and Food for Life of Plant, Mixed-Combined Origin, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 135, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 24 out of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting on the vote of the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Saradication in the area of Health Protection of Plants, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 138, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 20 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. We move to the 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION OF THE REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR SPECIFIC EDUCATION. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Council for Higher Education. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, has voted – 20 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Council for Higher Education. We are moving to the 15th point of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION on THE DISCUSSION OF THE NATIONAL CONSTITUTION COUNCIL MEETING MEMBER STATES. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the resolution of members of the National Educational Council. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the discharge of a member of the National Educational Council. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 26 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to dismiss members of the National Educational Council. We are moving to the 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION on the discharge and the appointment of a member of the Republic's Electoral Commission. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, also performs other electoral powers. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the resolution and appointment of the deputy member of the Republic Election Commission, who was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 133, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted – 24 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Republic Election Commission, who was submitted by the SNS parliamentary group. We move to the 17th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE DECISION ON THE CONSTRUCTION OF CONSTRUCTIONAL DELEGATION OF THE NATIONAL COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA IN THE INTERNATIONAL PARLAMENTARY INSTITUTIONS. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137, no one, with abstentions, voted 19 of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. We move to a decision on the 18th item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE Deputy MEMBER STATE OF THE PEOPLE'S COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA. I am voting on the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 140, no one, with abstentions, voted 16 of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Bojan Đuric, at a session on June 12th 2013, at 16.20 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – seven, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 149 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Nada Kolundžija, at a session on June 18, 2013, at 1900 hours, pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 11, against – no one, with abstention – voted 144 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 18 June 2013, at 19.05 p.m., pointed to an injury. 106, 107, 108, 109, 110 and 111. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 12, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 144 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Nada Kolundžija, at a session on June 18, 2013, at 7:15 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 19 June 2013, at 10.35 p.m., pointed to a violation of Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 147 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Judita Popovic, at a session on 19 June 2013, at 12.05 p.m., pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Marijan Risticevic, at a session on 19 June 2013, at 12.10 p.m., pointed to an injury. 103rd and 109th. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – eight, abstentions – there are no, 143 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Neđo Jovanovic, at a session on 19 June 2013, at 17.17 p.m., pointed to an injury. 27 and 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for—nine, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 145 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision-making by them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. (The session is closed at 14.05 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19278	THE REPUBLIC OF THE SERBIAN COMMUNITY OF THE COURT STENOGRAPHICAL TEXT The seventh extraordinary session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 25 June 2013 (The session began at 14.05 p.m. Vesna Kovac, vice president of the National Assembly, chaired the session. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19279	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 122 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the National Assembly. Given that today is Tuesday, I ask if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, would like to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is from MP Zika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19280	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question is to ask the Prime Minister and the Police Minister, Mr Dacic. I've got information in my hands whose source is B92. The news says that the Italian police and financial inspectors seized the records of 41 football clubs, including 18 A clubs, that's their first league. As the media conveys, it is a major co-ordination as part of an investigation into money laundering, financial malfeasance and tax fraud. A police spokesman has confirmed that the inspectors have entered 18 clubs of their first 20 club league. My question to the police minister is – when will the police finally deal with the situation in our football and when will the people who have washed through football at least suspect capital come? When will the police finally examine the work of clubs, financials and club presidents who run these clubs? If we don't get an answer to this question, or if this situation continues in clubs, as it has lasted for 20 years, and perhaps several years in our country, nothing else can make us think beyond being protected in this way by criminals who are in the largest clubs in our country, but they also seem to be protecting political public figures sitting, working and working with these criminals in our clubs. My second question is to the Ministry of Finance, and it's about restitution. Yesterday, a major shift was made when it came to restitution. Mrs. Jelisavetti Karadjordjevic has returned the property. In fact, it's a villa called "Montenegro", owned by their family, a family that took out Prince Paul, one of the most clever people in our history. However, I must say that all those who expect a restitution to correct one of the greatest injustices in our past are disappointed that in this way, restitution is carried out selectively. Of course, there is neither the fault of Princess Jelisavet nor the fault of the churches that are under the former law on the return of property to religious communities were privileged to receive only property, but it is the bad law that this state has passed and that is still not corrected when it comes to the return of property to all our citizens who have suffered injustice after World War II. In this way, there is a classic discrimination against all those who have been citizens of the second order for many years and who have not yet recovered their property. The only way to correct that is to include substitution in the Restitution Act. My question to the Ministry of Finance is when will he finally call on the SPO and DHSS parliamentary group to give them a bill that rightly solves one of the biggest problems in our history? My third question is, in fact, by appealing and repeating something I said a few days ago, which is the agony that is still happening at the battery factory in Sombor, agony and atmosphere among the employees who are in front of the heat. I'll just say that since my last public address, when it comes to this topic, 100 workers have been fired by that company. Workers from other cities are being brought in. Of course, threats remain one of the most important things that happens when it comes to those workers who disagree with the current situation in the company. During that time, the employer refuses any conversation with the employees. Inspectors who should have gone out in the field a long time ago, who are still under DS control, whose financier took over this firm, do not want to go out on the field and do what they expect when it comes to the profiles of their work. My question is also the Minister of Police - what's next, how long will these oligarchs and tycoons be tolerated? Today we have the opportunity to see only one means of information that they have the opportunity to sell their assets for 1.2 billion euros. So 1.2 billion euros is the value of the property these tycoons own, and in companies that are under their control, people are on the street, without the basic means of living for them and their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19281	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19282	Thank you, Madam Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, these days are widely spoken and written in public and media about the majority of the Slovenian Mercator action package by the Croatian company Agrokor, Mr. Todorovic. With this takeover, Agrokor will receive, as one of the trade chains, in addition to the existing "Idee" despite the already existing "Rode", close to 300 retail facilities on the Republic of Serbia's market. Along with this Delez, which is the second, the first largest trade chain, which already has after the takeover of the "Maxia" 365 retail facilities, only those two retail chains will have over 700 retail facilities. By doing so, more than 70% of the trade market in the Republic of Serbia will be occupied. Only Agrokor will have 36%. Here are the consequences of such a monopoly position. First of all, the Competition Protection Act is violated, because these two chains and how the market will have a much more dominant position than the law, which is 40 and 50%, if two trade chains are allowed. The other problem that will arise is significantly less products and goods originating in Serbia from the domestic market. And now we have in these trade chains mostly 70% of the products, that is, products originating in the countries of origin. Of course, these trade chains from Slovenia and Croatia did not come to Serbia to develop Serbian economy, but they came to develop their domestic, or parent economy, and that is quite normal for them. Thirdly, both Mercator and Idea lost in their business last year. I'm surprised they didn't win. Whether or not to pay the profit tax is yet to be discussed, but certainly the consequences of covering these losses, when the time comes, will also be much more significant for domestic consumers. My question is addressed to the Minister of Trade and the Competition Protection Commission, which is primarily responsible for its work to the National Assembly and which is obliged to monitor the conditions of competition on the market, to prevent the monopoly and to propose certain regulations and measures that we need to discuss here. So the question is - what measures will be taken to prevent market monopolies and protect competition, in order to prevent domestic trade chains, in order to prevent domestic producers and domestic suppliers? Why, even though some administrative barriers were lifted when the trade law was amended and complemented, when other trade chains were to come here and create competition on our market, such as the German Lidl, which has been waiting for years to come here, did not happen and we only have the monopolization of these two trade chains? If the competent, primarily the Ministry of Trade and the Competition Protection Commission, which is obliged to react to this takeover by the Croatian company Agrokor, does not do anything, it is obvious that our domestic trade chains will have to do something on their own. Among other things, they founded the DTL, namely the Home Trade Chain, which primarily aims to protect domestic trade, to reach a domestic producer at affordable prices and, more importantly, to buy from a domestic producer and from a domestic supplier from Serbia. Of course, there is a public debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Competition Act, and this is the case with these members who are treating the dominant position of market participants. We expect that there will be a quality improvement in the public debate, and we will wait here in the Assembly for this bill and for the problem of competition and monopoly on the domestic market to talk very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19283	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19284	Dear Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, except for the SNS MPs, who have succeeded in an incredibly deleted flight in five seconds to leave the room, my question has been addressed to the Prime Minister. Today, as I hear it, the government unanimously adopted the 2013 Budget Rebalance proposal at the very end of the first half of the year, as Serbia has for years two budgets per year, summer and winter. Even after adopting such a scandalous rebalancing, which is expected within a week or a few days, will you ever again have the courage to ask the President of the Government of Dacic, the first Vice President of Vukic, in fact their political parties, have the courage, the courage and the face to say that you did not know how much lies and lies in the budget, i.e. the budget rebalancing and quietly explain how guilty the party is, or the minister who runs the portfolio of finance and economy? As we told you in October 2012 that you lie, cheat and steal on the 2013 budget, and today, on June 25, we tell you that you lie in budget rebalancing, that none of what you predicted as income and almost none of what you predicted as expenditure is true. In fact, my key question is -- why aren't you once honest with this country and why don't you tell her that you're making a budget rebalance that will last until the beginning of autumn, and then you'll push the country into new elections? The rebalancing that will appear before this parliament in a few days' time is the electoral rebalance of the budget. Besides being electoral, he is also a triumph of alchemy over normal economic policy. You are, in fact, the only government in the world that solves the 215 billion-euro deficit problem and boasts that it solves it, as it claims, and we will prove that it cheats and lies, that it will save about 40 billion euros. Does the Prime Minister, for example, in the style of his famous text published a few days ago in "Today", explain to me - what kind of alchemy 40 billion euros will save the problem of 215 billion euros in deficits that we will have in 2013, thanks to the absolutely wrong tax policy that you are conducting and the absolutely unrealistic budget that you all adopted at the end of last year? I asked a similar question about three weeks ago, and I received a reply from Minister Mladjan Dinkic in the meantime. The answer has three sides. The only thing relevant is that the minister says my claim that Serbia is on the verge of bankruptcy, and then all numbers before and after prove that Serbia is on the verge of bankruptcy and the last sentence says – and besides, a new rebalancing will be proposed. Why does a country that's not on the verge of rebalancing have the need to adopt a new rebalancing? The second question is will you finally give up the tax policy that kills every atom of life, private initiatives and business activity in this country? Today, the tax administration's data came out saying that in 42% of the control cases of economic operators are found to be non-respectable through fiscal cash registers, i.e. the obligation to issue fiscal accounts. This is the result of your economic policy. You're pushing half the population and half the economy into crime. In time, we have shown you that when you raise more than any tax and other taxes in this country, you will not increase tax revenues, but you will increase the grey economy and smuggling and that is what is happening today and therefore you have to adopt a rebalancing proposal, which is scandalous in several ways, as I have already said. It's absolutely amazing to me that, after a few months of announcement of root reforms, you go the same way that many before you did. Desktop makeup and budget maintenance until next election. And what are you going to do after that? (President: Time. ) Do you have any face to tell children that they failed the math test and that their math results are not valid and that at the same time you claim that 40 billion is equal to 215 billion?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19285	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19286	My question is to Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and Justice Minister Selakovic, also to the judicial authorities of this country, the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office, to explain how it is possible in one legal state, in which there is a law, in which there are some kind of written rules, that the former Mayor of Leskovec, Slobodan Kocic, is again, by decision of the Court of Appeal, extended detention for another two months, on the grounds that he is doing so because the two remaining perpetrators of the crime are on the run, and the police cannot come to them, but that is why he can influence witnesses. This is one of the, I think, unique cases in the European judiciary, where it shows how much our country is in the judicial system, so-called. The reform of judicial reform slipped to the lowest branches. One man who's been incriminated, based on his signature, is held in custody just because he can't influence, which could affect witnesses the police can't find. They want to say that this man is probably more powerful than the Serbian police and the Serbian state, which is a complete non-sension and total disgrace of this state and this judiciary, in today's situation where the citizens of Leskovci collect signatures for his free, when that man sits completely innocent in custody, when there is no significant evidence that incriminates him, except for a decision he signed as mayor. My question is to the Prime Minister – are you preparing the same thing for the other mayors who sign anything that comes to their desk? Will you, like in Batajnica, arrest an entire municipal council for voting for a decision? Where exactly are you taking this country, in which direction? In the direction of one-mindedness and dictatorship. Slobodan Kocic is a victim of self-will, an arbitrary view of the legal system, a decision to punish one man because he is from one party. It's unrecorded, it's inadmissible, it's mocking the judiciary, it's insolent. What will the Minister of Justice tell us when he presents us with a strategy today? Whether this strategy will be – we will see to it that we arrest anyone who is expected to talk about DS and deal with it. Do you really think this country should go that way? How many people are you going to harass and keep innocents in jail? What do you expect from this people? The second question, the president of the Republic said that recently this country was run by drug dealers, that they lined up the police and the state top, and that it was scandalous to live in a country where Saric was rich. My question to the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, and especially to the police minister, is – arrest those drug dealers who are being told by the president as soon as possible, bring in those people who ordered the then and current police minister Dacic and the police director Veljovic, bring in those people who will confirm that during Boris Tadic's time, except for foreign policy activity, the Serbian presidency did nothing else, but by arresting Darko Saric. It's a shame. How dare someone make such statements? What kind of country do we live in, gentlemen? In a country where the tabloids announce arrests, of which there is nothing, without any evidence, in a country where the opposition is not in any media, where we can only contact citizens through this assembly. Is this Serbia, newer, safer, appreciated, offered by you, Mr Minister, Prime Minister, President of the Republic? You know drug dealers ran this country. Tell me who these people are. The last question is for the Minister of Education. When are you going to resign, Mr. Obradic, given that you have committed an unprecedented scandal in our education. Our education is completely ruined. The children were faced with tests that were released for sale. Some printery worker should get hurt, and your tabloids are publishing it, because it was breathing the same air as the DS that was in power. It's a shame where you run this country. I'm sorry, I don't have anyone to talk to, because the advancers left the O.R. flat, all of them, left the O.R. I think this is the bottom where you brought Serbia. (President: Time. ) I think it is high time to explain why Minister Obradovic yells at the Committee, raises his voice, threatens them and asks the majority MPs not to provide the quorum at the session at which he is to answer in front of this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-25-0.u19287	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda set out in the request of 141 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I invite you to attend today's session: Sasa Janković, Citizens' Protector, with associates; Prof. Dr. Neven Petrusic, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, with Associates; Stanojla Mandić and Aleksandar Resanovic, Deputy Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a five-minute break. I ask all MPs to return to the O.R. to decide on a merger. [[after breaks]] Dear People's MPs, please, to continue the session to determine the quorum. The honourable Members of the Parliament are present with 120 MPs, taking into account the record of the presence of MPs in the hall. In view of the need to decide on the merger of the debate where most of the total number of MPs are required to work, we will continue tomorrow at 1200 hours. Thank you.
