ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29218	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Vuk Jeremic and Cedomir Protic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representative of the proposing Lazar Krstic, Minister of Finance, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Nikola Ćorsovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Nada Mirkovic, Head of the Department of Finance, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, as well as Minister of Business Sasa Radulovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda, this is the draft law on the 2014 budget of the Republic of Serbia with a proposal for a decision to give its consent to the Financial Fund for Pension Insurance for 2014, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Health Insurance Fund for 2014, the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for the Social Insurance Fund for the 2014 Social Insurance Fund and the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for the year 2014; the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision on amendments to the Decision on amendments to the Changes and Supplements to the Financial Fund for Health Insurance for the year 2013. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on drafts of the agenda under points 12, 13 and 14, and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total debate time for parliamentary groups, is five hours and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. You have time in hand. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 192(3), paragraph 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled single search on: the draft budget law of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 with a proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Republic of Slovenia for 2014; the proposal for a decision to give consent to the 2014 Financial Fund for Health Insurance; the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance for the year 2014 and the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the National Employment Service for 2014; the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Decision amending and supplementing the National Employment Service Decision for 2013. Does the Prime Minister want a word? The word has Prime Minister Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, you have today's proposal, at this moment, the most important law in the country - the 2014 budget. This budget is an opportunity for a new beginning, for a turning point in the way of thinking. The government of the Republic of Serbia is a document that gathers everything we have declared since the beginning of our mandate as the objectives and guidelines of our policy. First of all, responsibility. This government, like none before, had the courage to present to you a budget that corresponds to reality. This seemingly simple and logical task in years behind us has not been done properly, and the consequences of this are felt today and will be felt in years ahead of us. The government of the Republic of Serbia is determined not to repeat such mistakes and the proof of this determination is also the reconstruction of the government that we have approached with the sole goal of preserving the stability of the country and the political but, above all, economically. The responsibility is great, both the finance minister's responsibility and the responsibility of all of us in the government to understand a moment where there is no place for political compromises, which would endanger what needs to be implemented. There's not much room for demagogy and parole. You all know, ladies and gentlemen, that I am a socialist and that I want to see a state that will have the strength to take care of all its citizens, in which pensions will only grow, in which business will be secure and the economy will function in such a way as to ensure social well-being. Today, unfortunately, we don't live in that moment. Today we live in a reality that does not allow us to pay, pensions and social benefits to grow in the next period to which we would like to. Today we live in a state where the increase in public debt in the coming period threatens to threaten the country, in which the deficit threatened to exceed 9% of gross national income, in which a quarter of the working-age population does not work, in which we learn that 10% of the population receives the salary from the impoverished budget. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we ask ourselves how to re-create the conditions to lead here, under the name of the alleged luxury, but essentially, a fundamental and real political discussion of who the Socialist is, who the nationalist, who is a liberal, who belongs to a moderate right or a moderate left. This budget and the laws that follow it can give us answers to these questions as well. It's time to wake up once and look in the mirror and, of course, not just us in power. We showed you the right picture. When it comes to who worked well and who didn't, we showed this reality in relation to the problems and the situation in KIM, we also showed this reality when it comes to European integration. We're showing that real picture now when we're talking about finance. Despite any pleasant reality and worrying facts, this government has managed with this budget to create conditions for the train that is headed for the break-in to stop, not to allow in just a few years we are in a situation to experience a scenario worse than the Greek one. Today's budget is forecasting a 7.1%) deficit just thanks to the measures we're implementing. Otherwise, we would have reached 9% in 2014. Public debt in the next few years is stabilised below 70% of GDP. If we hadn't started carrying out the measurements, we'd be talking about 80%. I remind you that in 2008, the debt rate was between 29% and 30% of national income. Fiscal and structural measures guarantee a 1% growth in the following year. And here we were responsible for the assessment of growth, at a time when the relevant international institutions predict a growth of 1.7%. This budget is certainly not a solution, but it is the first step towards it. Along with a set of laws that you've had a chance to discuss in the past few days, this is a prerequisite for the reform process to begin at all. Here, as you know, we will not lie to you. This process must take several years, because it has been stopped halfway. This government is determined to go all the way in this very easy and pleasant business. The story of the restructuring of 153 public enterprises must end, of course, not over the knee and not in favour of the tycoon, but in such a way that we think of workers of these companies as well as of the benefit it would bring to the whole country. Public enterprises should not only be a cost to the state and a recipe to preserve fragile social peace, but rather an example of a change of consciousness and a way of thinking. Let us remember that it means both publicly and collectively, and that the profits of these companies mean profits for the state as well. Such a state has the potential not to view health and school as problems, like fires to be put out, but as areas in which we invest, expecting results. To get results, we must not waste power and resources. Do we need 740,000 people in the public sector? Is it realistic that on the salaries of these people we pay everything we charge through taxes from the private sector? The state apparatus must become the service of all citizens and businesses, such as the state apparatus cannot exist at the expense of the private sector, so the private sector cannot operate independently of the state and, above all, independent of the tax system. We are determined to curb the grey economy and bring each subject's business into the legal frameworks. To be even simpler, in Serbia everyone has to pay taxes and there are no exceptions. The Serbian economy mechanism must be launched immediately. It depends on investment from abroad, but also on the domestic strength we need to motivate the new Labour Act. This law will be designed to stimulate employment, to interfere with those who do, but also punish those who avoid it. An important and inevitable part of the system, which also needs deep and careful reforms, is also the pension system. Respecting all rights acquired so far and thinking about the future of those who today are maintaining their work with the PIO Fund, we will approach the improvement of this system and turn it into a sustainable mechanism. We are determined to find a solution to the problems that have been put under the rug for years, such as the financing of Vojvodina, but also the financing of local self-government. The province's specifics must be respected, while at the same time making sure it is not at the expense of other Serbian citizens. As Vojvodina has specific rights, as well as any other local self-government in Serbia, it must also have a specific responsibility. It's not the idea to pour money into someone else or a third register from one register. The idea is that these givings allow each of these local systems to work for the benefit of the people who live there. But the state has the greatest responsibility there, and that's why every penny always has to ask the question it's going to get the exact answer where the money goes, and that's the responsibility. The responsibility is that the solutions we are offered are accepted or suggested better. Some of you sitting here today have had the opportunity to propose and implement. As I'm going to say some of our proposals aren't the brightest, so I'm going to tell you that, because of some of your proposals and your policies today, we are also facing controversial privatisations, hidden costs of the state, with suspense. We have managed to create in such circumstances a budget that guarantees that the state will not only not stop, but what it has been for years will begin to move again. We have provided continued work on infrastructure projects. We've secured the stability of wages and pensions. We've secured a third higher budget for culture, which has been neglected for years. We have preserved stability and provided guarantees to foreign investors to see a good and reliable partner in Serbia. We have made it possible for the Eurointegration process to run smoothly and that our country's public and financial systems are rapidly approaching the standards of the most developed European countries. So today I call on you to support the draft budget law, to give reality a chance, to try instead of big words and shows for the public to turn to solving life's problems, because the most important thing is for someone to be aware of the situation in which they are, so that they can take action at all to improve it. I won't be during this whole debate. He'll be Minister of Finance and Minister of Business. I wanted to come out of respect for you, the MPs, and hold this opening statement before the Ministers are presented. As you know, the budget is after the Constitution, so to speak, the most important law for a country. Also, the budget is also a sign of political stability. If there's no budget, then there's no political stability. That's why this debate is important. On the other hand, I am absolutely ready and that, as political parties with responsibility, we are talking not only about this budget and not today, but about the global, essential, real policy objectives that Serbia should lead in the coming period. The budget is just one part of the reality we live in today. We expect it to begin next week, that is, this week, but during the next week, these final meetings will be in the EU, when it comes to the date for holding the first intergovernmental conference, i.e. the crucial start of real negotiations on Serbia's EU membership. These are very important decisions and very important sessions. As you know, such positive decisions will depend on our internal reforms, but also on progress in the dialogue for Pristina. That's the reality we live in. To do so, the agreement and discussion on the implementation of the Brussels Agreement, on police and justice must continue this week, on the establishment of a community of Serb municipalities. With all this in mind, surely we shouldn't make a situation in Serbia of Podokin's villages, but knowing reality and respecting reality, if we're responsible for the people who run this country, we need to take measures to stop that situation and turn it around and Serbia could move forward. For this reason, given that the citizens of Serbia expect responsibility from us, I call on the MPs to support this draft budget and other accompanying laws and, of course, with a complete willingness to hear different opinions and to hear better proposals, if any, because this is not an economic crisis and the situation in which Serbia is located is not the property of only the Serbian Government. Unfortunately, almost all of us sitting in this room are responsible for this because everyone in their time ran this country. Of course, the government should allow all parties to make their proposals. I was approached by LDP President Mr Jovanovic with one such idea to discuss the essential issues and problems that lie ahead of our country. I think we should talk about it. No one has the best idea to solve all problems and crises, but it is therefore very important that there is one atmosphere of tolerance, dialogue and agreement that would allow Serbia to move forward without major social divisions and conflicts in society. Allow me to, regardless of the party's definition, invite you to hold this budget that represents in some way a realistic view, perhaps not with appropriate measures. Someone may resent that these measures are mild, someone will resent that these measures are too harsh. They're not wrong either. These measures could have been sharper, but then we would have come into a situation where even what exists in such difficult conditions could lose its breath at some point, that is to say, to stop working more, and we can't just treat the system without the patient dying. On the other hand, you'd probably be right about those who say the measurements are too sharp. That's why this was in some way an attempt to see all the problems real. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I urge you to support the draft budget for next year with the intention of discussing this in the coming years when the government's reconstruction was done, trying to make budgets for several years ahead, to sort of be one real budget planning so that everyone knows what the tendencies are waiting for us. Unfortunately, we're still relatively far from it, but that's one way to go. I hope that we will also bring the next budget to a much better political and economic situation where Serbia is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29220	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: I answered the word. ) The word has Minister Krstic, please. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the place: Replica. You can't have a replica now until it's over. Minister, here you go. (Kedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Is that according to the Rules of Procedure? )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29221	Mr President-in-Office, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister Radulovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am pleased that in the previous days we have had the opportunity to discuss together in a constructive and quality way the laws that are the starting point in the way of the reforms we are conducting. At the same time, I'm not glad we're where we are and that there's a need ahead of our individual desires and the opportunity for everything to be satisfied. I believe that in this limited space where we must act today, we have reached the maximum. The maximum in these conditions is minimum necessary for us to continue to function. What's the minimum? Minimum is a stabilization of public debt. The goal we set is about 70% by 2016 and change of course, deficit, first recognized 7.1% instead of close to 9%, which we would have had at that level if we hadn't taken the measures we discussed last week. I'd like to add to this opportunity that it's a deficit at a level that we haven't discussed before and that at a republican level we have a deficit less than by rebalancing for this year, as well as a consolidated by 0.1%, but that's something. Although we had a chance to discuss most of these elements last week, I will only introduce the most important components of the budget for next year. At the republican level, we are planning 930 billion income in 2014, which is more than 873, as we have on the rebalance for this year. It's a nominal growth of about 6.5%. Total expenditures are 1.112 billion, a nominal growth of around 5.8% compared to the current year's rebalance. We have 182 billion deficits, or 4.6% of GDP, compared to 4.7% per rebalance for the current year. As far as the revenue side is concerned, there's a little more detail. As in previous years, the biggest revenues are planned from VAT – 430 billion dinars, or 46% of total revenues. What's important here is to stress that the measures we take on the revenue side for tax administration reform and countering the gray economy should bring us humble ones I would say 16 billion on the side of taxes and an additional six billion on the side of excises, especially as regards tobacco smuggling and oil derivatives. I say modest because there's a lot more to this space and we're going to keep doing and planning and counting on it for the next two years. The increase in VAT from 8% to 10% and the transfer of IT sector, so to speak, will bring us an additional 21.5 billion and 0.5%, respectively, almost 0.6% of GDP. As for the expenditure side, the total expenditure on employees is 272 billion, 24% of total expenditure. A nominal increase of 3.2% compared to 2013 as a result of wage indexation of 1.5% and salary increase due to past work and promotion, or promotion in service. The expenditure on goods and services in 2014 will be 96 billion. That's a 10% nominal growth. It's important to understand why there was an increase. We have a different methodology here. I'll discuss this in more detail when we get into the discussion in detail. The interest is 114 billion. It's an increase of over 20 billion from the previous year, that is, this year. This is an increase of around 14 billion we had in 2008 and this is the result of irresponsible borrowing in the previous period. Also, it means providing cheap borrowing to foreign partners, whether international institutions, through bilaterals, and that is something that is crucial for long-term stabilisation in our country. The subsidies are 81 billion and we are reducing further compared to 2013 by 84 billion. A large part of what compensates for the reduction is the transfer of the public service of RTS and the Vojvodina Radio to the budget next year. What is important, and more will be talked about by the Minister of Industry, is that we are changing the model of subsidisation both in the economy and in agriculture. Stimulation will be for companies to earn on healthy feet, and farmers to produce more. A review of the justification of the guarantee, so there wouldn't be anything below the line again. The conditions will, of course, be to restructure these companies, 153 which are in restructuring, as well as reforms in public enterprises. At local level, a more restrictive policy for enterprises, for local public enterprises, for subsidies, is ensured by reducing non-purpose transfers, i.e. transfers relating to subsidies to public and municipal enterprises. We will also not forget them in terms of restructuring that is necessary. Transfers to compulsory social insurance organisations, primarily the PIO Fund, amount to a total of 280 billion. Once again, 25% of total budget expenditure. Again, it goes with the indexation and this is what the prime minister was talking about, that we will have to address it in a long time to ensure sustainability. Social security is at the level of 2013, around 107 billion. The highest number is individual for childcare – 47 billion. Capital expenditures are 52 billion dinars, which is a significant increase compared to this year and 34 billion, which is over 50% increase, and 5% of the total budget is a significant amount compared to the previous budgets. What is important here, is that as Government, we have moved and set priorities for projects and capital investments that we are going to do, decided which we will not do, in order to prevent further borrowing based on loans that we do not withdraw, and also move on to concession models and public-private partnerships wherever possible, to ensure that the private sector participates in capital investments. Some of the most important projects are irrigation in agriculture loans from Abu Dhabi, rebuilding clinical centres in Serbia, research and development in science, in the public sector, modernising schools, social inclusion projects. There's an increase in the culture budget by a third. It's not enough, but it's a step in the right direction, I'd say, and I'm counting it without information, without RTS and RTV. As far as funding is concerned, the total is about 6 billion euros. Most of it, unfortunately, three-quarters, almost refers to refinancing, and I hope to pay off some old debts. Most of that money we hope will be provided from bilateral sources of funding and hopefully a large part of them at favourable interest. As far as the consolidated general government budget is concerned, to address it, although this is not the topic necessary for this debate, but I think it should be, as should be, what is below the line, for the first time, means, when considering a consolidated state, total revenues are 1.583 billion, expenditures are 1,802 billion, the consolidated deficit is planned to be 219 billion, or 5.5% of gross social product, which is lower than this year on rebalance, where that is 5.6. As for what's below the line, which brings us to the famous 7.1%, the expenditure below the line is about 1.7% of GDP, the entire 67.5 billion dinars. What's important for you all to know is that we're throwing out members of the Budget Act that allow us to keep doing this, to give guarantees and to be in debt without the approval of the National Assembly. So 67.5 billion refers to the repayments of previously taken loans with state guarantees for public enterprises "Srbiagas", Railways, JAT, Galenika, which is more than 40 billion; 24 billion refers to the preservation of the banking sector, and we certainly hope that we will not have to spend everything as planned, especially as regards the banking sector. So we're aware and we know we can't talk about neither the ideal nor the best budget. We're talking about the only possible route, the only possible direction. The prime minister has already hinted at the steps that await us when he spoke about structural reforms and I will not repeat that, I was already talking about it last week. All that we have to do, I'm going to do it again, we have to do it so we don't have a 9% deficit, which would really be the biggest one right now in Europe, and in order not to face a public debt crisis over a year to two days, which is not going to happen to us with a budget like this and a fiscal strategy, which is a three-year plan, for the first time, credible, I'd say, is not going to happen. It's important that we know that this budget cannot be seen separately from a set of laws that we already talked about last week. We can't plan not to bring order into the public sector either. New employment, unfortunately, has threatened to destroy a system that is no longer capable of being maintained. We voted it all together last week, and we're going to regulate it by regulation and government act in an adequate way. But what's important to know is that these effects are not included in this budget, as far as freezing employment and early retirement. So, if we were to include in the budget the effects of stopping employment, introducing payment classes, where we're going to work and plan to introduce them by July 1st, the figures we've given in this budget would be, if we had included it, even less, so in some way, this budget is real. But we're going to work to make it much better over the years, unlike in previous years, when it's mostly rebalanced in the opposite direction. On top of that, there are these 200m euros set for the banking sector, for state banks. According to the preliminary results we have from the state's extraordinary audits that the country requested from all banks at the end of September, it seems to be significantly less, which is also encouraging. So, in conclusion, the chances of a scale between the shades we've missed, unfortunately, are now expected to be responsible. To be as responsible as we weren't, when we put out the fires by turning our heads on the other side, to be responsible and to admit that we were wrong, while there's still time for such a confession. The only thing I can promise you is that the path we're going will not be easy. They promised you this before, but it happened that with the first holes on the road, we stopped the vehicle, turned it on the other side, to continue on a comfortable and comfortable path, which unfortunately led to the wrong side. That's not what we're gonna do. This budget is a twist in that sense and I invite you to a constructive debate. I hope that through it we will have the opportunity to convince everyone that this is what we need right now and the first step of healing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29222	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Articles 27, 107 and 116. Mr. Chairman, how did you begin this session and how do you conduct this session? Before us is the most important law, the Budget Act. This session requires tolerance, wisdom and respect for parliament and MPs. Have you met all these conditions that I have listed when you did not give a word to one of the presidents of the parliamentary group who wanted to respond to the fact that the prime minister mentioned that LDP leader addressed the prime minister with certain proposals regarding the particular public interest, right about the national consensus, which is and how it is necessary for this Serbia when we talk about the budget? How do you plan to continue to hold a session, and how do you expect a serious debate, an argument argued if you are disabling any possibility of a single replica, a simple reaction to the simple mention of an opposition leader? Mr. Chairman, Article 116. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that you Rules of Procedure apply to all those present at the session. Therefore, if the minister mentioned Mr Jovanovic, you were simply obliged to allow Mr Jovanovic to replicate. So I'm asking you a question -- is the budget debate going this way how you started... (President: Time, Mrs. Judith. )......................................................................................................... Or do you think in the end you actually approach a new way of holding a session?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29224	Mrs. Judith, thank you for your words of wisdom. I admit I'm not wise for you. That's one thing. Secondly, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. You know very well that when the session opens, the first word has a minister. You know as well as I do that the right to the replica is exclusively the discretionary right of the chairman whether he will give or not. This does not mean that I would not give Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic the right to reply, but after the minister's presentation, although I do not find it offensive to Mr. Jovanovic at all. That doesn't mean anyone can call me here whatever they want. I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. The fact that you think you have the right to report whenever you want, not respecting the Rules of Procedure, that's your problem. The word has Minister Sasa Radulovic. Here you go. (National MP Cedomir Jovanovic, from the post: Not according to the Rules of Procedure... Mr. Jovanovic, let the ministers finish first, please. Let the ministers finish first. It's a business thing. It's my discretionary right to give you a replica or not when I give it to you. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29225	You've hurt Article 27. Rules of Procedure. First, the LDP is asking for the President of Parliament to come here or Mrs Kovac to start running this session. You, Mr. Arsenovic, at this point cannot work in a way that deserves such a serious budget debate. This is the Prime Minister, two very important ministers. At the very beginning, you make it impossible for the session to run normally. Where does your interpretation say in the Rules of Procedure that seven ministers can speak first here? So, the debate was opened by the Prime Minister as a representative of the government, finally as a representative of the government and prime minister. If we consider that there is a right to replication, you also believe that the conditions for replication are met, then give Mr Jovanovic the word. Do not treat Mrs Popovic this way when you are warned about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then you are talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Leave your personal impressions for another time. It's 11 o'clock, you're not in a position to hold a session.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29226	I'm still here to say that there hasn't been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and as far as I'm concerned, I don't think it's yours, it's the President of the Assembly who's going to appoint him to chair. I don't mind if Wesna presides. On the contrary, we change regularly. So, having animosity to me, that's another problem of yours. In the day of the vote, shall we ask him to plead on behalf of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29228	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29229	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, the Honorable Chairman, I am advocating the article. 103. 104 and 109, since it's tied to each other. Article 103 says the MP has the right to orally point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which I do and have done by previous colleagues. Article 104 says, if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is offended by an MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and function, or misreading his presentation, the MP shall have the right to replication. At the end he says – the President of the National Assembly decides on the use of the rights set out in Article 1 and 2 of this article. On this occasion, I would like to say that in the case of my colleagues, you did not hurt the Rules of Procedure, nor did a colleague from whose group now spoke have any exposure. Two, no one was insulting to him. I even think the term was commendable, that there was talk of dialogue to be conducted. So you're right about that. The only thing you were wrong is Article 109(1), which says: the warning is pronounced if you use curses and offensive expressions. I think it is offensive to tell the Vice President of the Assembly that he is already unable to hold a session, that the session is based on personal impressions, etc. I therefore think that you have injured the Rules of Procedure in Article 109 because the Chairman is saying – you are unable to hold a session in a way that is said quite offensively, and in that part you have violated the Rules of Procedure. Since that's the opposition, I won't insist on voting on this. I just want to draw attention to this fact the pure audience is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29230	The word has Minister Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29231	Dear President, Prime Minister, Ministers, Honored Ladies and People's MPs, Serbia has led a completely missed economic policy, especially for the last 10 years, a policy based on large subsidies to everything and everything, on high public spending, on the high participation of the state in all areas of economic life, on party governance of large public enterprises and on social enterprises, neglecting businesses in restructuring, and this has cost us all a great deal. It cost a huge job loss, over 300,000 jobs we lost. The economy is completely down. Entities that are restructuring are completely abandoned, and the consequences for Serbian citizens are the decline of living standards, small pensions, small wages. That's what got us a completely collapsed system, and it can't go on. A new economic policy must be based on the development of domestic economy. The development of a domestic economy that will bring us growth and therefore employment and the growth of living standards, which are the main objectives of the government's economic policy. While we were buying jobs in a dozen, we lost them a thousand. Such a policy is the perpetum of mobile economic policy and it cannot give other results than those that we have received. Serbian citizens are witnesses as a result of such a destructive economic policy. We have conducted one robbery privatisation and this robbery privatisation has had huge consequences on the standard of living of citizens and the economic development of the Republic. The high irresponsibility of the state authorities that carried out the privatisation, and the consequences are paid by all Serbian citizens. With the new budget, the Serbian government is changing that economic policy. Economic policy must be based on sound foundations, profit, sustainability. We can't measure money on missed projects. There's no state deposit money from which ministers can carry and share discreetly as they think they should. In order to subsidize someone, to give someone a dollar, you have to take some money, and then you have to take care of what it's worth to whoever you take and what it's worth from who you give and those bills we've never done, and that's why we're in the situation where we're in. The main focus of economic policy in 2014 are the enterprises in restructuring, 153 of them. A lot of these companies only have a future if we treat them domestically. What we are doing is, firstly, adopting key laws that will allow us to put those companies, that is, the part of them that has a future, healthy legs, that we will determine what property they have, what the value of those assets, which are obligations, and therefore make one cleaning of these enterprises so that they are without debts, then privatisation, or finding investors, both domestic and foreign ones, will be successful. This is the procedure to be completed in 2014 and the legislative proposals that we have put forward, which should be found before the National Assembly, are precisely in order to successfully complete the restructuring of these companies, to put these businesses on their healthy feet, to have a future. It's one process that we started with in September, we expect this cleanup by the end of the year, so that we can start again in January. What came out of the analysis so far is that in irresponsible behavior, in the last 10 years, we've lost all capital. So, in these companies, the value of the assets is less than the value of the liabilities, which means that the state and state bodies, the institutions that took care of these enterprises, have lost their irresponsible behaviour completely to capital. The way of restructuring is now to turn debts into capital, to clear these companies from debt, to be clean and ready for further privatisation. Among the creditors, the biggest creditors are the state again and that tax administration on behalf of unpaid taxes, the PIO Fund on behalf of unpaid contributions, then the development fund and other state-owned companies whose accounts have not been paid for years, where we have large claims. We expect this procedure to be completed by the end of January, after which all these companies will have to make business plans for 2014. Those business plans we believe will be successful will receive credit support from the development fund, but once. They will receive trade funds and a chance to put themselves on healthy feet, parallel to that we will do their privatisation for which we expect it to end by the end of 2014. The success of this programme by the Ministry of Industry and the entire government will be measured by whether we managed to finish it by the end of 2014. These indicators will be completely indisputable, so we will be able to clearly measure whether the government policy, or whether this programme we have created is successful or unsuccessful. We're not gonna hang out for 10 years and hide behind failure. This must be clear and transparent, visible to all citizens of Serbia. This first part is based on responsibility, cleaning up these enterprises in restructuring, I think many of them are the future of Serbia's economic system and development, we're just irresponsible to the situation we're in today. The big focus of attracting investors in 2014 will be precisely for these companies, finding investors for these 153 enterprises in restructuring, the process has already started, there is a significant interest and what is very important is that they have a clean picture, that they know exactly what assets are and what obligations are involved. The main focus will be on solving the company's restructuring problem, 153 of them. As for the private sector, interest rates, or available funding, is a major problem. With the interest rates we have in Serbia, it is very difficult to make a profitable business, it is very difficult to do business at all. The consequences are once again the lack of growth and the lack of employment. We have designed a guarantee fund that will work on market conditions to reduce the risk to banks, so that the bank's risk premium will fall in 2014, so that the price of credit for the economy, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, will fall significantly and that these loans, based on these loans that banks will provide from their own resources, can actually create conditions for the development of this small and medium-sized economy. So, not the state that decides which funds will be allocated, but the banking system that should have that function, and the guarantee fund in co-operation with banks should provide guarantees, i.e. the insurance of these loans, so that the risk and risk-premium will fall. We have already entered into talks with banks and expect to have signed and completed contracts in early 2014. To underline, this is not a subsidy. We make this fund on sound ground and the World Bank and the IMF admit it to us that it's a healthy asset and admit it's an investment, not a spending. I think it's a very important sign for all of us, that we have been responsible for this and that we are looking for market solutions to the problems we are in. When you have a problem with interest rates, let's say in the banking sector, the solution is not to replace the banking sector and make a parallel state, let's say through development funds and such projects, but to fix what doesn't work in the banking system. We think there's something called "It's also part of creating a good business environment, regulatory reform, we started with laws, the Law on Planning and Construction, the Labour Act. We expect and many other laws will be changed in 2014 to facilitate business and make it profitable. The best signal for foreign investors is if the business environment in the country is good for domestic companies, if domestic companies are successful, it is the best sign for foreign investors to come and invest in Serbia. So government policy or economic policy for 2014 will be based on the creation of a business environment. The state isn't the one who hires. Ministers aren't the ones who open jobs. Jobs open up the economy. Healthy jobs open up the private sector. The country's economic policy will be based on the development of a private sector, a healthy environment, a healthy profit-based economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29232	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29233	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, you have injured a 106th member in which he says the speaker can only speak about the item of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Today's budget for the Republic of Serbia is on the agenda for 2014. Minister Radulovic did not mention a single figure, not a single one. The budget is composed of different positions. He was talking about a healthy state, and he's not a health minister. He was talking about the fact that it's not the ministers who are opening jobs, and how are you here to close jobs? So he wasn't talking about the subject. He did not explain to us what the positions mean – the acquisition of 21 billion dinar financial assets intended to implement public policies. We know it's for 60,000 employees who will go to the street and lose their jobs. Minister Radulovic did not explain it to us. He mentioned, in that position he would be able to connect some work experience. He wasn't talking about numbers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29234	Please, the subject is a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please focus on the subject and focus.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29235	Mr. Chairman, I would like to say that Minister Radulovic has used 15 or 20 minutes of time foreseen to address the minister over the budget without mentioning any single figure. I think he was speaking beyond the subject, especially speaking of the past 10 years, and besides him was the vice president of the former government, so he could discuss some things with him before that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29236	I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. The thing is, who's going to explain the subject that's on the agenda, and I think the minister was on the subject. Therefore, it is your right to make a statement in the day of voting on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to? (Yes) The word is by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, a replica of Prime Minister Dacic's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29237	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Dacic, I think you and your government still had to find the time to talk that I asked for. I don't think it's just the LDP that's interested in talking to the government about the economic policy that's going to take place next year. You know, Mr. Dacic, this is your sixth budget since 2008. Believe me, neither I nor any of the LDP MPs enjoy the fact that we voted against the budget every time, primarily because there was no willingness for the government to face essential problems and to specify its economic policy. This is your second prime minister's budget. Since you mentioned Kosovo yourself, it is true, we have discussed Kosovo. We haven't seen any use for ourselves or for this country, to point at the fact that after 20 years of wrong policy your party, along with some other parties decided to make that political turn and practically accept that policy that wasn't just ours, but we were lonely in it for years. But when we make a mistake in Kosovo politics, the highest price for it is paid by people down in Jarinj and Brnjak. We here in Serbia, in accordance with our traditional weaknesses, turn our backs on the other side and very quickly forget how responsible we really are for the tragedies from Knin to Kosovo Mitrovica. But he can't behave like that in economic politics. When mistakes are made, the account comes to all and to those who have been critical from the beginning with the right and those who have refused these criticisms. The debate and the way we started is filled with weaknesses we have no right to, which, among other things, encourages the fact that we didn't talk, not you and me, but us as people who deal with politics. We do not see any use in having much more time to spend here with Minister Radulovic, and before him Minister Lazar Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29238	Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29239	I mentioned and I'm sorry that there was this misunderstanding, because I didn't mention it at all in a negative context, but I mentioned it as an initiative that I think is positive and that, in any case, we should accept the debate on the most important issues that exist, the most important problems. Surely in that conversation, as well as in the talks we had about the Brussels Agreement, not everyone will think the same thing and not all will have the same attitude. But it's important to have a dialogue and it's kind of important because, as you mentioned earlier, each of us was in some kind of government at some point. Here, I'm going to say now, the service here told me that I was the first prime minister after Zoran Djindjic in 2002 to come on the subject of the budget, not counting Mirko Cvetkovic, who was also the finance minister. When he was prime minister, he didn't come to the prime minister's office alone. I mean, now I'm talking about wanting to, because you've repeatedly, I think you've made it very clear that we should be present at this session and I absolutely agree. I also think it is important to have a dialogue on the most important topics. It's not just economic issues, it's political topics, and we have a number of political topics that have their own economic background, but they also have certain political conconsequences where problems can arise without which it would certainly be easier to function at this point, such as the issue of Vojvodina. To be clear, I was also the last government, and I know well how sincere the demands of the then ruling structure were to really honor what was the agreement. The law on the financing of Vojvodina did not prevent this government but the previous one. Don't let now that power has changed, now that Bojan Pajtic has remembered that the problem is in Belgrade. I know well that whenever I went to Novi Sad, the former president of your party begged me to be the one who would object, just so that the law and everything else would not be passed. So don't just talk to me about an honest relationship with Vojvodina's autonomy. Vojvodina's autonomy is Serbia's autonomy, not Serbia's, which is why I want the whole issue to be depoliticalised and discussed in a concrete way, which is a question that causes political repression. I agree with you, Mr. Jovanovic, and these are among other topics. The political system we want to build. What a political system we want. What election systems we want. So is the democratic electoral system in Vojvodina, for example. Is the best political system we have here in the face of some changes to the Constitution, etc.? What are the powers that certain state authorities have? Do the powers of the President of the Republic of Serbia correspond to the way he is elected? I mean, they're all topics for discussion. With us each measures it only to how much it will win in the elections, and then thinks about it, one mandate for proportional and then we are for the majority elections. Whoever comes to power is for the majority election. Not realizing that's how fast he'll get out of power. I'm saying it all, ladies and gentlemen from experience. Because I haven't been in this congregation since 2000, since 1992. I've watched a lot of people come and go. I'm sorry I'm staying, but what can I do? In any case, this is an open question and I support Mr Jovanovic's proposal to discuss it with all parties.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29240	Replica. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29241	All right, Mr. Dacic, but time is the resource we spent. We wanted to talk about economic policy for 2014. The problems that stand before anyone who wants to change this country. You're the prime minister today, you say, sorry you're here all the time. Well, maybe in three months you won't be here anymore, but that's not the most important thing. Where are you, where am I or any of us? Your two ministers, key at this time for the country, spoke. They did not mention the Labour Act, the reform of pension policy, the law on bankruptcy, did not explain the criticisms with which they had fully destabilised and such chaotic relations in the country, between employers, employees, state, union, private sector and state, venger funds, CPV. Let's do a quick poll here, see which one of the MPs knows what they're talking about. And we don't see any chance for ourselves, in the complete breakdown of this country because of the mistakes that have been made since it exists. We don't need one or two percent more because we're going to dismember you and your government today. Only at this point can we discuss economic policy for 2014. We'll invest. The man says we have to be in debt for six billion. Well, you know how you look at a country that has a gross social product of 30, and you owe six billion in one year. Foreign investors to come to a restructuring company. Enter one, Mr. Radulovich, I have never escaped from them. Never. Get into that Ironstone over there in Smederev, and you see. I went to the campaign, they told me - don't go in there. All DSS and Radicals. Poor and desperate world. You're not responsible for this. If you were Warren Buffett, you wouldn't be able to handle it on your own. Now it's Dacic's topic to talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29242	Replica. Janko Veselinović. And I'm asking you to go back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29243	That's exactly what I'm talking about, Chairman. The Prime Minister's in the system -- I'm seizing myself, seizing myself, talking about things that aren't on the agenda today. That, Mr. Dacic, as much as you are capable of being in different governments for a long time, is a matter for your congresses, conventions and so on, your members. Today we are talking about the budget, the fact that this country will be in charge of the new five or six billion next year. The fact that in a year and a half you're in charge of five billion, the fact that in a minute you're in charge of 97 euros, in a second or in a minute, I'm not quite sure. That probably no indicator can measure, there's no such indicator that can measure the speed of your borrowing and I'm asking you to go back to the subject. You want to tell us what you're offering us for next year? Are these just layoffs, are they just higher prices, is it freezing pensions, is it an inability to hire anyone who finishes college in this country than looking for a job abroad? Whether these are a number of topics that we open in areas where money is held by the state and spent on things that are not investments, which are not roads, which are not infrastructures, which are not jobs, but spending on political structures or staffing. What an opportunity you've all had, or all of us, to see these days before the law was passed. In Elektroprivreda, over a hundred people were employed in one hour. Mr. Dacic, we want to talk about this and not about your skill in how to stay in power.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29244	Thank you. The word has Prime Minister Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29245	I really don't expect you to talk about it, I didn't ask you for any support or consent to such a thing. What was I talking about that's not on the agenda? Is Serbia's budget on the agenda today? Did I talk about Vojvodina? Are there amendments coming from Vojvodina? There's nothing on the agenda that suggests that there are certain problems that have arisen who knows what period behind this. It's on the agenda for you just to see what happens tomorrow. And what's going to happen tomorrow can't be defined by something that won't depend on what we do just today. You can't talk about this government borrowing the country, when your previous government, which I was in, but as deputy prime minister and interior minister, increased as deputy prime minister and interior minister. I didn't ask for your opinion at all. I didn't ask for your opinion, and you answer the word and state your opinion. Since you were now in the State Department, I assume you've despaired your positions in party waters, at least it's systematic at the same time that Gilas is in Brussels, you're in the State Department, but well, that's fine. In any case, from 2008 to 2012 and to today, the debt rate has increased from 29% or 30% to 58%. What are you talking about then? What are you talking about? What were you in charge of? Why was the money spent? Well, it wasn't Mladjan Dinkic, it was you who held the Ministry of Finance. Since 2003, 13 billion has increased our country's debt. And now what are you talking about duty? After all, it is not only the problem of the debt rate, the problem is the height of the GPD, or national income. When we have a higher GPD, or a gross social product, that rate will be completely normal if it comes to investment borrowings. We had a meeting that I had to schedule, because he asked for Minister Krstic, which is to see how much we could be in charge in the coming years. Because today, you can all be in debt, everyone's offering money. The fact that you can't find it today, I remember some previous governments had a huge success, he says, we got a loan. Wait, what's the success of getting a loan? I'd be happy if someone gave a donation. But to look forward to someone giving credit today, today, and especially maybe up to a year ago, there were better interest rates, you could have taken money with very low interest rates. We had one problem, which is that our ministries in the past years planned that in the next three years we needed nine billion to be in debt. It's so planned, even some were before the signing. It's all projects. It's not that these aren't investment loans right now, but such a rate, simply, if you add debt to that, which must go to cover the deficits, we can't handle it. You remember that during this period, funds had to be allocated for the recovery of the banks, for the rehabilitation of Agrobanke, for the rehabilitation of the "Vojvodine Development Bank", for the recovery of the now "Okredna Banka". It's not as simple today as we say -- we're not going to grant subsidies from today, it's all right, but Serbia can't stop now just because of that. It's easy to speak in theoretical settings, but it's hard to run the system. That's why I didn't plan on plowing now, nor when I was talking about the Duke's Finance Act. I was talking about there were some things we could have done before, we didn't do them. There are no problems in Vojvodina with the arrival of this government. Problems between Belgrade and Novi Sad have arisen much earlier, and we should try to solve them today. Here, I'll tell you one thing. Vojvodina was under the law obliged to finance winter road maintenance. It's 1,600 kilometers in Vojvodina. It was supposed to take over in 2009 or 2010. There's no company formed yet. If the Department of Traffic hadn't taken over to pay for it, he wouldn't have anyone today to clear the roads in Vojvodina. You didn't form a company, you let it go, and you beg to remain that the Republic does so until April. So, what you can do, what Vojvodina can, in the rest of what I'm talking to you, is not the Duke's property. I am talking about that authorities in Vojvodina should not realise that the political struggle being fought should affect a professional and professional debate on how the government functions in Vojvodina. I absolutely agree that we need to talk about this. It was not possible now, during this period to organise these types of meetings on this document, but I am absolutely agreed that the most important topics should be conducted in dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29246	We're done with the replicas and we're done with the work. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (Dear Sutanovac, from the site: Replica. I mean, I'm... I'm... I'm... Mr. Sutanovac, you've caused it, you've been throwing it out of place. Please, I've been very careful. (Dear Sutanovac, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure.) Did you want to follow the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29247	Mr. Chairman, you are persistently violating the Rules of Procedure today, Rule 104, obviously trying to deceive both the public and the government's representatives that this Parliament cannot work. The fact that you haven't been concentrated since this morning, obviously, is disturbing us in our work and I want to discuss it on the basis of the right to the Rules of Procedure, because by name and last name several times, even the Prime Minister has alluded some travel, etc. I didn't cause anything. Mr. Prime Minister in the former government was the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior, but also the first Deputy Prime Minister, right? I just said that you were and that, and it wasn't a caused replica. It's a fact of fact. His signature was this big about his request. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to use replica time? So I want to use two minutes for a replica. That's not true. [[Milisav Petronijevic, from the place: You caused the replica.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we've been listening for about a year as this government is in charge...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29248	I didn't give you the right to a replica. You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29249	What are you doing this for? Which is why you're taking this session on the verge of an incident, without need, when we want to talk in a completely appropriate tone about topics that are on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29250	Mr. Sutanovac, please finish your breach of the Rules of Procedure first.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29251	I'm just asking you to give me a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29252	I didn't give you a replica. If you've completed your breach of the Rules of Procedure, let me explain your advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I'll only see if I can give you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29253	I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29254	You said you didn't give him the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29255	Mr. Jovanovic, please don't throw away. I'll give you a warning, if you continue. You don't have the right to throw your way out of business, nor did Mr. Sutanovac have the right to do that. He threw it out of place and challenged the prime minister. Therefore, you must act...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29256	He's not the Prime Minister's boxer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29257	Mr. Sutanovac, please sit down. I claim there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you have the right to request that we plead to the Rules of Procedure in the day of the vote. (Dear Sutanovac, from the site: Replica. I won't give you a replica. It's my right. I don't think you have the right to a replica. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29258	Article 27, but I could name some more members. The prime minister, Mr. Dacic, spoke for 10-12 minutes, first of all, talking about DS officials and the previous government. It is not possible that I, on behalf of the DS Parliament Club, cannot use two minutes to answer certain questions, which he raised in his presentation. Is this your way of holding a session and is it possible for the Prime Minister's monologue? I don't mind him saying what he's got, but let us at least in two minutes, so five on one is, let's say two sentences.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29259	Mr. Djuric, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Boyan Djuric, from the scene: I'll see that. ) Mr. Veselinović, I will give you, as head of the parliamentary group, the right to reply. Here you go, Mr. Turkey.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29260	How will you give Mr. Veselinović the right to the replica? Excuse me, how will you give Mr. Veselinović the right to the replica? (Chairman: here you go, Mr. Gjuric. ) First, the violation of Article 27, because you have now announced that you will give the right to the replica of Mr. Veselinović. I ask you, on what basis? You didn't give Mr. Sutanovac. Mr. Stefanovic, head of the parliamentary group, is sitting in the hall. I'm just saying, since this morning, you've been arguing with half the O.R., that no one but you in this room wants to. The prime minister wants to talk, Minister Krstic wants to talk, we are ready to talk, you are making it impossible for the debate to run normally, and that is the most important law we adopt in a year. I don't know why you're so nervous, Mr. Arsenovic. We want to work normally. You throw, you argue with the MPs. Who does that serve? I don't believe that you believe that you can accomplish something? So no one here is against you, Mr. Arsenovic, that's what I want to assure you. We just want to have a normal debate. The Minister, or Prime Minister, has a personal style when he speaks here. I don't mind that, we don't mind, and I believe most other MPs don't mind, but then let the debate run normally that way. The prime minister is challenging the MPs and they're responding to him and that's normal. It's called life. Here some other rules apply, but in some organizations that are strictly hierarchical.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29261	Mr. Djuric, I want a normal debate going on, but the debate hasn't started yet. So, Mr. Guric, what are you talking about? This is where the replica is now being held, and the budget debate has not yet begun. I just want the debate to start. Therefore, I believe that I am right and that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29262	Mr. President, I hope this closes the circle of replicas, as far as DS is concerned. I wanted first of all to tell Mr. Dacic, the prime minister, that from another Tito, I hope Mr. Dacic has no objection to that reference, Serbia, together with Yugoslavia, in Yugoslavia, is in charge of 15 billion. Comrade Dacic, during your term of office, you're in charge of five billion, and you're announcing a new six-billion-dollar loan. So, you're going to be in charge of two or two and a half years for 10 billion, and from another Tito, we're in charge of 15 billion. I'm standing up, borrowing 97 euros per second. On the other hand, Mr. Dacic, since Mr. Sutanovac didn't get a chance to get a replica, Mr. Sutanovac was having talks where he was taking him. He didn't go to sing – forgive me, Catherine. He wasn't going to sing, he was going to talk. On the other hand, we want you to answer the questions that are on the agenda today, and that's how much you're really going to be in charge next year, what are you going to spend that money on? Is it true that 60,000 workers will be out of work? Is that true? Is it true that pensioners should not expect an increase in pensions for the next two years, i.e. that their real purchasing power will drop by at least 6% to 7%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29263	The word has a prime minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29264	As Mr. Djuric said, I like to pollute and it is not controversial, but don't be simple, don't be below the level of that controversy. What does that mean? I didn't go to sing? What are you saying? What's this about? If you want to insult me, find another way. You're smart enough to talk about it. That's not the way to discuss the budget in this way. If you don't have any other objections, I'm glad that's the main objection to this budget, although I haven't seen it stand as an item in the budget, related to musical proclivities. When it comes to these topics, DS is the party I've been working with. You ran economic policy in the last government. The Democratic Party had the finance minister, had the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic, had the defence minister and the governor, and had everything. What do you want? Who's to blame now if they weren't good or who's to blame if Dinkic was running your economic policy for you, and he wasn't in charge of it, so you're complaining about him? On the other hand, answer me, is it true that 400,000 people have been out of work since 2008? Answer my questions. Don't ask me what's gonna happen tomorrow. You're talking about duty. What is the duty between 29% and 58% of JPY in four years? I think what you want to criticize right now, is someone going to be out of a job. That someone else would ask, I could say – okay. You who forced this principle of privatisation at all costs, you who boasted that you privatised almost all enterprises, you talk about Milosevic. How do you have fewer employees now than during Milosevic's time? It's a success, isn't it? It's true, me and I last year in 1992. Who's to blame? Who's to blame, Mr. Shutanovac, for being in October? Woe to this country with this kind of political debate on this subject. God forbid we have a serious way of discussing this. Like this, we're switching to completely secondary themes. I will no longer participate in these controversys over this question of who sings better, who does what, etc. Although many of your officials have participated in these competitions, including the gentleman who casts them. My advantage is that we've all known each other for a long time. I'd like to call you if you have any serious objections to the budget, to go into debate and discuss all this, not to waste any time transferring whether it's polemic, replica, Rules of Procedure, etc. I'm ready to answer all the questions that concern me while I'm here. The ministers are here to answer. Today we have a follow-up with Gazprom. He comes to visit Milo Djukanovic, for the first time since the funeral of Zoran Djindjic. We have a visit to Bulgaria the day after tomorrow afternoon. There is a meeting in Brussels on Friday concerning the Brussels Agreement. If that is not available, there will be no date for the first Intergovernmental Conference, so I hope that this debate will go much easier than it was at the beginning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29265	Please, the Prime Minister doesn't call the MPs and thus challenge them to replication. We should keep working. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29266	I won't be long. Art. 27th and 107th. I agree with what the Prime Minister said. Poor country with a debate like this on such an important subject. I think dignity has been injured, Mr. Arsenovic, after which we insist so much on talking. Here in 20 minutes, the Prime Minister said 400,000 jobs were lost, his economy minister said 300,000 jobs were lost in his exhibition. How can we seriously conduct this debate with such big differences and such indifference? That's all I wanted to point out, and I'm not gonna use any more time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29267	Mr. Djuric, you know very well that I cannot enter the data from both the MPs and the prime minister and the prime minister. It's their thing that figures expose and they answer for it. I'm not responsible for that. In that sense, I believe there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29268	Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the most important law to be passed in one year and it should have a clear policy of colour and clear expert analysis. Speaking of our country's responsibilities over the last 50, 60 years, the fact is that the government, or your government that passed and this one was reconstructed, has charged 33% of the total debt, that from 15 billion euros we have come to nearly 20 billion euros. With your new projections, you plan to assign another 5.7 billion and 6 billion, respectively. By system – what a child knows is 11 billion euros, it is almost as much as we owed. All last year, you convinced us that you're in charge of repaying your debts. Now we owe ourselves cheaply to pay back our old debts and instead of debting the same way we owed it, we owe it 20 billion. The fact is that expenditure on interest payments is higher by 20.6 billion dinars, or 23%, compared to the 2013 rebalancing. That's the result of the government's borrowing. Mr Arsenovicu, you as a pensioner should be involved in this discussion, given that this government plans to increase pensions by 3.5% over the next three years, and inflation is projected to be a minimum of 10.5%. So every year, the standard of living for those who have a salary on the budget, which may be less important, and those who have earned that pension, will be lower by 3% to 4%. That's why we say that this budget is very bad, that this budget is neither developmental nor investmental. (President: Time.) ) This budget is a budget of the survival of the government, a budget with no ideas and no vision and a budget which obviously cannot be defended in an adequate way, but is mentioned in Milosevic's time, loss of jobs... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29269	Time. In the words of Mr. Dinkic, we end up with replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29270	Mr. Dacic, did you even read the budget? Did you even listen to what Radulovic said? Have you looked at the budget structure of the Ministry of Economy? Three hundred million euros in a situation where the state has no money is being thrown away.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29271	Mr. Dinkic, I beg you, do not go to Radulovic's presentation of the replica now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29272	I'm talking to Prime Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29273	Please, I gave you my word based on the mention of you by the Prime Minister. When there is a budget debate, then you can talk about Radulovic's presentation. Now you have no right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29274	The prime minister mentioned my name in the context of economic policymaking in the context of the previous period. That's exactly what I'm saying. Six times more subsidies for failed social enterprises in this budget than they were this year. Twenty billion dinars, mentioned and mentioned by Radulovic, are being dropped. It's a clean subsidy. It's not an investment. No investments for agriculture, no investments for healthy factories, and a check of about 20 billion dinars for former enterprises in restructuring, another minister in front of the living prime minister here says that the former social enterprises are the future of the Serbian economy. Mr. Dacic, where did you find this Minister of Industry? Well done. What needs to be done, since you've already mentioned debts, you don't have in your debt budget. I know you have to borrow to finance the current consumption, but why didn't you plan on early repayment of those most expensive loans Dacic is talking about right now? He's talking about expensive loans, and that's true, since 2008, but our remark is why is there no plan in the budget for early repayment of these expensive loans?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29275	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (Yes)The word has a People's MP, Žika Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29276	Thank you. Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would like to use my first minutes of address to ask my fellow Members to, if they have no respect for Mr. Arsenovic's age, at least have respect for the institution he represents here. We thus also show respect for the institution that we all represent together. I would also say at the beginning of my presentation that I see that too much concern has been shown since the beginning, at least in principle when it comes to spending money and the budget that we are talking about today, so I will remind you that today costs more than 50,000 euros from the taxpayers of our country, and I think it would be much more correct to use what they pay anyway for a debate that is part of the topic and that will define the spending of financial resources for next year, i.e. the adoption of the most important act adopted by this Assembly during the year. I would like to say at the beginning that it is impossible to predict everything when making the budget, but in addition, the impression remains that the government has made a responsible approach to this budget, that it has not decided on the root changes, but has cut as much as necessary. That's why this budget, apart from being extorted, is at the same time a reflection of reality and preventing, in the opinion of our parliamentary group, the state from going bankrupt. That is why our parliamentary group will support this budget and I would like to point out immediately at the beginning of my presentation. But I'm not going to use my speech to talk about budget praises, I'm going to try to stay on some of the issues that we don't think are so good at budgets. As we spoke a year ago from this same place when the debate on the adoption of the 2013 budget came true. We have warned of over-optimism, so today we have a very clear indication that the austerity measures the government has made have not led to a reduction in the budget deficit, because almost everything saved has been allocated to solving the long-term accumulated problems of public enterprises and banks. In the first place, "Srbigas", "The Railways", "Galenika" and the failed banks, such as "Vojvodine Development Bank", which are corrupt and boastful individuals that have led to the situation in which we are located, that all citizens of Serbia must allocate huge funds to recover the bank's debts. If it continues with this practice of fixing the biggest domestic losers, and we have had the opportunity to find out from the media that "Srbigas" has been stockpiling debts for several years and that it is more than a billion euros in debt, the budget deficit in 2014 and despite the introduction of a solidarity tax will increase rather than shrinking. In such circumstances, I think it's absurd to talk about cutting profits, especially about reducing pensions. I would refer to one segment of this budget, since it's impossible to talk about everything, at least not in 20 minutes, how much space and time we have to talk about. I'm going to look back on one of the topics that DHSP and DHSS talked about most. These are subsidies and a budget for agriculture. We believe that there is hardly a political factor in this country, a political campaign or any other event, and that agriculture is one of our most important developmental branches, and usually it is only in the story, but when the works come, it is not exactly like that. Unfortunately, in this budget, we also have an indication that the agricultural budget is reduced by three billion dinars, that it is slightly less than 35 billion, that, by calculating the overall budget, it's only 3.76% of the separation we have. I'm afraid then there are no political parties arguments to point out that agriculture is seriously accounted for and that agriculture is our chance. If we compare the allocations for agriculture with the railways and the roads, we'll see that these are huge financial resources that are less of a nuance than those for agriculture. When we look at what happened when it comes to roads and railways in the past period, then it will be clear to us that we know what our rails are like, we know what our roads are like, but never exactly when we adopt the budget we don't know what they're going to do when it comes to financing railways and roads, how many kilometers of roads are newly built, arranged, how slow our tracks are, and how long it's going to take. Finally, when we talk about the definition of financial resources, we never talk about who will take responsibility if these funds are not spent as planned. In the text of the law, except for Article 1 which mentions the rights and obligations of beneficiaries of the budget, no longer governs what these rights and obligations mean. It can be concluded for the rights that these are figures per division, but it would be necessary for the obligations to specify what they mean, what are the obligations of the beneficiaries of the budget, and what are the obligations of the responsible persons. So, what responsibilities and what sanctions are in the final instance. This may be a very good example to say and go along with Mr Dacic's proposal that we should make the following budgets in the long term, not just for the next year, so I suggest you immediately consider the proposal to introduce a liability provision in the next budget. I think it would be much easier to control and that all participants, i.e. All those who have this budget are much more responsible if they know what sanctions are if the budget is not implemented as it is written. We in Serbia have a real GDP growth of 1.4%, an increase in industrial production by more than 5%, a significantly higher amount, but we also have a huge decline in construction and up to 40%. If we know that by the nature of the works of the building and other activities, the situation of the negative effects on the overall economic movements is even greater. We, dear colleagues, have been facing difficulties in construction for several years, and in the coming period something must be done to restore this segment of the economy. In particular, we should be concerned about the real decline in traffic in trade to a little over 7.2%, which I believe is even bigger today, because it is a sign of the growing poverty of our citizens, many of whom unfortunately do not have any basic provisions of life. This reduced demand will be reflected in the production of goods, first of all, the broad consumption of supplies, which should ultimately result in a decrease in retail prices, but this is not happening and I personally think it is for at least two reasons. The first is, which is a large quantity of this goods from imports, and the price is formed on the basis of the course of the dinar towards the euro, and the second is, of course, our proverbial pain that we solve from year to year, and we cannot solve it, and that is the lack of competition, i.e.. the existence of a monopoly. On this plan, I think there is still work to be done, creating ambience for the arrival of large trade chains and for the competition between them, of which our citizens will benefit through lower prices and higher quality products. What is good is the growth of industrial production, exports and the table of the largest exporter tells us exactly how important it is for state incentives and investors who are willing to invest money in production. It is good that the Government did not give up on this measure and that the budget for the following year provided for the funds for these purposes. However, this measure will not be enough unless a more favourable business environment is created, and above all I think about what Mr Radulovic also said, deadlines for issuing building permits, simplifying various other procedures as well as the announced amendments to the Labour Act that we all expect much from. The government in budget reasoning says it will take measures to curb the grey economy, that it will not tolerate tax indiscipline. This is what we had the opportunity to listen to from year to year and no government has fulfilled the promise. However, I believe that this government will show better results than the previous ones, at least when it comes to curbing the gray economy, because it has shown them in some other fields where the exam has not passed the previous governments, which is the fight against corruption and crime. The government has also touched restructuring firms in the light of this law. I am sorry that Mr. Radulovic is not there, but I also want Mr. Krstic's reaction to this topic, because in this case it may best be seen how absurd this struggle is when we talk about enterprises in restructuring, in which the privatisation process did not give the desired effect and which, according to the Minister of Resort and all normal people, is the cancer of our economy. I ask the Minister of Economy, but since Mr Krstic is not here, does he know that in one of these companies, I am talking about the agricultural company "Alexa Shantic" is sitting in the executive chair of a man who, by decision of the Assembly of Shareholders, was replaced on 16 July this year, that the ministry has sent a personal map with untrue data, that today the company is one billion more than at the moment of the privatisation break-up? The debt is bigger than the assets of the entire company. How do we think we solve problems in such companies when, as a state that is the majority owner of 70% of actions, we can't establish legal status and governance bodies in such companies at all, which is just amazing. You have no support from the police, no support from the court. We can still see on the dissipating side of the budget that public enterprises are being subsidized with large amounts. I know we can't make successful businesses overnight from decades of losers, but do we have to subsidize them, their current business, their salaries where party personnel are simply piled up, or do we need to use that money to finance investment? I don't think reforms in public enterprises should be put off, because every day it costs a lot of money on everything as a society, and that's where the government needs to be encouraged, our parliamentary group gives full support when it comes to solving this problem, to get into this painful business as soon as possible. The example with banks teaches us that problems need to be solved as soon as possible, because delaying resolution only brings more damage. If the previous government had responded in time to problems in Agrobanka or the Vojvodine Development Bank, it is certain that we would not be in debt for 200m euros today, to capitalise on the Deposit Insurance Agency, or to issue bonds on the foreign exchange market, and thus to bury a hole of a few hundredm euros in damages done to the state. These examples need to be taught. It's a good thing that through the authorities of the police and the judiciary at least part of those responsible for this enormous damage is in the process of prosecution. Personally, I think, Mr. Prime Minister, that you as well as someone who was one of the most important factors in the last government should take responsibility in part for these things that were happening, because we didn't respond in time to them. I can't talk about all the budget positions and items, I'll just make a few observations. My colleague Chikiriz recently spoke about customs and how a little more control should be devoted to the situation in customs, what happens at customs crossings. The Customs Administration provides funds for construction and reconstruction of border crossings, but unfortunately, this year, the government has no intention of reconstructing the border crossing with Hungary, Baki Breg, which is also the closest road to the EU that our country has. Since 2006, on a proposal from the Interstate Commission, the two countries have made this transition, apart from the passenger, a ten-tonne burden, but we have done nothing since then to bring it into practice. The job on the Hungarian side is done, ours is not, and I think this is particularly important for the region of western Backe, as well as for the construction of the semi-road from Vrbasa to Bezdan and Backo Breg we are obliged to do. As per the spatial plan, an amendment was introduced, to my intervention, that the road must be built by 2014. It is clear that these two important projects are closely connected and their realisation would turn the economy of the Western Bačka district towards the European Union, and this area would become more attractive for investors who do not have many, some of them in Apatino, something in Odzac, but in Sombor, which has been the center of the district for years, none exists. In addition to the fact that Sombor has a good position, that there is even an airport for which only a little bit should be renovated to become a civilian, on two borders Sombor has a position, the investor has no, because there is no capable local authority with credibility that wants to improve its citizens. So the government's response in terms of realising the projects I'm talking about, so half the highway and the Bačka Breg border crossing would be desirable and I expect the government to find a way to at least start with the realization of this project in phases. It is good that the budget provides for the financing of important infrastructure projects, such as the traffic corridor 10 or part of the highway to the South Adriatic, because it is also very important for our economy directly through the employment of travel companies, but it is important because of the region through which the route will go, because these regions will make it more interesting for investors. What the government didn't do is remove a number of agencies and regulatory bodies from which we can see that in the budget, more than half of the funds are spent on employee earnings, which we have to agree on, pointlessly. It was a promise of the parties that make up this government, and that's why I call you Mr. Prime Minister and you and all of your members of the government to support when it comes to the budget issue, and the government itself to take measures to reduce the number of those bodies that simply draw money from a crisis like this. Public debt is a particular issue, and I believe that your ministry will find a way to further eliminate macroeconomic risks with fiscal consolidation so as to avoid a public debt crisis. It is necessary to introduce reform laws, not the marketing laws we've had enough so far, but those laws that will be implemented and ultimately give effect. What's most important is that investment growth is necessary, we've all talked about it, and I wouldn't spend any more words, except to have that investment growth, it's necessary to do a lot more to improve the economic environment. I'm going to say a few more things that I've managed to pull out, more taxingly, to remind both the competent minister and the prime minister that it's our obligation to implement the Restitution Act, that it's obvious that this law can't give effect, when we talk about the budget is much better and more quality, which we have warned from the SP and Mr Vladan Batic and the DHS that it is necessary to pass a fair law on restitution, where financial compensation will be minor, and that the substitution will be the one that will define the whole law, which will lead to citizens who have absolutely no benefit from the restitution, and that they do not single out any additional money when they question the compensation of those whose assets have been seized after World War II. It is good that annual inflation and growth in the euro are the lowest in the last few years. The increase in VAT from 8% to 10% is also considered, and we support you, Mr. Krstic, that at this point it is inevitable. Those who say they may not, I will remind them that in 2008, there were likely other elections, that in 2002 there was a double public debt, but today this increase is inevitable. We hope that this is one of the more successful measures in curbing the grey economy that has been eating up this country for years. It is also positive not to increase the rate of taxes in tourism. I think the minister showed good faith after talking to the men of the profession. I will end up thinking personally that there is no concern for 2014 if we meet what the ministry predicted. The measures provided for, even though they are state finances, we'll all agree, in a difficult situation. Otherwise, someone else will determine our next budget. We'll just have to pay off our debts, and the citizens will be left with what's left. This, ladies and gentlemen, is called bankruptcy and I believe that we will not get into this situation, but by looking at the entire budget as a document, we come to the conclusion that it is primarily focused on current consumption, less on investment, but these are obviously our opportunities for which all previous governments have been affected so far. In such circumstances, we have nothing left to do but support the budget with the reservation of the right to control the government as MPs during the year, and in this respect we give our suggestions and suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29277	The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29278	Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have one of the most important laws to discuss. I will state the views and opinions of the SVM parliamentary group on this law. We've heard several times that this budget is real. Our very word – it really loses its meaning when we just think of that fact that the Constitution is not respected either. In particular, we think it's the financial assets belonging to the AP Vojvodina. As you know, the Constitution says that 7% of the budget belongs to the AP Vojvodina. We believe that in this year and next year in the 2014 budget, these funds are not respected. We have heard that this budget is no better than the previous budget for Vojvodina. If you are realistic, then accept the amendments submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina and the problem with these realities about the amount of funds will be resolved. Our parliamentary group will surely support these amendments submitted by the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina. It may be a real budget, in some sense, but we've forgotten what environment we live in and where we live. It's simple to pass the law here, but to apply the law is harder. We've seen this in practice since we passed the Law on Public Enterprises. Unfortunately, we can't say he's in service. If we look at the budget ourselves, we see that the revenue side is increased, but unfortunately the spending side and we have a slightly higher deficit than we had this year. And to say, unfortunately, our parliamentary group will not vote for this law because we believe the funds for the AP Vojvodina are not respected. Let's get back to the whole budget. Like I said, we have a deficit a little higher than this year. The revenue side shows that we will have 930 billion dinars, and on the dispersal side 1.113 billion dinars. So the total fiscal deficit is about 183 billion dinars. We've passed the law for nothing to save when our expenditures are growing again. As for the loan itself, we've already had a few words about the loans he took, how much he owed. The truth is the reality that this government didn't exactly get ahead in this, but the previous governments unfortunately took loans that were at poor interest rates. This government will take loans and about 662 billion dinars. We will use this money to finance the deficit and to pay off the debt of foreign and domestic investors or creditors. If I look at the structure of these funds, then here it is indicated that 264 billion dinars will be taken as loans from domestic or foreign investors or creditors, and then we will make maximum use of 330 billion dinars by selling paper on the domestic market and 68.5 billion dinars on the foreign market. If we compare the previous budget, we see that as far as the loans were concerned, they took 77 billion dinars, and this is about a loan of 264 billion dinars. Those 330 billion dinars remained by selling paper of value on the domestic market. We have changes in the sale of securities from foreign market values. That's where it fell from 221 billion to 68 billion dinars. Now the question arises – what will these loans be, at which interest rates will we raise the loans? We know, as we've heard these loans will be reprogrammes for loans to current debts, to reprogram them. If we can take the loan, we take it at 1% interest and that's the cost. Anyone who lends credit won't give a loan indemnity. We can say that in our dreams. As for interest, unfortunately this expenditure has been growing for years. In this year, we have interest or interest expenditures of 114 billion dinars. That's for sure because grace periods expire on these loans that were previously taken. It should be noted that in 2012, we had 17 billion dinars spent on interest. In two years, we have an increase in expenditures of about 45 billion dinars. The fact is that in our country we have loans per capita or loans on loans of about 2,500 to 3,000 euros, and this will remain who knows how many more years. As regards the guarantees themselves, the 2013 budget provides for guarantees only to those public undertakings that will invest these guarantees in investments, not to maintain liquidity. That was a positive assessment at the time, but this budget shows that these guarantees are constantly growing. If we look at the 2013 draft budget and the 2014 budget, the growth of these guarantees has started from 41 billion dinars, and now we currently have 86 billion dinars. So, in a year's time, this kind of cost has increased about 100%, and we're surprised that we're slowly falling apart. If we were to look at all public enterprises at guarantees, we'd have all day to talk about it. I only mentioned the biggest problem – "Srbigas". We know that Serbia's currently owes about a billion euros. Unfortunately, we see in this budget that the government will approve another debt of about 200 million dollars. So, only this public enterprise will cost the country about 150m euros next year. And we're saving on the duchy's money. If we look at only a guarantee item in the budget, the IMF will certainly put it at the heart of their analysis. Because if I remember correctly, we have a deal with them that guarantees can only be up to 30 billion dinars. But I'm sure we have an excuse for that, too. As for guarantees in the EU, they are only activated and guarantees enter public debt, but unfortunately, with us every other guarantee is activated. If we look at the subsidies ourselves, here we have seen that the costs of subsidies will fall by about two billion dinars if we compare the budget with the year where we had the biggest drop in subsidies for agriculture and economy, which is about 10 billion dinars. As we have seen, the culture or the Ministry of Culture or the subsidies of culture will be increased by 7.5 billion dinars, which means that this difference between 2 and 2.5 billion falls from that 10 million. Last week we passed a company profit law, where we abolished subsidies for businessmen. I also said in the previous speech that it wasn't exactly a decision, but time will show whether you were right or not and how this decision will be assessed by investors. As we can see, in the Ministry of Agriculture this year or next year we'll have 45 billion dinars. We hope to see once that agriculture will get the 5% of the expenditure side of our budget. I would point out here, since agriculture is reduced subsidies but it is evident that more funds have been invested for investments than ever before, and these are certainly these Arab irrigation loans. I would once again say something about Article 13, there must be a law that we adopted last year, that we need to realise, that's the Law on terms of settlement of monetary obligations by commercial transactions between the public and the economic sectors. Last time I said it was about local self-government budgets. The budget shall include funds or money spent, and the real state of obligations to suppliers shall not be taken anywhere. Under this law that we have adopted, we cannot follow the obligations that occurred before 1 April of this year. As for the period from April 1st, I think the law is effective and local self-government pays their bills. But the question arises – how many debts have been accumulated here and how much is at the state level and what will be resolved or how will this problem be solved? How can we expect our businessmen to be safe in applying or paying taxes when our local self-government doesn't pay their bills? Surely we have a big problem, as far as tax discipline is concerned. I hope that in this year we will have a shift in this discipline and, as Mr. Minister said about the grey economy and the black market, that we will have several shifts in these categories. Our parliamentary group has submitted two amendments as far as the law itself is concerned. One amendment is based on funding for the election of national minorities, which will be next year. I think we left this out of the budget. It's about 50 million dinars. The second amendment is dedicated to building a theatre in Subotica, which is about 150 million dinars. The basis for the surrender of our amendment was signed a three-way contract between the AP Vojvodina, the government of Serbia and the city of Subotica. At least in this contract, signed in 2006, 45% of the government should finance, 45% of the province itself, and 10% of the city itself. Unfortunately, this contract has not been respected since 2009. I would return to the funds of the Vojvodina, as far as this law is concerned. We have pointed out that we will fight for the funds belonging to the AP Vojvodina, as it says in the Constitution. This is about 7% of our budget, and it's the same thing as three weeks of these funds, which should be invested in capital investments in the territory of the province. The draft budget totals the income tax of around 802 billion dinars. This should be the basis for this 7%. If we calculate, it's about 56 billion dinars. We keep saying that these aren't big funds for the republican budget, but they're very important to the province. The practice so far has been that these funds have been respected only on paper, but unfortunately, the money has not reached Vojvodina. If we look at the very structure of these funds that are intended for capital investments, I don't think we've got as much money there as we planned. Since 2007, about a billion euros have been denied Vojvodina. Mr. Prime Minister said the local roads of Vojvodina should be maintained. Of these funds, I think the Vojvodina could build all its local roads and take care of it. Unfortunately, as we have seen in the table, which is dedicated to these funds for Vojvodina, we see that capital investment funds amount to about 40 billion dinars. So instead of 56 billion dinars, we have 16 billion less than we're supposed to get. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, what about the Duke's money? What about these 16 billion dinars? It's not small money. If we look at the very fact that the Constitution also states that of these 3/7 assets should be employed for investment, for capital investments, 3/7 of these funds should be about 24 billion, and we, if we saw it well, have a billion to two billion for investment. So we're missing about 22 billion dinars for capital investments. As I said, the SVM parliamentary group will not vote in favour of this law, since unfortunately, no funds are respected this year that should be given to the AP Vojvodina. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29279	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29280	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry the prime minister had to hurry, as did Minister Radulovic, but never mind, you've already participated in this debate, I wish they could hear some things. Well, good. When it came to rebalancing last time, I did one analogy, where I said that when you're looking at someone's bank copy, you can figure out a lot about that person based on how he makes money, what he lives on, how he spends. You can also conclude a lot about Serbia then, on this basis, by looking at the budget of a wish. If we could imagine an imaginary Serb, so to speak, we'd see that it's a person who drinks a lot, smokes, is in poor health, is in debt to the greeners, and is supported by relatives from abroad. I think a year later, none of that changed, especially for us from Vojvodina, this is kind of a "year of groundhog" in terms of public finances. But, well, you're new and I hope you can work things out. The budget itself is a sublimation of some weaknesses and discrepancies from the past, but also beautiful desires for 2014 and 2015, although the deficit that you have predicted from 182 billion is a significant figure, we will not particularly apostrophe as a special problem, since the deficit does not mean much in itself. What is much more important, and the debate is also going in that direction, which is the economic policy that will be represented by this government, and in that sense it should also analyse the budget and budget deficit. Economic policy should, in any case, have a certain objective. Whether this goal is purely low inflation, regular public debt service, a stable course, that's certainly what foreign creditors are interested in. What should be of interest to all of us living in this country is to reduce unemployment from 25% and 30% to maybe 5% of the day, to an increase in average earnings, to an increase in the investment rate within GDP and to economic growth at the level of other developing countries of 7, 8, 10%, not a percentage or two. It's an economic policy we'll always support. So the budget itself needs to be viewed as part of a wider story. The measures you've announced, we've already had the opportunity to discuss it, and the intention of putting order into public finances, certainly for respect, but the way it is, we can talk about it. A ban, minors, public sector employment has been introduced. I appealed that this measure would not lead to special results. The revaluation of salaries and pensions has been reduced, a solid tax has been introduced, and a tax credit has been abolished for investment in legal persons, in terms of profit tax. All in all, the measures may be hasty, and we find them very administrative, bureaucratic and difficult to lead to any more serious results in the long term. We've always been against centralism, and we think it's a big problem in our country's functioning. You are now in a position to face it yourself, however capable you are and to have a 72-hour working day, you cannot process all decisions, and you cannot make timely and adequate decisions in terms of solving all problems, simply no one has that capacity. The level of decision-making with you in all ministries in the republic is so great that simply no problem can be solved without the Republic government, and that ban on employment, or a new body is being formed that will now determine who and when they can hire, is one of the measures that we specifically urged not to introduce. The fiscal council has already taken a rather thorough look at the proposed budget. I think that, as so far, the topic is the expenditure side, not the income, especially in terms of large public enterprises, where without serious reform of corporateisation, departisation, and everything that has been talked about in principle, there will be no results. There is, of course, the first place in Serbia, which is owed to banks of 800m euros, and will now be charged with an additional 224th total of funds to be paid on the basis of poor functioning of public enterprises, i.e. covering losses. Last year, 560m euros, according to the Fiscal Council report, and an additional 630m euros for 2015. Railways, we all know what the situation in Railways is, that the trains in Serbia are on average moving at speed as well as the first train between BiH and Manchester, which is the European bottom. JAT's out, we've opened up a new airline. I was personally against it, because I don't think much bigger countries can have their own airline that has both domestic traffic and a large number of tourists, etc. We now have an airline that has one plane. We'll see if it'll be something that will ever make a profit. Galenika, Jelizara, is there a solution, some kind of investor. Last time the privatisation was done as it was done. These people later responded and criminally, as far as I know, and it was declared an extremely poor transaction across the state of Serbia. But now we see that it is making tens of millions of euros in losses and that in its history it has never worked positively except at a time when "Ju-es style" was there. I don't know if there's a solution. The "Serbian Roads", etc., but we are witnessing that they continue to allocate funds for subsidising certain companies on the party key. Minister Radulovic also announced that he would clear up with all enterprises in restructuring, but here we had an example of Simpa, which will again address the state's cost of resolving large, accumulated liabilities. It's a big number, so-called. Zombie companies in Belgrade that can't even cover interest, let alone pay off debts. I think you're going to have a hard time solving this in just a year, but both you and Mr. Radulovic, in any case, I want happiness in that segment, especially if 200 to 300 thousand people work in these companies, and I think we're going to have a hard time finding the means to solve this social problem. Agriculture, subsidies have been reduced. The method of subsidisation is something that should be analysed, given that they are now distributed linearly, based only on total land. I think we should look back at the possibility of subsidizing intensive cultures. We, by average, are the size of the average property at the very bottom of Europe. I think he's about four to five acres away. The only country similar to us is Italy, but the structure of their agricultural production is drastically different because they are more focused on fruit growing and on other branches. They have agricultural exports in several billion euros. I think that the way of subsidisation itself should be very well reviewed and orderd in the sector, although given how much resources were allocated to these failed giants, more significant resources could also be allocated to agriculture. Local self-government, transfers to local self-government every year the way these transfers are carried out, also very questionable. There is a law on funding local self-government, but I'm not sure that it respects some local self-governments getting more funding from some less, but it's also done solely on the basis of political interests that largely depend on who makes the ruling majority. As far as the revenue side of the budget is concerned, they announced the suppression of the grey economy, which I said in the last debate, is not the problem of the grey economy of some other colors being red, black, blue, etc. I don't think Serbian citizens like to go shopping on fleas, I don't think the Chinese are the biggest threat to our fiscal system. And I think that the general burden of the private sector is extremely large and the grey economy is booming for some other reasons, the burdens only for profit when you look at, one private sector employee supports one pensioner and another person in the public sector it is an unsustainable situation and people are forced to deal with things, or that the grey economy is not something that comes from people's desire not to pay taxes but from a difficult economic situation. Other revenues in the budget are excises and VAT from imports, also a large income that leads me to think in the case of a unstable rate of dinar, so to speak, in what connection is the rate of dinars which I am not sure is on an adequate level, or perhaps a little overestimated and whether devaluation of dinars would lead to a reduction in VAT revenue, from imports, as VAT from imports is higher than income tax on additional value from domestic consumption. The revenues from state assets and the profits of public enterprises are also something we mention every year that should be significantly higher within the budget. What is extremely worrying about anyone who analyses our economic perspective, and I think Mr. Radulovic would have to know, is the situation in our economic sector, alongside public and private debt. Within the banking sector for which the state is redistributing funds, but not in a plannedly organised way, or to cover losses, 30% is poor placement within the active banks in Serbia. The projections range from 25% to 30%, with them constantly increasing. Our entire economy is undercapitalized, and I think that the biggest problem is that today, if you want to deal with any economic activity in Serbia, you can very hard to get the funds, given that the capital market is barely there, and in banks you can only be in charge of extremely high interest rates that are over 10% on the euro, which is hardly any business plan can handle. We, if we are in opposition, are not at the point of view – the worse, the better, because I think everyone living in this country would have to make some concrete suggestions on how to get out of this situation. We proposed that during the election, a new governor should be established an entity at the level of the state where a complete bad bank activity would be removed and it was done in almost all countries, in order for the financial sector to be organised and it would have to work normally, and later trade with these bad customers, or they would be reprogrammed or converted into capital. There are different solutions. Nothing about it has been done. Now we're in a situation where the whole real sector is practically a hostage of the financial sector. We also proposed an increase in the mining rent paid by NIS at 3%, and more are paid by the Russians from where Gazprom comes to us, no one can, or fear, or for any other reason, can even start that topic with them. No formal request has been made for them in the sense of even talking about an increase in ore rent, taxation of short ownership is also something you might consider. The increase in the profit tax of the financial sector, the formation of a state-owned land fund, and this is also an initiative that will be translated into a legislative proposal, but there are 500,000 hectares of agricultural state-owned land, which could serve as an excellent collateral for the emissions of securities from values or the collection of funds, which could reach 700m or 800m euros of new funds to invest in agriculture or perhaps clean up the Danube-Tisa-Dunav channel, there are various projects that could enter the programme. Also, we don't see why some groups of entrepreneurs, like lawyers, don't pay taxes, why religious communities don't pay taxes? I think it's mostly political issues, but if we're all going to try to financially stabilise the country together, we're going to have to talk about it again. As far as the Vojvodina is concerned, every year is the same story. You're the new minister now. What is obvious is that there is disunity in Serbia on many issues, but when it comes to Vojvodina, and unity is remarkable. All parties, parties based in Belgrade, are always unique in view of the fact that Vojvodina should not get that constitutional minimum either. The paradoxical situation is that we LSV and LDP colleagues, who were the only ones against the constitution, are now insisting that the constitution which did not receive most of the Vojvodina is respected. Transfers are for nonexistent jurisdiction, you know that. For what Vojvodina has received jurisdiction, the funds are not transferred and 7% is based on, the mere form is fulfilled, this system is not invented, it is a system that exists for many years and our relationship to this budget will be based on whether amendments coming from the Vojvodina Assembly will finally be respected once and will be transferred to the province for the powers prescribed by the Constitution. I hope that the law on the financing of Vojvodina, as well as the Law on the financing of local self-government, will soon see the light of day, because I think there is no need for us to return to the same topic every year when we want to be part of that same Europe where both regions and the province and local self-government have a very clear purpose. I think we should analyze a complete system of funding for the entire state, where the funds would be collected first at the level of the locals, and then transferred to the province and to the Republic based on different competences, and not vice versa, from up to down as is the case now. I think it's a law that had to be passed long ago. But now you will have the opportunity to finally correct that decades-old injustice, so to speak, and finally all levels of government in our country begin to function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29281	The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29282	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, here's this picture of you, this cathedral of yours, I think it's a good indicator that we don't really understand each other, I mean the government's attitude towards parliament. I don't see what could be more important today than a budget debate. Since you, Mr. Minister, are not an accountant of the government, but a minister of finance, I don't know how we're going to be able to discuss economic policy today. It's nice that he was prime minister, so he's gone, he's got some work to do. We know the Prime Minister of Montenegro is coming, but I don't know what you're holding today's budget debate, if that's more important than the budget debate. He was the Minister of Business, and he's got a lot of work to do, rather than talking to us here. So I'm not sure, Mr. Minister, how are we going to discuss agricultural policy now, industrial policy, when are we going to talk about energy policy? Why isn't there a Minister of Health and a Minister of Education here, because they're big budget users, or they manage systems that spend a very significant part of this money. I'm truly sorry that you're in a rather unpleasant situation that you can't answer all the questions. I think it's a budget debate on economic policy, and I don't think that's some wisdom, but here I just want to say at first why I don't really agree with the draft budget we're discussing today. Because we can't see at the Parliament Club together for Serbia, we can't see what the answer is and what the plan is. Saving, greeting and supporting, but where's the development? What's the development plan? With incomes like this we have with the necessary expenditures we have, including the necessity to cover all the anuities, however we are in charge and whoever is in charge, and I don't see anyone innocent sitting in this House or who's been in politics in Serbia for the last 30 years. I suggest that, if possible, we spend a lot more energy and heat on what we're going to do and how to open up a space for development than on a historical retrospective about it, because everyone here would have something to say. I think, Mr. Minister, that there are at least seven very clear directions where this country's economy could develop, and that it's developing in harmony and well, and that we finally get out of this vicious circle where we're between 30 billion and 35 billion euros of GDP every year. Here I have been listening for more than 20 years that we can't get to 85% of the 1989 GDP, of a golden age, at least that's how it stayed in the memory of Serbian citizens. Agriculture, energy, mining, IT sector, tourism and, you may wonder, I'll say a few words about it, health and education. These are the directions, I believe, according to the ZZS parliamentary club, the development of Serbia. I'm going to give a little example at the very beginning. Three, four weeks ago, we put a proposal here to discuss a potential investment in NIS that's about $650 million. If the Panchev refinery were subject to that kind of reconstruction, it would be the order of the most modern refineries in Europe and the world. I'll remind you that last year NIS had over $500 million in profits, but it processed more than 50% of domestic oil. If it hadn't been for domestic oil, if he'd just processed foreign oil, the loss would have been $200 million instead of $560 million. Today there are no guarantees that in five years there will be domestic oil. There are assumptions, but no guarantees. If this investment doesn't happen, I'm afraid that in five, six years we can meet the situation we have in Smedereva, where the Americans left off, when they stopped making profits, they went into losses. What am I saying this for? Because, Mr. Minister, according to data, which is public in the first nine months, in the first three quarters, foreign direct investments in Serbia are $526m, euros, pardon. You didn't travel much. The Prime Minister has gone several times, making it to America, to European countries, to Russia. Deputy Prime Minister Vukic also made great efforts in Asia, Europe, America. All together 526m euros. I asked that in this assembly, where the place is, on the Energy Committee, we discuss an investment by the largest company this country has, about an investment that is larger than any foreign direct investment this year, that is, in the first nine months. As far as I can tell, since I know the president of the Committee is working hard, there's no time for the Minister of Economy, there's no time for the Minister of Energy, she didn't tell me that you don't have time, but you've been working on the budget, so you have an excuse. Also, I asked that Mr. Bacevic, as Minister of Mining, be at the debate. This is a picture of us not using the energy we have. Of course we have to fight everyone for foreign investment, but what I'm convinced of is that we don't use at least what's around us, what we can run and how we can get to the development, employment and better lives of people. Agriculture, I speak for the fifth time in this assembly of parliament, 10.5 billion euros in agricultural-based GDP. Potential – 100 billion euros. One hundred billion euros in Serbia's potential in food production. Irrigation, Mr. Minister. You don't remember when the government was reconstructed, I was talking, you just entered this parliament, now I'm telling you the second time, I told your predecessors three or four times in this assembly of parliament. We need 3.5 to four billion euros to ensure that millions and 100,000 hectares of land in Serbia have irrigation and disposal systems. What kind of developmental opportunity? What chance for those who are going to do this, and what wealth for the country when with 200,000 acres a million and 100,000 acres of land with irrigation and draining systems? I'll remind you, Mr. Minister, that the state owns 800,000 acres of land, farm farmland, 800,000 acres of farmland. Over a million acres of forest is state-owned. How do we use this force of property and turn it into an instrument of development? A thousand six agricultural engineers helped in over 300,000 families in 2011. In 2012. We've raised the number of those who receive subsidies from the state from 85 grand to 250 grand. These people don't work for the state today. Only the cost of registered agricultural holdings, in order to complete the basic administrative procedures necessary for them to reach subsidies, exceeds the cost that should be available from the budget for 1,600 agronoms to be re-engaged by the state. Another little picture. In 2011 and 2012 16,000 agricultural holdings received credit subsidies. Credits cost 8% in 2011 and 6% in 2012. The state spent about sevenm euros on interest subsidies. The sevenm euros produced 150m euros in loans, for machinery, for equipment, for crafts, for whatever. Mr. Minister, I don't know how to get you without the Minister of Agriculture, to answer us, there's some kind of credit line with the United Arab Emirates, there's something for irrigation, there's something for loans, I don't understand what this is about. It would be good for the agriculture minister to explain what he was planning to do in 2014. What has been planned for agriculture in the budget division has been reduced. How are we going to organize this largest, potential, economic area that we have in the country? The agriculture deals with 2.5 million people in Serbia. It's the poorest part of the public. Poverty among people who deal with agriculture is twice as large as the rest of the people. There's no answer. That's why we can't vote for the budget. There's one clear question that I can't get an answer to -- why is there no mining strategy? There's one draft strategy that was over two years ago. Mining, 4.5 billion euros by 2020 can be invested in the area. There, Mr. Minister, 4.5 billion euros in irrigation, 4.5 billion euros by 2020 in mining -- nine billion euros. Who does that? There's no answer. Development. There's a big problem with saving. Savings must be carried out, that's clear to everyone. Someone can say it, they can't say it. Here, I say, yes, it must be saved. But when you cut down, Mr. Minister, they pay the doctors, when you cut the salaries to the professors, when you cut the salaries of the people who take the highest positions in the state administration, you can't expect anything but the mood and pessimism that spreads among the people. The cure for this pessimism is a development plan, a clear development plan that we can follow together, both you and your colleagues in the government and we here in parliament and every citizen of Serbia, what we did in the first three months of 2014, at the end of 2014 and in the years to come. Energy. I asked the Minister of Energy a few months ago here, how much electricity will be produced from renewable energy sources, primarily from biomass in 2014? How much during 2015? There's no answer. I respect that ministers are politicians and that they should deal with politics. I don't have any problem with that because that's how it is, and I understand Ms. Secretary's engagement on all sorts of issues in society, but it's necessary to sit here today so we can have a debate about what's going on in energy, what are our plans. I want to tell you, Mr. Minister, that hundreds of thousands of families can provide themselves with new income also in energy, no matter how strange it may be, because over 1.3 million people own forests in Serbia. That's why, as I said, 2.5 million people are engaged in agricultural production, so there are leftovers from agricultural production. It is money, over two billion euros at least every year rotted in Serbia's forests and remains in Serbia's fields because we are a country, a system, a political system, an economic system, whatever you want, which is not capable of turning it into development, into money and a better life. Mr. Minister, between Kursumlia and Merdard is the rarest populated territory in Europe. Merdara is a border line, administrative between Kosovo and Serbia, and between Merdar and Podujevo, which is on the other hand, a few dozen kilometers away, is the densest populated territory in Europe. There are no residents in the municipality of Kursumli in 50 villages. As some MPs here have said, since the new constitution was brought in, debates are being held year by year without any chance of success on whether the Republic has transferred 7% to the Vojvodina or not. This debate will never end, since the Republic can never transfer 7% of the money to Vojvodina, because that's impossible. You can accountingly close it whenever you want and you can not break the law. Basically, that's not possible. Serbia needs to change the constitution. This is not a political and stand up system that can make it possible to develop. With this constitution in Kursumlia, they will not begin development, neither in Kursumlia, nor in Dimitrovgrad, nor in Užica, nor in Subotica, nor here in Old Town or in Vrakar. Therefore, Mr. Minister, it is a pity that there is no Prime Minister and Vice-President of the Government and all economic ministers here, because this is not an accounting debate on whether you are well under the line and above the line for both the IMF and the World Bank and the Fiscal Council made a good account. You're a smart man, I have no doubt you've calculated this well. This isn't math. This is life and this is politics. Let's start talking seriously about politics, about development, about how we have to save so we can develop, about how to save, how to save in solidarity, how to see where we're going, about how in this country a huge number of doctors can make extra income by legally and arranged to get the services of dentists, Maxiofial surgeons, ophthalmologists, laparoscopic operations, and whatever you want, because we have exceptional doctors. There's always a theme in the paper whether someone took 100, 200 or 300 euros and would end up in jail. There could be several tens of thousands of foreign students in this country. I've had a lot of criticism about what this country has looked like 50 years since World War II on here, but these criticisms are also a thing for historians. What's left behind? A good voice and good emotion remained in a huge number of countries in Asia, Africa, Latin America towards Serbia, as they see Belgrade and see Serbia and somehow seem to be Yugoslavia. Why am I saying this? Because tens of thousands of foreign students can come to Belgrade to school. We can have an exceptional export product, our brains and because we can bring in very good professors, like you, Mr. Minister, who came back from a well-paid job, with the extraordinary education you have, because in Belgrade it's cheaper to live than in Paris, Rome and London. People who would teach here, visiting or whatever, at our universities could make more money than where they're working right now and take advantage of the good situation we have. Let's think about life a little bit and open up the opportunity for people to live well. Of course it's important how much we're in a billion deficits now and what we're going to do, but life is more important and it's important where we're going, can we get there? Therefore, Mr. Minister, as I said in these laws, it is not possible to take another two billion cities and municipalities in a bad way, accountingly, 30% of the money that is qualified as a subsidy in the budgets of local self-government has been reduced to everyone equally. What it says is that subsidies are actually investments. When the city or municipality paves the street, it is a subsidy to some kind of enterprise for the roads of the city or the municipality, when it builds a plumbing or sewerage, it is a subsidy to a water and sewer company and whatever else. You favor those who are not good because they have too many employees, instead of helping them enter the system and punish those who are very good, who do not have too many employees, who do not subsidize public enterprises that have losses, but direct money into development. Mr. Minister, the key word is development, to save as much as we have to, anything for development to give what we can. When I'm in one of your budgets, and I'm sure that's what's going to happen to some tax bill, I see that you've turned to development, that you've managed to convince your government colleagues that they have to sit here so we can discuss it, I'll be happy to vote for your legal proposals. This time, the joint parliamentary club for Serbia will be against the draft budget law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29283	Thank you. The word is by MP Velimir Stanojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29284	The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, when we are discussing the 2014 Budget Proposal should at least briefly analyse one environment in which this budget was created. The general situation where the public debt on 30 September 2013 amounted to around 19 billion euros, an external debt of around nine and a half billion euros, and the state of public debt under which the state of Serbia is guaranteed almost three billion euros, in a generally difficult economic situation, in a difficult state of public finance, which, as it has been largely criticised at the expense of next year's budget, should, if nothing else, respect the government's goal of changing the way fiscal policy is conducted in this difficult time, thus ensuring conditions for even the country's gradual recovery. When it comes to the budget, whether it was at the level of units of local self-government or state, there is always a controversy whether it has components of development, investment, social. Simply, the situation in our country is currently such that the government has created and is proposing to us today the budget simply as is the appropriate time in which we live, i.e. what must be, or one extorted budget. I say, given that there has been a lot of controversy and criticism on the account of this budget in the current course of the debate, it should be said, and what is positive and what we in the New Serbia parliamentary group think is positive, and therefore we will also support the budget for next year, that by the assessment of the proposings, and also by the assessment of a large part of the professional public, I am thinking primarily of the Fiscal Council, this is a real budget, or that it is a proposal, that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Finance has seen the whole situation and that we finally had to come to the fact that we have to take account of how much we spend, i.e. in proportion to how much we earn. Therefore, this package of measures that we adopted a few days ago is in general envisaged for the country's economic stabilisation, which the government brought in October of the month and aimed at the general consolidation of state finances, looking at both the revenue and expenditure side. Of course, when we talk about expenditures, everyone looks at it from their own perspective, whether from the level of state, public enterprise, local self-government, other budgetary indirect or direct budget users. Few people talk about incomes, actually, about what contributes to filling the budget register. That's why we were able to declare a whole package of measures to help stabilise public finances over the next few years. When we look at the revenue side of the budget, we can see a few key measures. First, what I think is good is that the government recognized the rise of the grey economy, the general financial indiscipline, or that it was going towards introducing zero tolerance for non-compliance with the law and introducing much stronger tax and financial discipline. I think, however, that this is one of the biggest risks of budget revenues for next year, because it's just very hard to predict how much it's really going to be, how much it's going to get on this basis. We know that this requires coordinated action by all state authorities, primarily by the control authorities, so that, with regard to these measures, full support should be provided and every contribution made. I think the number is something that could be a risk to budget income for next year. On the other hand, what is quite clear is that the introduction of a solidarity tax, i.e. in a way and the reduction of public sector employment of over 60,000 and 100,000 dinars, is that it is simply something that can be calculated, that it is 180,000 users and that, based on that, around 100 million euros can be additional revenues in the budget, just as we are talking about increasing the VAT rate from 8% to 10%, that it is around 21.5 billion dinars in projection. What needs to be apostrophysed in particular, with regard to the expenditure side of the budget, and most treated by this expenditure side of the budget, is the aim of reducing public spending, i.e. indexing the income of public sector employees and pensions, however unpopular, this is, however, the largest public spending factor in our budget. On the other hand, when we talk about subsidies, we can observe subsidies on multiple sides. What is my objection is why we put subsidies in the same basket when subsidies for the liquidity of public enterprises are in question or subsidies for unprivatised enterprises, i.e. enterprises that are in the restructuring phase, under the portfolio of the Privatisation Agency and, on the other hand, we have subsidies for agriculture, which one of the predecessors spoke of. In the budget, we can see that as far as subsidies for agriculture are concerned, they even proposed this budget and maintained a more or less similar level from last year, but I must say that when we talk about farm subsidies from the local level, it is not the original jurisdiction of local self-government units, but simply because of agriculture as a strategically important branch in the largest part of our country, many local self-government units simply allocated significant funds for subsidies for agriculture, even some of the most underdeveloped groups. Here, I had an opportunity with colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture a few months ago to be present in Srlig, one of the most economically underdeveloped municipalities in our country, and where those entire 10% of the budgets were allocated to development projects in agriculture. We have a situation that some more developed local environments will continue this trend, but these underdeveloped ones probably won't be able to. Practically, by putting into a basket subsidies and for the liquidity of public enterprises and some development projects such as subsidies for agriculture, we practically punish those agile and active local self-government. It is clear that there is insufficient funds for capital allocations for investment in the budget due to the general public finance crisis. I agree with the government's policy to go to concessions, to go to public-private partnerships. Let me remind you again, we're going back a few years. We had a chance to build the Corridor 11 six, seven years ago from concession funds. The political will did not come to the realization of this concession, so we were now, several days ago, to vote in favour of an international loan to start that investment, which, if that concession had occurred, would have probably now been completed. When it comes to restructuring firms that are in the restructuring phase, I am left to believe that this process will be completed by half of 2014. Simply, such economic operators should be removed from the budget, that is, the objective, but the country's excessive objective should be to make public enterprises, i.e. economic operators, generators of economic development, not budget consumers. I would especially like to point out when funding local self-government is at stake, that is, the Law on the financing of local self-government. That's what I was talking about, Mr. Minister, and at one of the preparation meetings I was talking about. It is quite clear that the 2014 budget should follow structural reforms and that there will probably be changes to the Labour Act here, then the Law on bankruptcy, the Law on Banking Procedure, the Law on Planning and Construction, but it is my suggestion that you are seriously considering amending the Law on the financing of local self-government. All these subsidies that I was talking about today, the fact is that our local self-government will be denied by 30% less non-intentional transfers from the Republic of Serbia's budget on the very name of these subsidies. I don't want to repeat that what local self-governments used these subsidies, some for development projects, but now they're treated as that 45-subsidised continent and simply remain deprived of those funds. In fact, the Law on the financing of local self-government was adopted in 2007, in my opinion in a rather transparent way, however, it suffered changes in 2009 when the entire 15 billion dinar transfers to local self-government units were reduced and certain criteria were passed. Mr Minister, I strongly advise you to approach the draft amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government after this budget has been adopted, because we will simply come up with a horizontal imbalance in the development of individual units of local self-government, i.e. drastically changing criteria. Local self-governments are also one living system, they will all have a consequently difficult business from the aspect of functioning in their budget, since 2014, not only as a result of the adoption of this budget, i.e. the reduction of transfers, but only to remind you that there has been a change in the rate of contribution and income tax, by reducing part of the tax belonging to local self-government units, as well as a series of parafiscal burdens that we have voted on, as regards the income of local self-government units. So, at the same time, the adoption of a new law should also monitor the functioning, especially of those small underdeveloped environments, because their budgets I am sure will suffer during the coming year. Certainly, the New Serbia parliamentary group believes that you have proposed a real budget for us today. You said a few days ago that you predicted he wouldn't have his rebalancing, so he's well-planned. Personally, I would like you as finance minister in the coming period to have the opportunity to propose a better, much better development budget, and I am sure that this is both your desire and your desire for the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29285	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29286	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, before I begin the debate on the budget, I would like on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group to express great satisfaction and respect in the way the session of the Assembly is held by Vice-President Konstantin Arsenijević. I am doing this because of the way we notice that there is discrimination in this House against MPs who are in decent years. Please, let us have respect and dignity for what someone in their life has done and the way he does it. That's exactly what I want to run out here at the very beginning of my exposure. I will continue on the 2014 budget. We are already having a debate on the budget, in the previous week we ran about the 11 laws that followed the budget laws for 2014 and today we continue to do so. It's hard to say something new after so many days of big debates and what's not already said. But let me give you a grade. The 2014 budget is really an expression of our reality and it has its mildly restrictive, mild investment and mild social component. Why am I saying this? Because we have to and because this government and this position acknowledges that Serbia is in a deep economic crisis and that real and true things are seen, all things in this budget. That's what I'm saying because in this budget we have income above the line and income below the line, which is often put under the carpet and data that were not the relationship of reality has been provided. I do not think that with this, we will come out of the difficult economic crisis that we are in, however, I believe that with one policy, one step at a time, one step at a time, we need to get out of the crisis, of course, with the necessary painful and unpopular reforms, the measures that await us and which the Social Democratic Party of Serbia is ready to endure and give full support. We have to stress even further. Serbia continues to spend more than it does, and this should end, because if we continue this way we will certainly enter into an unfavourable scenario, the country's bankruptcy scenario. We cannot allow this, but getting out of this crisis will not be easy, nor fast, and that is exactly what needs to be stressed and constantly stressed, because if we have made turns in certain policies, turns in anti-corruption and crime policies, turns in politics towards Kosovo, we can also make a turn in economic policy as well. We need to do this for a simple reason so that Serbia has a chance to get out of the situation it is in. It has been said and I stand behind that these 929.9 billion revenues are more realistic and, of course, they're likely to come true. But this time the revenues are not optimistically presented and are also not presented for a simple reason, because they will not generate new consumption. I mean, and this in this House should say that the Fiscal Council gave a very real assessment of the implementation of the budget and also gave projections for 2015 and 2016. We need to be very careful and read what the Fiscal Council said, because I think he's giving us a way out of this situation where we are. What are you saying? In Serbia, there is a gray economy and we have a drop in VAT collection, regardless of whether we raised VAT from 18 to 20, from 8 to 10, the VAT drop is evident and it is indeed present throughout our practice. We also have a drop in fees, and also a lack in the work of the tax administration. I ask the question – can the tax administration have one reform approach, transform it, that people in the tax administration can be stimulated for work that works. Everywhere in the world there are two things developed in the normal world, where we tend to have two things that are respected. It's tax pay and the second is of course inevitable, which is whether you'll be alive or not. It's a matter of death. In our case, the tax is some kind of colloquial obligation, I want to pay, I don't have to pay, and what's most difficult is we have all kinds of strategies that we make up, and that's about the fact that zero tolerance, forgiveness of taxes, etc. We also have a situation that some director, or not some, but a director of the tax administration who came from Slovenia, whose results in Slovenia, I don't know what they were, but he also asks some to pay taxes, instead of acting in accordance with the law and that these taxes are charged to the state in a way that goes. I have to point out that the gray economy is really high, 30% is something that really stings the eyes with the tendency of further growth. I don't want to emphasize what it was about tobacco, cigarettes, etcetera, which are smuggling activities. I don't want to stress how many cars go to Hungary for goods in Segedin, where it's much cheaper and I ask a legitimate question – why do we, when we go abroad, just surprise ourselves how low the prices are than they are in Serbia? Here in Serbia, we have very low wages and high prices for both food goods and textiles and other products. Of course, the deficit is big, enormous, and that's certainly what hurts us very much, 5.8 billion borrowings, that's really big. Can the state save? Of course. That's what she showed. The effects of savings in 2013 are already visible and above all in public procurement. Public procurement, the law we passed last year yields results, perhaps not the results we expected, but in these public procurements, it can really save a lot. There are many irrationalities in the country. First of all, in employment, in public enterprises, in local self-government, in education, in health care and in agencies. It's just amazing that we still don't have the exact number of different agencies that we have in our country that are founded and we don't know what they're doing. There's a chance of saving. We're going to save in restructuring companies. I really accept that. I accept because we have companies that have been in restructuring for a long time. However, I am sorry that there is no Minister of Economy, if we have the ID cards of these companies to see which of these companies can survive, I insist that the state is exactly where we invest where we can produce products and in the metal industry, in other areas where we can export production. If a company can't survive, it's perfectly logical, and the SDPS will accept that these companies go bankrupt. I will not talk about "Serb Railways" about the many rationalities that exist there, also in "Gelenica", how our largest drug factory that has produced good drugs, cheap drugs, was found in this situation, and no one is responsible for it. I also want to say about some companies that are bankrupt. Last week I was in PIC Vienna, as long as I'm a National MP, I'll be talking about PIC Becay. Why? It is the PIC, which has 1,400 employees, 8,000 state countries, the most quality country, which exists in Europe, which is in charge of 38m euros, due to wrong privatisation. I ask the question - if we don't know we're producing planes, if we don't know we're producing helicopters, but we know we're producing food on those 8,000 acres of quality land where there are significant farms I insist that we find a solution as soon as possible. The agricultural combination that is misprivatised, which is now in a difficult situation, means a lot to the city of Vienna and the 1,400 employees. That city lives off that combination. I always point out if Vojvodina has any advantages. That's first and foremost the Danube, that's Fruska Gora and the third is PIC Vienna. Generations have created this PIK Becay, and I hope that this PIK Becay will survive and produce quality food, not to eat the various foods the import lobby brings us and we find ourselves in a situation where we have to pay it at very high prices. As SDPS, and we're going to support this budget, we're sure of it, and I have to point out the next thing -- it's a very big borrowing, we're not against borrowing, if those funds go into job creation and employment. Serbia's main problem is to hire Serbia, to create a new real sector that will work, to create new goods that will be for export, and also to invest some of these funds in capital investments, rather than invest in consumption as was the case so far. I can't say one thing - for interest next year we will give 114 billion, in 2015 135, and in 2016 165 billion. For all subsidies in agriculture, we give 35 billion, and we say that pensions are the main problem, and pensions are allocated from the 260 billion budget, so the question is, is it still borrowing in a way that Serbia will end up working for foreign creditors, because this debt is going to increase extensively and it will be difficult to get out of this situation? After this information on interest on foreign loans, I find it difficult to say something too much about this budget for the simple reason it is something to be burdened with and will certainly burden Serbia's economy in the coming period. Let's see who is most responsible for the consequences of irresponsible economic policies from previous years? Well, first of all, pensioners, public sector employees, are also employed by private people. The question arises – can we get out of these problems with some of the solutions we can offer? First of all, there's been a lot of talk about the pension fund, the way these funds are spent, the way this fund is managed. I must stress that these 606 billion pensions, remember these pensions people have earned from their personal incomes, paid out, and they are not responsible for the state's irresponsible policies, unresponsible development of those funds spent on who knows which areas, that pensioners are now in a situation where with such small pensions they have to bear the burden of economic stabilisation, or as we say financial consolidation. We have insisted and sought, the SDPS will always say that the burden of economic stabilisation and crisis should be borne by everyone according to their options. With a linear approach like this, I stress that it will be difficult to be, for the simple reason that the most difficult things are the ones who have the least. We, as a bitter pill, have backed the laws on wage charges above 60,000. We think it wasn't a rational measure, but in order to have tomorrow, we have to do something further. There is something that is said in these documents and said – that this country should come out of the crisis and some laws must be changed. One of the laws being mentioned, and I'm sorry that there is no Minister of Economy, is the Labour Act. I ask the following question – it is a system law, which needs to solve a lot of things, but in the public often one false thesis is pushed, if we amend that law, a lot of jobs will be opened. That's not true. They don't open the laws of jobs. Jobs open up funds, but to open these jobs, we have to have financial resources, that's one thing. On the other hand, we won't do anything if we keep firing, and we announce layoffs, so sometimes we often seem to fire people more than we do jobs. The labour law needs to be passed. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia wants to stress that we will accept all those changes in the law agreed by employers, trade unions and governments through social dialogue with a certain consensus, but the Labour Law cannot be changed through the press. You need to sit down in working groups, you need to talk, you need to see what can be accepted at this point, what can't. Perhaps it would be the turn to change the law gradually, step by step, so that certain institutes that apply in the countries around Serbia, above all I think of Slovenia that has good law and other countries, to accept it now, and in some three years, some other institutes. First of all, I'm thinking about some illogicalness about severance, about working for a certain period of time, about how to fire. Of course, in this law, you have many rights, but you can hardly achieve them. I want to say something I said last year. It's the financing of the Duke. Since nothing has changed in the past year, I can practically repeat the same story I told last year. Somehow, at this time in Vojvodina, and even in Serbia, a theatre performance that is called – the budget, which is always the same, an ambush of the Vojvodina Assembly, brings amendments, these amendments come here, they are rejected, the finance minister, any one, promises – yes, we will solve this problem of the Vojvodina financing, we will pass the law, we will form a working group and there will be a stop and wait for the next year. I always asked the question, and now I ask the question – why is 7% for Vojvodina? Why isn't it 17% or why isn't it 4%? Who set the 7%? If he determined that, in addition to all the mathematics we know, and there's a lot of mathematicians here, we can't determine what 7% is. Serious politics and serious society, if it wants to solve the problem, it sits down and solves the problem. We may not be able to find the money, we may not be able to make money, but we can politically solve the problem – how to determine 7% and pass a law on the financing of Vojvodina. When we pass that law, then we will save a lot of debates since 2008, which go about the law on the financing of Vojvodina. Of course, there should be a will for that, and that will doesn't seem to exist with you. It is better to have a theater always ahead of New Year's, when the budget is adopted, and to open the issue of Vojvodina here, in this House, and Vojvodina is our province with the Constitution regulated and let us finish this story. I was recently in Slovenia. I can stress that they have the same problems as we do, but they are making a budget for two years now for 2014 and 2015. Why don't we introduce this institute budgeted for two years, so businessmen and everyone else know how and how to plan their activities in the coming years. Finally, I would like to stress that the SDPS will give full support to this budget and will vote in the voting day for this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29287	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29288	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there has been a lot of controversy in public about the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2014 and the accompanying set of laws that allow the financing of one of these budgets. There have been many criticisms based on the increase in public debt, that reforms are not essential, that nothing new is happening and that the minority government does not know what it is doing, or how to manage the public finances it has. The fact that it's difficult in Serbia today, we don't have to say it, the citizens know it best, but when we start criticising the Republic of Serbia's 2014 budget, let's at least be honest in some part of why we have one of these budgets. The public finances of a state are not something that starts today, ends tomorrow, but public finances are something that has its beginning and I would not like to ever experience its end, except for one bad policy as it was led in the previous period, in previous governments, when the question of public finances is. The budget of the Republic of Serbia is charged with several revenues. These are the basic tax revenues, if taxes on income are citizens, taxes on capital gains, value added taxes, property taxes, etc., customs taxes. One other part of the budget is unfortunately filled in by broadcasting state charters of value to international loans. Now, I'm very interested in having those critics explain to me what the expenditure side of the budget looks like, but also to be willing to take over their share of responsibility for this expenditure side of the budget. The expenditure side of the budget, for example for 2014, has 256 billion dinars planned to transfer to the Pension Insurance Fund. Our entire 2014 deficit is 182.5 billion. We have a health care fund of 107 billion grant dinars or almost two-thirds of deficits. We have 114 billion dinars of interest payments on loans this government hasn't taken. We still have 36 billion dinars of debt to the corporate funds that are in the restructuring process, i.e. the privatisation process. If we just take a little bit of a calculation, I say and say, addition is a very simple mathematical operation, we'll get to the amount of 533 billion dinars, that it should be given out of the Republic of Serbia's budget because of a failed government and a wrong policy that was conducted in the period until 2012. Today we have one of these budgets. The question arises – what has been done with these companies in the past period until 2012, when it comes to their restructuring, the translation from social property to the state and the storage for the market, or for market participation? I can tell you nothing was done. I don't blame any employees of these companies, but I am therefore asking the question – what about the directors who ran these companies, who had to do a systematization of jobs, who had to do restructuring and who had to adapt their businesses to the market way of business. They didn't do anything about it. They were just getting fat wages. Guess where? From the budget of the Republic of Serbia. And where did that budget money come from? Credit. And so year after year. So now we have 70,000 workers who rightly demand to work and the debts of the state, which, due to these debts, cannot carry out a quality restructuring of these state-owned enterprises. The question arises – how does the Republic of Serbia's budget have to do with pension funds and the Health Fund? Where do these funds come from? Retirement is acquired, something you can't take away from anyone, he's earned by his work, he's been filling that fund while he's getting paid. Health care funds, and those who are retired and those who work both younger and pregnant have the right to that kind of protection. I ask the question where did these workers go, especially until 2012. Serbia is a state that has no more employees. 400,000 jobs have disappeared in four years. Or, since some like to translate it into seconds and minutes 100,000 jobs a year. Calculate how many years there are, calculate how many hours there are, and find out, since you're talking about public debt for minutes and seconds, tell us how many workers were out of work per minute between 2008 and 2012. These are the problems facing this government and these are the problems that this budget must consider. I've heard from my colleagues why this government doesn't go into more serious cuts and into more serious savings. Because every time you go into more serious savings, and this one, I don't know which one can be more serious than throwing people out into the streets. If you start doing that, you're risking something completely different. Then you bring the country into recession. I see some colleagues looking at me with a little surprise. It is, because many service activities with the termination of the salary of some people also represent that they are performing operations and are also increasing the number of unemployed. That's one serious problem. The austerity measures should be balanced, the state should make savings without falling gross products, i.e. to avoid introducing the state into a recession. That's why I think this budget was made with that intention. I think that this budget is some, unfortunately, reality, but I also think through the laws that preceded this budget, that this budget has real grounds for not having a rebalancing done, unless we can do it for the better. I think even with such a restrictive budget, the situation may be better in 2014 than expected. Unlike all previous governments, this government represents a real picture in front of citizens, a real picture of their public finances, the real picture we have in the economy. We don't want to lie to the citizens. I am absolutely sure that Serbia can get out of this economic crisis that it has fallen into, not by the guilt of this government, but by the guilt of a large number of critics of this government. I am also absolutely certain that it will not be a little easy work for ministers, nor for their advisers, nor for the government in general, it will not be easy to endure it even when it comes to citizens. What's here is, there's no magic wand that can solve our problems. It takes a lot of effort, a lot of denial to finally get Serbia on track when its finances are at stake and not to charge the budget from credit, but from real revenues. This budget is the continuation of this policy that this government began in 2012. That's why the SNS in voting day will support this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29289	Thank you. National MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29290	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at first I want to say that the DSS will vote against this budget. Also, I would like to ask the minister to tell us if there will be another budget rebalance for this year, because it is already obvious that the rebalancing that was passed in July cannot be achieved in the planned frameworks. The July rebalance envisions a budget of 873 billion dinars by the end of the year, but by the end of October, these are the data I have, only 660 billion were charged. So the last two months are supposed to gather 213 billion dinars, so November and December. It is on average 107 in November and 107 in December. If we consider that the best moon in the last ten years has been a July month when 80 million are charged, I don't see how this rebalancing can be fulfilled. If there is no new rebalancing, I think it's illusory to discuss the budget, because the law is not respected. I'm going to go back to the current budget, and I'm going to start my budget statement. First of all, I think the budget revenues are overrated. I want to say right away that these revenues, except they're overrated, are overrated at a high percentage. First of all, even if everything is charged this year, I'm going to talk only about the figures in practically the entire exposure, all the planned revenues, and it's certainly not going to happen by the end of the year, that's my forecast for the data that I have, that there's no way to charge everything that's planned by the end of the year, you plan to grow budget revenues by 6.5%, from 873 to 930 billion dinars. But let's start with mine, according to me, more realistic estimates, that this year's revenues will be no more than 820 billion. So it's planned for 873, at best for me to be 820 billion, and that's only possible if in the state register, in November and December there are maximum amounts that were in July, and that's 80 billion dinars. Once again, 80 billion dinars were only in July in the last ten years. If we take real income this year and the planned revenues next year, you've predicted 13.5% growth. So not 6.5% but 13.5%. This growth in income is not possible, it is clear to all, 13.5% with projected GDP growth of 1%, is not possible. Either the growth will be bigger or the budget will not be charged. So I'm responsible for saying that this revenue side is not feasible. I will add further, in 2014 we will have a slow growth in revenue and on the basis of inflation. I'll give you the information. In October, we had the lowest level of consumer prices in history. He's down to only 2.2%, I'm talking about October this year. This is theoretically good for macroeconomic stability, which means that VAT revenues will be lower next year, they will be slower. On the other hand, I'd like to say that no one has thought to look back a little bit and see what's been going on for the last 12 months. I'll remind you that last year, we had an inflation of 12.2%, it was a record inflation in Central and Southeastern Europe, but that once suits budgeting. I'm not saying it was negative. We increased the VAT base rate from 18% to 20% since 1 October 2012 and that was not enough for both of these elements to lead to what was agreed on by the rebalance. One more thing to say, no one yet, and we haven't heard from anyone that has given up the projected growth of 2% of GDP. Come on, Mr. Minister, let's cross-reference all this data I've brought. There's a lot of them, but let's try to cross them. We entered this year, so in 2013, with prices 12.2% higher than at the beginning of 2012. This should also result in a significant increase in VAT revenues. Of course, income growth should also contribute to a 2% GDP growth. We've got a couple of growing bags. With these parameters, the rebalancing was planned to increase by 10.7% in 2013, compared to 2012. Instead of 788 billion revenues in 2012, it was planned by rebalance, 873 billion. With the original budget, Mr. Minister, which was made a year ago, in this same assembly, colleagues were present here, an increase in revenue was planned, even by 22.5%. So 965 billion dinars were planned. We had great optimism, at the end of 2012, that it would jump 22.5%. From the same place, literally at the same time last year, we said that the budget was unrealistic. Of course, we're now saying that the 2014 budget, too, Mr. Minister, is unrealistic, and I'm telling you this, the most well-meaning. I'm willing to hear from you too that I'm wrong, even though I'm saying this is the sixth budget I'm working on, and six times I've guessed there's going to be a rebalance. So when we discussed it 12 months ago and I'm going to do it again, we planned 22.5% of the growth and it would be great if this year, if we had extra income in November and December, it would be great if we ended up with 4 to 5% more income than last year. I'll give you the data by the end of October, the actual inflow into the budget was only 660 billion, and if we look at reality, to take a mean value, in these 10 months, we'll be forecasting, finishing, at the same size as last year, we'll have the exact same income in 2013. About that black scenario, which is even unrealistic, and I think it's very real, nothing we haven't heard from, not even anymore, and so I'd like to ask someone to give us an explanation of how from the growth of 22.5% we get to 0% and I predict it will be at the end of December of the month. Time will tell. Now, if I take it that I'm right that growth will be 0%, that there will be income at the level of 2012, the planned growth for next year, which you gave this budget, is 17.5%. So we're saying that next year's budget revenues are going to be up 17.5%. I think it's clear to everyone that it's impossible, I'm talking about real numbers, I don't think there's any theoretical chance of getting to this planned level. I spent a lot of time deliberately putting these numbers together, and the picture I got, I just took it out. Maybe it's better, instead of talking about this unreal budget, to back off for a week or two, so we can go out with a little bit more real numbers, because I don't think this is real, and we're going to have a budget rebalance coming up again. I'd like to pray, Mr. Minister, that maybe this should start with you, that we don't have every year rebalancing and that we start from really real figures, from real income growth, because every year we spend energy, money, time, on budget rebalances, and sometimes we have two rebalances. I think it's a waste of both energy and time. As for expenditure, in different circumstances, you might also be able to support this government's expenditure proposal for next year, that they increase by less than 5%, from this year's 1,040 to 1,091 billion. You've announced that this will be a year of radical savings, I remember that, but I claim there will be no savings. I'll try to figure it out, you've predicted a growth in expenditure by 1.5% slower than income, and that's fine. If I add to the suspect, although we don't have to, for the purchase of financial assets, that's 5.8%, we get to the cost of 5.8%. But we don't have to. I'll leave the financial assets aside. There was a gymnastics at the expense. The government recently, Mr. Minister, reduced the income tax by 2%, on the one hand, while at the same time increasing the contribution rate for pension insurance. So it's a change from this year. On the one hand, it reduced the revenues of local self-government and, on the other hand, increased the revenues of the Pension-Inhabitation Fund. At first glance, nothing special. But the result is that eight billion dinars will be paid less in the next year from the pension insurance fund's budget. So for the PIO Fund, we're going to have eight billion less. At first glance, it seems to be nothing special. But if it wasn't for that change that doesn't mean any less burden for taxpayers, because if you didn't pay on the bridge, the transfers from the budget next year to the PIO Fund would be eight billion more. What does that mean? In that case, without this additional gymnastics, with these additional eight billion, budgets and transfers, that is, the spending side would increase to 1,120 billion from these eight billion, so that expenditure and revenues would be 6.5% higher in 2014. So there's no savings here. The expenditures and revenues will grow at exactly the same rate, if it weren't for all this gymnastics. But it's just the beginning. I'll give you some more information, Mr. Secretary. For 10 months 2013, real budget expenditures were 815 billion. At this rate, at this rate as money is spent now, if it continues by the end of the year, I am talking about November and December, expenditure would reach 978 billion dinars by the end of the year, although the budget is planning 1,040 billion. So at this rate, it's going to reach 978 billion. Let's take the state to spend in November and December even more, 10 billion more than the average, although in September and October it spent less than the average, expenditure in 2013 cannot exceed a thousand billion dinars alone. What does that mean? Compared to this amount that will be spent this year, the planned expenditure next year is not more than 5%, but in this real picture by 11.2%. This is a real cost increase in 2014. It's just proof that this budget doesn't have that element of savings that's been talked about. I'd say something about goods and services. Since it was announced in October, when you announced these six economic measures, I will quote – all ministries were tasked with setting their own savings within 10% of the price of goods and services. You announced that savings on this basis will be around 30m to 40m euros. It happened the other way around. What happened? These expenditures grew here in this budget's proposal. As for public debt, here we have the main problem – interest will eat everything. Because, at the end of October, the public debt was 19.3 billion euros, but to this should be added these 700m euros in debt to Serbia, so today the figure is 20 billion euros. The next year, 114 billion dinars are planned for interest costs. This is compared to 92 billion dinars this year, but the bigger problem is in 2015 when about 135 billion dinars are planned for interest. I think it's very important to create a new system of public debt management and that this should be the main challenge, otherwise this way interest will eat everything. I think a whole new public debt management policy must be made. Of course, it's just as important to whom we'll be in debt and by which percentages. Also, one of the challenges, which I think will have to be tackled systematically, is this about "Smederevo Ironworks", which affects the revenue side of the budget. In some years she had a huge impact, but since no strategic partner was found in the past year, because I think it went ad hoc, not systematically, I think the next challenge is finding a strategic partner, but I think there are some things that need to change first. The construction industry across Europe is in a major crisis and while the next few years the price of steel will be relatively low. Here without one strategic system approach, we can talk about it when we have a little bit more time, I don't think there's gonna be a solution. When I found a strategic partner last year, no one, we spoke here, in this same place, then I said that no strategic partner would be found for "The Iron," because I know that market, on the one hand, and I said that there had to be a plan B, which wasn't made, on the other hand. Finally, I would add about the agrarian budget that, although it is in the opinion of all of the development opportunities, in this budget it is not seen, it is getting thinner and thinner as the years go by. This year, 34.9 billion dinars are planned, which is about three billion less than the previous years. Also, since January 1st, we have been waiting for the full liberalisation of the agricultural and food markets, and this will be another challenge with which the government has not tried to do anything to defend domestic producers in this budget. In the end, I'd say one thing, we don't see an absolute development component in this budget. One of the things we need to have greater economic activity is investment, both domestic and foreign. We often talk, there's Minister Rodic, he was the head of an intelligence agency, security, I apologize, how intelligence scans political, economic events, know what's going on with us, etc. It's true. And the bigger truth is that investors do it, believe me, 10 times more, but much more quality about the economic situation. Investors know we don't have a full Constitutional Court as the top of the court. The rule of law is the basis for withdrawing foreign investment, and we have today in Serbia a Constitutional Court that does not resolve one initiative of 25 MPs, as regards the Brussels Agreement. The Constitutional Court's silence also shows investors...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29291	Please, Mr. Popovic, let us not comment on the work of the courts, not to interfere with what is a special branch of government. It's all right, but you know that court decisions are something special and it has nothing to do with anything. Not to be interpreted as the National Assembly in any way as wanting to influence the work of the courts.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29292	You'll let me finish, I have conclusions here. I didn't comment on the court's decision. There's no court's work here. The court doesn't work, it doesn't exist, as far as this issue is concerned, so there's no decision, and we've never been in the DSS to comment on the court's decisions. But unfortunately she's not here. Finally, Mr. Minister, I want to point out the fundamental differences in the political and economic concept between the government and the DSS. In the political government, it continues with a devastating policy that the EU has no alternative. The DSS advocates balanced foreign and foreign trade policy, and in economic terms, of course, and political neutrality, this government is making fiscal policy measures that add to the economy, and we are in favour of discharging the economy. That's why the DSS will vote against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29293	The word is made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Baptizer, it is yours to listen to us, and it is ours to say what we think should be said in this debate. As far as LDP MPs are concerned, someone would say fortunately, but I will still be different, so I say, unfortunately in this debate, we can repeat everything we have said so many times in discussions according to previous budgets, economic policy, pompously announced reforms and, unfortunately, with regrets, promoted moves, which carry the burden of the crisis on citizens from the state, must not be reformed. Mr. Baptizer, you're not alone here today. It seems to me that the whole country is left to a policy that not only cannot clearly tell what its goal is, but a policy that, at every difficult moment, doesn't even have its own face. For whom, as MPs, in this debate, to catch up with, to whom shall we speak, from whom shall we seek explanations, to whom shall we offer suggestions? There's no Minister of Economy. With his description of the state of our economy, I think that without any problems, the entire parliament can agree. Of course, on the condition that responsibility is not asked, which the minister himself did not. Mr. Krstic, neither you nor your colleague from the Department of Economy, not to mention the Prime Minister, have you tried to talk about the causes of the problems you point to. It is true that next year we should be in debt for six billion. That's why we won't criticise you, because that's the consequence of the state's reaction to the state it's in. When are we gonna start leaving that wrong course? When are we gonna start running that policy run by other societies? Meanwhile, even Greece is slowly coming out of the crisis. It stagnates the unemployment rate, some say it's falling, credit ratings are changing. The unemployment rate is dropping in Spain. The real estate market started to work. The financial sector has been stabilised. Where are we going with this budget debate? I have nothing to say to you when, on the one hand, I analyse my obligations as finance minister -- to pay people off, to provide them with such health care, to function those systems without which the state is not a state, education, justice, police, military. Mr. Krstic, when people listen to us here in parliament, then they cannot answer the simple question - and what is the plan and how are we going to get the country out of this state? You are announcing a six-billion-dollar borrowing in the following year, and Minister Radulovic, he announces an improvement in the investment climate and the creation of assumptions for the arrival of investors in Serbia, with the reviving of enterprises that are in restructuring and which, he said, are in the focus of government economic policy. I can't understand that Mr. Radulovic doesn't know what the situation is in these companies. I can't agree with the fact that the Minister of Economy has the right to this kind of ignorance. But since you come from a world where the answers to our problems are occasionally sought by Minister Radulovic, tell me, is it possible to apply some of the solutions characteristic of the US economy and to ignore the elemental precondition of this economy? That's the agreement of those who run politics around a border that can't be crossed. No one can carry out the burden of this budget alone, nor can the Minister of Economy, nor can you as Minister of Finance, nor can the Prime Minister. Does that mean the ground will fall to its knees under that burden? It can't be an epilogue. So let's get an answer to the question -- why did three key politicians, finance minister, economy minister and prime minister spend an hour in the Assembly without having devoted any second to even discussing the key problems in which the country is located? The labour law, reform of pension policy, the law on bankruptcy, is about changing the Law on privatisation, the Law on Planning and Construction. What instruments does your government think is running economic policy? What instruments does the Department of Economy think it does? I know what used to be instruments, the Privatisation Agency. If privatization was robbery or theft, does anyone in your government think, in the atmosphere created by that Privatisation Agency, and I guarantee you that there are the best quality personnel this country has had in the last 15 years. Export Insurance Agency, SIEPA, Development Fund, which instruments do you think you are implementing your economic policy? You're talking about interest in the banking system. Can you imagine, Mr. Krstic, that in 2009, for example, Timothy Geitner started talking about interest in the banking sector, while not being able to export $80 billion to the financial markets in America monthly and still enough to secure monthly investment from abroad? This society may not know what our problem is or what our problem is, but you as finance minister, we as politicians sitting here, have no right to that ignorance. I know we understand each other perfectly at this point. What is the net capital of the banking sector at this point in Serbia? How many banks have been damaged through the collapse of only four companies? They pulled 920m euros to begin with. You know that, you talked about it in London. Why are we talking about NPLs in the Development Fund, when it's almost equal to the percentage of non-performing loans in the banking sector? I guess that's what it says about the state of the country. It's been a long time since the risk of business affects interest. That's just what it's called. Today, banks charge through interest what can no longer be charged in the usual banking business. That means we don't have the right to promise businesses different interest rates. At this point, the dinars are from 24% to 28%. Yesterday I saw a loan agreement with an effective interest rate of 45% in the euro sign. What can be created in such a climate? Who else can work? Was it right until your government? It's not. But instead of solving those problems that can be solved, you decided to take everything down. Then you bring people working in Serbia to the paradox, to be understood by KFG and credited by the German Development Bank, or the German Development Fund, and to feel exiled and rejected by their country here. There was talk of a private sector. The private sector, its foundations, are in the privatisation process. Shall we begin to appreciate each other, to respect those who fill that common budget of ours, who provide money for a doctor, for a professor, for a police officer who takes care of children, finally, those who work to receive my salary? That way, it cannot be spoken at the end of 2013 in Serbia without being a consequence. A company in restructuring, a serious problem, I'm just not sure that this is a solution that you've chosen adequately. I don't know what the real value of these companies is spoken of by the Minister of Economy, when there's not one appraisal who's willing to respect that real value, because in the meantime, this has become a country where people fear their shadows. Do you want me to tell you the real value of "Minel Trafoa", "Minel Transformator", the spine of our energy sector? They haven't worked in six years. Nenad Popovic left, he privatised it at the time. Eight hundred euros a square meter of administrative building in Ripenj, 1938, a billion and 700 million estimated company that has not worked for seven years, has no market, no raw materials, abandoned and abandoned workers. Those of value have gone somewhere else. By what criteria will an estimate be made? Will someone here in parliament say - our dear workers, we will apply a discounted market method, we will carry out the liquidation assessment? In what way? We deal with IDs. I'm sorry, but your government doesn't trust itself either. What would an investor believe in documents? It doesn't work anywhere in the world. Everyone hires a professional house that conducts an evaluation of something. Let's talk about it, make people wake up, let's say -- it's hard, we'll tighten the belt. It is true that there is no investment in Serbia. Do you know what's even worse than that? To turn the government upside down, to bring us all into this government like this, so they won't come on their own. With such a labour law, never, with the Law of Planning and Construction, never, with the law of bankruptcy, ever. We need to make our economy dynamic. Should we be connected to the world? You should. What hasn't happened so far, what didn't anybody want? I don't know anyone who came to power and said - we don't want to. There were different priorities. We missed our chances. You're where you are now. I don't think you should be stamped because you said the budget deficit was 7%. That's a fact. For the first time, we have this crystal clear picture in front of us, but it doesn't fit on those percentages. It's the result of one condition where the country is located, which is now being tolerated again. We can't do that anymore. Are we going to get key laws to start our economy by the end of the year? In Serbia, for three years, people have lived and worked today, and for three years our lives have been described as the most dynamic, most concrete, most efficient, difficult but yet full of ambition. When relations between the employer and the employee were regulated by a different Labour Act, the one around which the spear is now being broken again for no reason, it's not even being discussed here where to talk, I don't think the workers should be afraid of it, that much worse what we have at this point is the alleged rights that no one can achieve. I'm sorry that he's not here, the minister of the economy, to remind him of that robbery privatisation, what she looked like, when the ministers had no right to withdraw. I remember God Djelic and Vlahovic being called in "The flag" in front of the link - if we can give in, there is no giving in. Who today is Serbia's largest exporter? It took a while, but it worked. We didn't know how many companies we had in Serbia. The National Bank's bonity center tells us 4,500 on paper. We check and less than 1,000 works. This is Serbia in 2001, which we allegedly desolated when we came to power. What kind of robbery privatisation? Let the thieves go to jail. The Privatization Model that we were identified for was the only possible and most correct one. He can't talk like that to the Minister of Business, he has no right unless he proposes something new. We had that voucher privatisation when you split the stock to the workers. Today, one man would be the boss of all of Serbia if that model had been applied. Where's the capital to start these companies? Where are the investors? There's no one here. How do you manage it? Not at all. They are models of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, today Slovenia. The second model, the model of Russian privatisation, the privatisation behind which the state then stood. I remember Seselj in the debate. And he said himself it's a good law, and if we talk about others, our greatest critic, he won't vote for it but he's good. We can't tolerate it. Mr. Baptizer, you run the financials. Is there an analysis that will tell us how realistic your expectations are, above all, from the private sector that needs to be carried out here in 2014 on its back? If we're talking about those who are jobless today, that's hundreds of thousands of people who have lost their jobs because they worked in the private sector. In the private sector, the salary is 30% lower than this salary you've now limited. How realistic are these assumptions? What do we have to do to minimize the possibility of a failure, a subroutine? What can we do as an opposition? It doesn't matter to us at all whether we go to elections in an atmosphere where Serbia is fighting itself in the streets or we go to elections as a party, which says we respect this course, we have a clear goal, we are faster, we are more efficient, we are better at achieving it. It's important for us, as for the party. Key development directions. Can we get an answer to that question? What are our backs? Is that agrarian? We don't have an agrarian. Does anyone in the government know how many wheat are on the market today in Novi Sad? How much is corn? Who is thinking in the government about what has failed our oil industry with capacity of 1,200,000 tonnes and Serbia's half-million potential, and then we approve intervention imports from Ukraine, below all costs and destroy our industry? How much less soil is under the wheat this winter than it was a year ago? Why do we have a problem with realising the project with the Emirates? Why don't we use the resources ahead of us? These are all topics that should be discussed under these circumstances. I repeat, it's true what Ivica Dacic said. This is the most important law that parliament is discussing in one year. Where are those who would have to be our conversators? They're not here. That's what this debate is largely unthinking. Speaking of the previous package of laws, we have pointed to several key weaknesses that can no longer be tolerated. We can't solve that, because we can only comment on the opposition position as such an idea. If we're talking about the Planning and Construction Act, you have our proposal, it's been here for four years. It doesn't interest anyone or commit to it, but let's see what we have to do to make assumptions about solving those problems that we see before us. I don't think anybody's happy that we're rocking the financial sector. Is there some measure I need to push to stabilize him? It's the same case with the labour market, with the private sector as well. What is it that every one of us needs to do within the state so that the state can stabilize?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29295	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29296	We can start by supporting this budget. By the way, I think today we had what is an exception to our political practice, which is that the Prime Minister was here. I hope Minister Radulovic... (DS emissaries from the scene: that's not true. Well, since 2002, as we've heard, he hasn't been Prime Minister here. He put out a policy that covers those structural reforms that we have largely talked about over the past few days. Minister Radulovic did talk about economic policy, I will not repeat that. I hope he finds more time in the next few days to discuss this development, not just privatisation and bankruptcy. As for the other laws that have been mentioned and which are key, they will come by the end of the year. The Ministry of Economy, as well as other resolution ministries, is working on them. I am referring primarily to bankruptcy and privatisation, the Law on Planning and Construction in the Public Debate, and the Labour Act, as you know, is about talks with trade unions and all relevant ministries, as well as associations of managers. I'm going to try to answer a few of the topics I've recorded myself, which I've noticed have been repeated, so I can break some of the names that I think they've created here. I'd start with income and revenue. The future side, as everyone knows perfectly well who looked at the Fiscal Council report, was first projected realistically. It was not projected against the budget rebalancing for 2013, but was projected in relation to what we expect will be real revenues in 2013, which will unfortunately be between 20-30 billion, below what was expected by the budget rebalancing, which is why we have also taken austerity measures rather restrictively, and by the quotas under the vault by the end of this year to also avoid rebalancing for 2013. The incomes as such, I won't go into all the details, including this pay cut. They also include an increase in VAT, as well as what is significant, the fight against the gray economy. It's a domain where we can all help. It's a domain where we're already taking steps as far as the tax administration is concerned. In the package of laws that we passed last week, we also had the Tax Procedure and Administration Act, as well as the Tobacco Act where we changed some procedures and sharpened criminal policy. After 2013, in which we are quite income and after rebalancing, after which incomes are also not in line with what we expected, of course we worry about it, but that is why we have made an assessment that we think is real and that will endure, and in doing so we are taking very concrete measures on the side of the gray economy to fight it. The second topic that I've recorded for myself is development and economy. I hope that the Minister of Economy will speak more thoroughly in the coming days, but we in the budget, and on the other hand I can talk about it, we have several elements. Unfortunately, on the one hand, we have enterprises in restructuring that require resolution. Which, some of them, we hope will become after investment, become and remain, whatever you want to say, the development engine of certain, especially regions that are outside of Belgrade, but that is one topic that we have to address, which we haven't sufficiently addressed in the last 10 years, or we haven't addressed with some definitive outcome. In addition, we have a Development Fund that no one has abolished, we have a Guarantee Fund as one of the methods that the Minister of Economy spoke of, which we will test and see if the right way is to reduce the risk of the premium, or the interest rates that small and medium-sized enterprises have. We have something we haven't talked about today, which is Apex 5. It's a cheap source of funding for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also essential in the development of the economy, the environment and the fiscal stability that I have talked about in these laws as well as in this Budget Law and fiscal strategy. I think the point here is, I'll repeat, that the state can't be the development engine of the economy, unfortunately, even if it could have been about five or six years ago, it's no longer the fiscal situation that we're in. We had another important topic, and that's borrowing. I just want to break the name of what it's really about, because it's being manipulated here, not to say the numberthrowers that seem impressive, but essentially don't talk much. We have a total debt requirement of 5.6 billion euros. That's 662 billion dinars. Gross borrowing is not a debt that increases public debt as such. It's these famous six billion that's being talked about, it's actually 5.6. Of these 5.6 billion euros, 3.3 are spent on paying off domestic public debt, i.e. refinancing, 0.3 are spent on disbursement, i.e. financing external public debt. It's 3.6 out of 5.6, and it doesn't automatically increase public debt, it refinances what already exists. We have a guaranteed debt payment, it also doesn't increase, it's 0.4 almost billion euros. We have 1.5 billion euros, unfortunately, which increases, that's to finance the deficit, that's the train I was talking about going at full speed towards the break-in we're turning now. We have something small left for, technically by obtaining a financial asset of 0.1 and 100m euros, respectively. So we're talking about 1.6 million euros, actually of the 5.6 going, and that's not the money being thrown, that's the money we need to keep this engine running. A engine that unfortunately doesn't move us forward until we've implemented these structural reforms. That leads me to this finding, not to address the root causes of the problem. That's just not true. I've dealt less with who's to blame for the problems that have arisen, and I'm not going to deal with it, because I don't think it's productive, at least not the Ministry of Finance, or the position I'm trying to come up with, and at a time when there's so much work and it depends so much on it, to deal with these other things. I do not dispute that it would be directed to do so, especially where things were not done in accordance with the law, if such domains are available, to address the competent institutions as well. Let me get back to this. We have addressed all the causes of the problem through the draft budget law, as well as the fiscal strategy. We started talking to them as I already spoke to them last week, in one responsible way and in a way that allows us to, hopefully, do them much where possible in 2014. We're on our way to deal with the first problem, the gray economy and the tax administration. That's what this government started before the reconstruction. We are starting to deal with some of these measures, as well as with the register of employees, the register of institutions, the beginning of work on pay grade, to deal with pay, or the amount they occupy in the public sector, of course, which they occupy in the budget, which is about 25% as you heard in the opening statement. We set out to deal with perhaps even before that, and most of the time, the Minister of Economy, the enterprises in restructuring, or subsidies as such, spoke of it. We're on our way to do business, and we've made it very clear what the plan is for reforming the pension system. The plan in which we said that the age limit would increase, that actoric foams would be introduced, etc. After all, we talked about it, I don't think it's less important to refer to some of the other topics that life means, we recognized publicly and officially, and we said that we would address the way the whole state is financed. That we will discuss and that we will finally resolve the issue of funding local self-government, financing the AP Vojvodina and the way the tax system is set up, who collects and who is responsible for which taxes and whose responsibilities are they? This is something we want to address before we discuss the 2015 budget at the same time next year, because it is a prerequisite for not only transparency in finance and adequate budgeting and spending of money, but I think it also opens up many other essential issues that were discussed in the opening exhibition of the prime minister. After all, it may be technical to address the issue of goods and services I promised in this morning's presentation. The goods and services have been increased this year, but they've been increased for technical reasons, they haven't been reduced as much as we intended, but I'll explain that in two steps. It increased by about nine billion compared to the 2013 budget rebalance, because the increase in expenditures was initially 6.6 billion, the Ministry of Education for Primary Education gives transfers to local self-government units for the school's material costs. That wasn't realistically reflected in budget rebalancing. The expenditure increased by 6.6 billion, which is the same, since transfers are increased and revenues so that it is deficited neutral, courts have been given an additional two billion for delays, according to lawyers, witches, which has also not been recognised in the budget rebalancing for 2013, which has created delays and huge problems, and this is a total of 8.6. We also have EU funds, IPO funds that are again deficiently neutral of around 1.6 billion. That explains the increase. Why didn't there be a reduction? Because within the limits that have been sent to the ministries, it may now be technical, the ministries have simply recognised that not all ministries are not possible, but that it is not possible to reduce goods and services to the extent to which it is envisaged, especially in relation to the budget rebalancing for 2013, which has already been largely and in a significant way addressed to that classification of costs, but have remained within the limits, which means that they redistributed other costs. These are my answers to the questions I have recorded in this general, or debate in principle so far. I just want to conclude that it doesn't help the debate, especially when we're talking about borrowing, talking about gross figures, we need to talk about net numbers to know what we're doing and what we're talking about, what's our problem. On the other hand, I don't think it's appropriate to say that we don't address problems. We started talking to all the problems. Some of them take more time. For each of them, we put out clear steps that we talked about last week, which we'll definitely talk about when we talk more in detail this week, and that's our budget for this year. As such, this budget is smaller per deficit compared to the one we had, the rebalance for 2013, the republican 4.6 versus 4.7, which is the essence. The fact that we decided to admit things below the line for the first time and get to the 7% figure, which is a past commitment that we unfortunately have to settle not only in 2014 but until 2017. I think it's a sign of willingness to face reality and address these problems the way we have to, and that's all we've talked about so far, and we're all talking to them. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29297	Replica, Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29298	Mr. Krstic, I didn't expect you to answer all the questions. It's just that you can't do it. Just explain to me what cover the government is here, because we think it's the government's policy if it's the sum of the economy minister, it comes to parliament, convincing us that it will lower the banking interest. That's very important for your budget, believe me. That's the most important thing. How will you make cheaper capital in Serbia, when the price of that capital is actually just a reflection of all the losses and damage the banking sector suffers? Did it have to be blocked by Galenika? Did she have to be? Did many companies by the Development Fund have to be blocked, even though they did not receive payment loans? Did someone in the government calculate what a shame it is that someone appeared on behalf of the government and said that the Fund for the Development was a front for the robbery of the state? The Development Fund is a victim of irresponsible politicians, and as an instrument of our country unfortunately the only option for you as finance minister and the government is to respond to the paradox, the economics in which we live – how is it possible to develop the country if the interest rate is three times the profit rate? (President: Time. () Just answer that question. Everybody else stay open.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29299	Minister Krstic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29300	The economy minister was talking about it, and I'm only going to talk about bank interest and interest rates. It's going in three directions. One is the app we have, as a cheap source of funding for small and medium-sized enterprises that address the price, i.e. the cost of funding sources. We have thought about the Guarantee Fund, which addresses the risk management, which was spoken of by the Minister of Economy. We have finally combined with this restrictive fiscal policy and a reduction in the interest rates of the reference rates addressed naturally by the NBS, whose ingenuity. That's three specific things they do that way. As far as these other issues are concerned, these are discretionary decisions that I will not comment on as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29301	Mr. Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29302	I understand why you don't want to comment. You do not need to interpret some of the general places left behind by the minister or some of the other initiatives some of the other ministers have launched. I want to give you some information. We had this Guarantee Fund 10 years ago, guaranteed, right here. First of all, his role was to secure the preconditions for companies that are formed and to go to banks with requirements for certain loans, and they do not have adequate security. They don't have, say, balances that are convincing that they're serious about business. They don't have property, etc. Mr. Krstic, it would be great if it could work, but it can't work in Serbia in 2013 or 2014 because our country does not have adequate security or does not talk about them, which are credible for the banking sector. It is not without reason the reference interest rate of NBS 10 points. Is that right? This is a response to overvalue, to a dinar without cover, so when the salary in this country was 30 euros in 2001, and today 400 euros in average salary, did the productivity in Serbia so much? There are billions of them that we're talking about today. It's an unreal project and every serious one in the banking sector knows it. Anyone who does business in Serbia knows it's unrealistic. It would be great if it could work. It won't work. Venčur projects, you know what, innovation technologies. Great, but we have another kind of problem. I mentioned some of them. Much more needs arguments, seriousness, and concrete measures. By New Year's Eve, there will be a law on work. It'd be nice. It won't be until New Year's Eve. The law on planning and construction will not pass a public debate. (President: Time. ) The idea of banks accepting the obligation to pay the state if the investor cannot cover the cost of building land spending is science fiction. Let's start with the previous question, in which country in our environment does something like that even pay?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29303	Time to Mr. Jovanovic. Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours, given that the National Assembly will bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we're going to continue at 4.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29304	We're going back to work. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? National MP Momo Colaković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29305	The President-in-Office, working presidency, respected ministers with associates, honourable MPs, above all I want to react, as well as a number of MPs, to the incorrect behaviour of MP Bojan Đuric in the first part of the session. It is unacceptable for an MP to have such a relationship with the vice president of the National Assembly. The 2014 budget debate will begin with the commendation of Prime Minister Ivica Dacic and at the expense of ministers, Mr Krstic and Radulovic, because they spoke very openly, very clearly and precisely about the problems and difficulties we are facing at the moment. First of all, I want to point out a few questions, since it's not possible to talk about the whole budget within 20 minutes. Why do we support the Budget Law? First, the draft budget law is based on basic assessments, principles and criteria presented by Prime Minister Ivica Dacic during the government's reconstruction, at the beginning of this year. That's why I think it deserves the attention of that fact. Second, what kind of state do we want and what do we want? What I can say on behalf of my parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia, is that we want a socio-human state with strong social dimensions. We want a country that will ensure social peace, social dialogue, social security and social stability. In that sense, we want a country with 7.5 million inhabitants, not a country for a number of those who are rich and for their profit. We want a country that will provide a better life for those who are the poorest, those who deserve and deserve attention, and the state is unable to provide them with a modester or better life. This is the position and determination of the PUPS, which is the position and definition of our parliamentary group, and we will insist on that, by contributing our contribution and our proposals to the 2014 Budget Law and related to improving some proposals, which we will discuss in principle and in the debate in particular. Third, our MP group insists on returning those issues and problems that this country is facing, which is primarily economics, in a narrow sense, said production and even more said jobs. If we resolve this, if we provide it in the coming years, as is foreseen and the laws that we discussed last week and the laws that we have in the debate today, the Budget Law, then we will be easier to solve those other problems that some MPs are constantly insisting on, which are reforms in the social sector, and we are always talking about it, and we are going to solve everything if we cut pensions, if we cut salaries, and if we reform this or that fund. We think that the basic problem, and in this sense we expect Minister Radulovic to prepare these laws as soon as possible and to introduce them into the assembly procedure, to discuss them and ensure that what we are talking about today, when we adopt the budget, that we can carry it out more easily in the coming year. Those who talk about reforms of pension and health, education, social and other systems and are constantly saying – pensions, pensions, pensions, they could hear that from the President of the Fiscal Council, from individual MPs, from individual businessmen, from individual directors, etc., we return by saying: production, production, jobs, jobs, jobs, and then we will solve this issue more successfully, more easily and better. If nothing else, at least we'll solve them in comparison. I can freely say that we can remove many segments from this segment of the social mile without solving the problem if we don't solve this first question. We believe that the Budget Law has managed to balance one and another problem in this sense, and therefore I think that we can solve some issues, some problems much faster than we have done so far. The fourth question, something beyond what I want to say, we will especially support it, the law regulates separation for social giving. So far in the discussion, we have heard many questions and many of the problems that are present in this area, and above all we think about social isolation for the poorest citizens of this country. I'm not just talking about pensioners and pension systems, I'm talking about other social benefits. It is our country's obligation, our obligation as MPs, that's the government's obligation, and in this respect we think we need to ensure that the poorest live more properly. We also support redundancies for more active employment policy and in this respect, in particular, what the government subsequently proposed, to allocate two billion dinars to encourage employment. I'm going to say something about the Budget Law, or decisions on pension-involved insurance, or decision. This is the topic this parliament has been dealing with in the past week every day, which has sparked a heated debate. Our assessment is that this part of the separation is not enough and that it cannot provide a more decent life for those who have the least, but I can also say that at this point in a certain sense it is balanced and that there has been no reduction, as Mr. Minister said, and in some paragraphs and in some positions it has increased. That's why he deserves attention, that we talk about it, if we can fix something, and if we don't, to stay on this level. We will try to deal with problems that will also arise and will not be solved when it comes to pensioners, to solve them in a different way. I encourage and improve the material position in the way Belgrade, Jagodina, Novi Sad and other centres do. And it's part of the state. And these are pensioners of these environments, these municipalities, these cities, the provinces, etc. We are in favour of continuing reforms. We cannot accept certain opinions, some of the views that speak about the need to reform from the beginning. Since 2000, five changes in the amendments and additions to the Pension-Invalid Insurance Act have been here. I have to admit to saying that every government has done something better, something better regulated. We've made this progress. I'm just going to mention the 2010 pension-inhabitation law, and we can now say that some elements are improved, such as the benefits of a work internship, an increase in the retirement pension base, disability pensions, etc., and there are parameters accurate and accurate, and there is no need to say that nothing has been done. On the contrary, it is. It is our view that these reforms should continue. How and in what way? It is likely to be done during this period of the first months of next year and we will have a debate on these issues in this House. We are ready to talk and contribute to the proper regulation of the issue, so that millions and some thousands of pensioners can live more politely. But without the preconditions I was talking about, it can't happen if we don't have better production, if we don't have more jobs. I would particularly stress the need for social partners to respect these issues and questions on the Labour Act and others. I'd like to support Mr. Miatovic on that. Without the union, no real solutions can be made, nor is that possible without other social partners, especially unions. We are pleased that Minister Radulovic started the mission. I'll just give you a few details of what this decision and this law predicts next year. It's the best indicator to see that better solutions are still offered than they are. The 2014 financial plan envisions a total amount of around 606 billion dinars for disabled pension needs. Social contributions from 2013 are projected with an increase of 7.1%. So there's order, discipline, and that's a reflection of this increase in the rate of contribution. Budget transfers are shrinking, and that's good and positive by approximately 3.1%, and no one can say now that it's not moving and that it's a different relationship. The last thing I want to say is that in 2014 the contribution of funds from the budget will reduce the total contribution of pension costs to GDP by 0.5% and will decrease from 13.3 to 12.8%. Comparing it from the year 2012 from 14% to 12.8%. These are positive effects, so you don't have to run away from them. At the very end, since I'm going to leave one part of the time for another part of the exposure, all the indicators in this sense that I've been talking about are that in a positive direction, however, the proposals set out in the law are moving. As a result, one message to the pensioners compared to everything we heard earlier, pensions will monitor the growth of wages in the public sector, that is also the commitment of this Parliament. Pensions will be safe and regular and pensioners will continue to use spas. Finally, the PUPS parliamentary group will give full support and contribution to its proposals and suggestions. We will support the Law on the Republic of Serbia's 2014 budget in voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29306	Bojan Đuric, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29307	I simply have to react to that rather strange structure you used, and I listened carefully, used Mr. Colakovic to try to react, as he said to my inappropriate exposure in this morning's session. First of all, I don't understand the reaction that six and a half hours after the session began. Then I tried to remember what I was talking about. I really don't understand what my exposure was about. I am, and the Rules of Procedure of this Assembly obliges me to do so, only to advocate, that then chair the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure is to conduct a debate, to respect the presence of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Business and that we can have a serious conversation. Then we have to open the question, and what's inappropriate. I'd understand if you said it was inappropriate for me to advocate, for example, that at the same time pay, pension, and some more compensation. Or that it's not domestically managed by the PIO fund. Or that a non-governmental pensioner union is used as a front for the political functioning of the PUPS. To be the director of a public enterprise without a competition, the Public Business Act is normally bound by the law. It could be said that it is inappropriate and that someone in this debate says, as you have just done, that pensions will continue to monitor the growth of wages in the public sector although it is clear that because of your policy, Mr Colakovic, I don't mean your own, the PUPS policies, these pensions have been following indeed since 2008 wages in Serbia, but they have been following them in a free fall which has been in this country's wages for almost six years. So if you ask me my recommendation that when you want to react to something I'm talking about, do it now or do it at least when I'm in the O.R. That's where I appeal to your or my age, I don't think it matters in this debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29308	Momo Colakovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29309	First, I will answer that I couldn't react or I would react, because Mr. Djuric was looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, it is worth the attention that if you want to at the age you have, you tell the vice president of the assembly at eleven o'clock capable of running a session and doing it ironically. This is unacceptable according to our assessment, and you should accept it if you are correct to apologize to Mr. Vice President of the Assembly. Secondly, you can't begin to slap both left and right immediately when you take either a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And now you've done it. What does this have to do with anything right now and whether someone was talking about us getting salaries and pensions and you said it? Or when you say that demagogy and fog is what PUPS says, and I'll read it to you. Then it is incorrect and unprincipled and disrespect and parliament, and especially us MPs. The way you've been elected, so we've been chosen and you have no right to speak, especially because we're different from you. We never told you that. I ask you to understand in that sense and act differently than you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29310	The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović, an injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29311	To advertise article 106, I think this is about disrespect for the Rules of Procedure, that in these two discussions or three speeches beyond the agenda, I believe that neither the pensioners nor their grandchildren are interested in these discussions that we are hearing here. Serbian citizens are interested in the budget, what they should expect from this government next year, whether there will be jobs, whether there will be pensions, whether children will have to leave the country with their belly after bread, do not care about our calculations, especially about someone's personal impression, on this or that issue. Please, the chairman, so that you don't violate the Rules of Procedure, that you bring this debate into question and that we discuss the agenda and that we hear from the minister who's staying here, and this morning there were three of them, the Prime Minister, let's hear if he really has anything to say to us new or we've heard everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29312	I'll do my best, Mr. Veselinovic. Mr. Colakovic, this was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djuric, you wanted to replicate Mr. Colakovic? I'm just asking you to put an end to it slowly and get back...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29313	I will end by asking Mr. Colakovic not to bring this debate down to personal discussion and evaluations of who has the right or the right to do something. So please let me work here normally. The other day, I was talking about it. Nobody here is anybody's mom, nobody's dad, nobody's grandma, nobody's grandpa. So we are all elected and you are right as MPs and we have the right to speak, as long as it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, I can't apologize because, no matter how many years it can be dangerous on the spine. The second thing, I really ask you, Mr. Colakovic, is that we never have a debate here based on how old he is. You can't insult me like that, but you can insult the minister. He's younger than me. I think that in this country, regardless of the years, they all have equal rights, for those of you who are older, who have contributed significantly to this country in life, thank you and great respect for it, but also do not expect me not to react to those situations when, using your political influence or power, I mean your party, again, not to you personally, in fact, additionally or ultimately destroyed Serbian public finances, by increasing that deficit by 500m euros in 2008, and we cannot recover from that problem until today. Whoever is age, who has the experience of reality, that's a question for voters, for the citizens of this country. I don't have to accept anything. I say, once again, I respect your age, I'd appreciate a little more honor in respect, so if you'd respond, that something really bothers you. You could have reacted. There's an institution that hurts the Rules of Procedure. I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29314	Mr. Jeremiah, you wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29315	Article 104, 106 and 107. The Rules of Procedure, Madam Chairman, it is unacceptable for you to allow Mr Đurić, for the third time, to address the MP and the MP club directly. Personally, we don't care about his thinking, but we're interested in the opinion of every correct MP who wants to make a contribution to someone's problem. This attitude does not contribute to any improvement, but simply by collecting small points before the elections where they now have, where they are interested in pensioners. I ask you to act quickly and in due course when it comes to individual MPs who act this way in a direct face-to-face manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29316	When it comes to replicas, then both sides, you'll see stenographic notes, as Mr. Colakovic did a little earlier, they spoke directly to each other. Please, let us all take care of the respect of the Rules of Procedure. Are you asking us to come to the voter's vote? All right, in voting day, we'll make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Colakovic, please give up the replica so we can get back to the agenda topic. You won't give up? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29317	Like you gave him! I'm convinced Mr. Djuric can't be harmed. I didn't say it like that, and for other reasons, because he doesn't respect what he's saying, he doesn't respect anyone. To say the same thing, what he said now, it doesn't make sense, that the pensioners destroyed Serbia's financial system. Yes, gentlemen, pensioners, 1,710.452, now listen to what Mr. Đuric says on behalf of the LDP, that pensions should remain at the level of 2008. Is that a pawn? Secondly, there is talk of the Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia, which is the most numerous social structure that brings together more than 900,000 pensioners. What gives you the right to talk like that about that group of pensioners, that it's some kind of background for PUPS. Yes, it's our electoral body, and what's the issue? You were talking about protected white bears. Does that make sense? The other day for the board members of the PIO Fund, you want me to read you what you said and is that the way to talk in parliament? I ask you to correct yourself and in that sense accept our well-intentioned criticism that you do not behave like this in parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29318	Ivan Andric, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29319	Of course, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. - the dignity of the Assembly. I ask you to end this, but when we do this, I think it's the presidency's duty, although I respect the chairman and beyond what he requires as a colleague's relationship, please don't let anyone here present themselves on behalf of a social group. No, not all pensioners are members of the PUPS and far away, one of the lowest possible percentages of the vote for the party in which it is represented. When we talk about PUPS, we don't talk about pensioners and we've said it a thousand times. My parents are pensioners, my grandmother's a pensioner, a lot of people I know are pensioners, and I don't know anyone who voted for PUPS. It is a political party that abuses a social group in its name and is very well solved in the economy, Mr Djelic can tell you. You can't call the product so-called. In a generic name, so should political parties not be able to call themselves a social group, because then we are not allowed the basic rule of democracy, which is to comment on the moves of the political party and are not pensioners, not sitting on the board of directors of the PIO Fund. (Chairman: Mr. Andric, please stick to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... There sits 21 people who allegedly manage the fund, the largest firm in Serbia, which spends five billion euros annually. If we can't talk about it because it's like an attack on pensioners, then there's no point in talking about anything, we're not talking about cell phone supplements, so that you recognize Marianne...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29320	Thank you, Mr. Andric. Who reported for a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29321	Member of 107th Infringement of the Dignity of the Assembly. Madam Chairman, this controversy that is now being run, it's not even about the budget, it's about PUPS. Let this controversy lead to some political choirs, gatherings. The assembly isn't where it's done. I ask you to get back on the agenda and stop, because theirs isn't, if they want to study the statutes and the PUPS program, let them come to us, we'll give them, and let them study.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29322	Mr. Jeremic, don't abuse the Rules of Procedure, too, that when you report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, you use time for replication, and I ask all the Members of the People to do so. (Freed Jeremic, from the post: I only explained the violation of the Rules of Procedure. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29323	With all my heart, I want this pointless controversy to end. Somehow after this warm meal break, PUPS MPs, how can I say, they kind of get in the way and we just have to defend ourselves. I have a lot of respect for this organization called the Union of Pensioners of Serbia, and it certainly brings together 900,000 pensioners on paper. Minister Krstic knows that, we have something more than 1,700,000 pensioners in this country, and I am sure that PUPS has not won so many votes in the elections. So people who are pensioners, like all other Serbian citizens, have their own political choice, political preferences and vote as they think they should. It's just strange to me, that out of the 900,000 members of the Pensioners' Alliance, these very few representatives of the PIO Fund Management Board are PUPS officials. So that overlap surprises me. I find the term "protected white bear" not offensive. If any of you are offended by this, I apologize to all of your senior officials who are under the Alliance of Pensioners of Serbia members of the Board of Directors of the PIO Fund. I don't know if I'm gonna get to PUPS to check it out. Perhaps it would help if Mr Krstic answered that question from a few days ago – do you have an accurate record of how the immovable property, or building of the PIO Fund, is used? It could be in one of those buildings and some of those rooms of this party or something, so maybe it's good to meet you in that place, not to watch the PUPS statute, but to talk, Mr. Krstic, about the PIO Fund reform. They'll see us, I guess, regardless of our age.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29324	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advocating Article 103(1). "The MP shall have the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which shall be done at the session of the Assembly that is under way, and immediately after the injury has been done." If someone instead of hurting the Rules of Procedure talks about pensioners, if they're saying that all pensioners aren't in PUPS, etc., what does that have to do with the Rules of Procedure? And what does it have to do with the Rules of Procedure, if in the course of advertising someone directly addresses the other MP and says it has nothing to do with the addition of mobile phones, Mariana, etc. I really don't know what any of this has to do with me, the addition of cell phones, and what that has to do with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure cannot be done by the PUPS. The breach of the Rules of Procedure can only be done by the chairman of the Assembly, or by the President or the Chairman, and any debate on PUPS and pensioners in the context of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure has no light connection with the advertising of the Rules of Procedure, and in particular, given that there is no right to replication, direct address to another MP, which is prohibited, and in the context of advertising the infringement of the Rules of Procedure. It is unacceptable for me, and I believe that Mr Andric has injured the Rules of Procedure, or that the chairman has injured the Rules of Procedure when he has allowed Mr Andric to perform in the manner he has performed after the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but since it is the opposition, the rules of the opposition, I will not ask that we declare it in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29326	Mr. Colakovic, I'm breaking up with the replicas. (2016 Colaković, from the post: I am reporting as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. I won't give you my word. The word is made by MP Slobodan Jeremic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29327	I'm advertising Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. Madam Chairman, I don't think it's right that you didn't give Mr. Djuric a warning about the words we're after. We're just defending ourselves, not attacking. We defend ourselves against those who wrongly attack us. We're not in some military barracks or, God forbid, we're in jail eating meals. He says, after a meal, they're something wary. We are not even a little combative, we are just trying to protect our right to protect the right of all MPs in this assembly, to have the right to free word, and that word must be spoken correctly. You were obliged to warn him, and at the very least to take away his word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29328	No, because I don't understand it the way you do. I'm sorry. (Free Jeremic, from the post: I ask that we plead in the voting day. ) The National Assembly will declare itself in the day of voting for damage to the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Mladjan Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29329	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the URS cannot vote for this budget, because we do not believe that the shift that Serbia needs has been made here. On the contrary, we think the budget was done by momentum. I saw there was no enthusiasm when Veroljub Arsic spoke. I've listened to him in this congregation more than once, and now it's as if he's been talking on the parastos. There was no enthusiasm in defending the budget by the strongest parliamentary group. This is where the prime minister said, and perhaps you mentioned it, I'm not sure, but they mentioned the ruling majority MPs, how irresponsiblely they were in charge in the past, how irresponsiblely the money was spent, and I'm asking you what's the difference in this budget? Is borrowing stopping or increasing? Is money spent responsibly or irresponsiblely? The biggest problem with this budget proposal is that it gives no perspective that people will get better. If you have predicted no economic growth, if there is no economic growth and if real wages and pensions are reduced, if agricultural subsidies are reduced, if there is no incentive for investment in the economy, so what do people hope for? Plus, you say yourself that the cost of interest is growing inexorably, growing exponentially, that the interest was 14 billion dinars in 2008 in the budget, and this year there are 114 billion. When I say these, I mean the planned 2014 year. I'm asking you, why don't you do anything to pay off your loans prematurely and stop this truly catastrophic situation with the exponential growth of interest? I can understand when it's said there's not enough money in the budget. I don't want to talk about the revenue side of the budget at all. Time will show whether it's well designed or not. It's not easy to project well. I know that because I've had the chance to see it myself. But I will talk about expenses, something that you, as finance minister, and all of your colleagues must influence. My question to you, Mr. Minister, is how could you allow Mr. Radulovic such a scandalous structure of expenditure at the Ministry of Economy? Why did you let him escape here from the assembly? I've been waiting to talk to him all day, and he left you. I don't want you to keep listening to something he needs to hear, but when that's the situation, I'm afraid you'll have to listen to him again, so you can tell him, or he can come back here, so who can talk, and he doesn't rat out what he had, so he ran away from the congregation. First, what is a big problem and what the whole government has hidden from the public, subsidies in the coming year, not that they are not reduced, but they are much larger. Six times more subsidies for so-called. social enterprises in restructuring, as they were this year. For the next year, 20 billion dinars have been given to these failed enterprises in the name of subsidies from 20 years ago. So much hasn't been given in the last six years together, total. Is it a responsible spending of money or is it a waste of money? Your colleague said here this morning – the goal of the ministry he runs is a healthy economy. Then why is he pouring six times as much money to unhealthy businesses as it was this year? What are 20 billion dinars to be given to enterprises in restructuring? How is it possible and is it true, tell me as finance minister, do you support the economy minister's position that Serbia's development chances are in the restructuring companies, that this is the greatest chance of Serbia's economy, that it should give 20 billion dinars for an operation he calls balance-cleaning? I'm asking you, do you know what kind of money that is, 200 million euros? Do you know what that'll do? Are you sure you're not opening Pandora's box? When you pay those 20 billion, they won't ask you after 200 billion, because they won't get all those who used to work in restructuring companies, because some of them went bankrupt, they won't get that money, for example. ‘Viscosis’, e.g. "Zorca" from Šapco. There's a lot of businesses that don't work anymore, and the same rights you give to FAP, which you give to IMT, the IMR, they'll ask for you. You are not aware of what kind of Pandora's box you are opening and that by directing most of the budget, the Ministry of Economy to failed social enterprises in restructuring, you are working, not personally, but Mr Radulovic, a double deception. He first appeared here as some ultraneoliberal, so he talked for two months about how only the ambience needed to be fixed, so people would rush into Gajin Han, and Surdulica, to invest, just to make a good ambience. I'm not saying you don't need to fix the environment. I'm only criticizing why in 100 days, here, tomorrow is your 100-day government, I haven't heard anyone brag about those 100 days. Why isn't that environment fixed? Why is no new investment agreed? If the key thing in the ministry is to give 20 billion dinars to enterprises in restructuring and to see them as the backbone of the rise of the Serbian economy, it is difficult for us, if our economic recovery will be based on what will happen to IMT, IMR, FAP and other non-injurious enterprises, as your colleague said, in some of the robbery privatisations. No one wanted to buy them for 20 years. What kind of robbery privatisation? When you look at who these firms are in restructuring – "Petar Drapshin" from Mladenova, "21. October, from Kragujevac, ‘The glass industry’ in Pančevo, IMT, IMR, ‘The first five-year-old’, ‘The flag of trucks’, ‘The flag of special vehicles’. I can tell you, there's dozens and dozens of them. Now the Minister of Business is giving us a speech about some so-called In fact, these companies were never privatized because no one wanted to buy them from serious companies. Can you solve the question of these companies by cleaning their balances by pouring 20 billion dinars into their well? I'm afraid you won't do anything about it. What's he gonna do, for example? someone with a clean FAP balance? Will he come to invest, as the Minister of Economy says, only if you clean up the balance sheet of a company that has equipment 40 years ago or is that going to happen to the IMT, the IMR? It's amazing that in the conditions of this kind of savings, where you'd say you're turning your hands to both pensioners and doctors and teachers, you're releasing not a small item, but six times more subsidies for these enterprises in restructuring. It is no longer only Minister Radulovic's problem. It's a question of your larger budget deficit. Let's say you gave that money, that 20 billion dinars to boost investment in some healthy projects, and you didn't foresee in the budget or money for contracts that weren't closed, and there were pre-contracts with the Finnish PKC, which should open a thousand and a half new jobs in the truck cable industry in Smederev. There are no 10m euros in participation in the capital of a joint investment with Burning, which in Zajecar is to build a factory with Panasonic, to produce a million washing machines annually and to provide 250m euros from exports. You didn't predict money for a joint investment with Mubadal. Here, I'm the Deputy Committee with the Emirates. I don't see any money in my budget. How are we going to do this factory, the plane component, and we can do it, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding, if there's no money for it? How is it possible that from investments in the export-oriented sector there is no money, and you gave 20 billion dinars to well-owned enterprises that have neither market nor technology, and they have workers who are now out of business because they have no market? What's also bad, you cut off the subsidies to agriculture. Under the law passed by the Assembly, 5% of Serbia's budget should be defined for agriculture, not because it is a figure, but because agriculture with auto-industry is the only branch that has contributed to GDP growth of 2.4% this year. So I suggest you take a look at the amendments to the URS. One of the amendments also suggests adding 9.5 billion dinars to agriculture. Here's the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Glamocic. Ask him if it's more useful to give those 9.5 billion for agriculture or these failed enterprises in restructuring? What we suggest is that this money should be distributed to five basic items. First, it's an investment grant. Without investing in agriculture, productivity cannot be raised and Serbia will continue to export three times less per hectare than Croatia and 30 times less per hectare than the Netherlands. You should make a programme to approve farmers, such as in 2005 and 2006, from 30 to 50% of the grants for investments in new equipment, in the construction of greenhouses, plastics, for all that can increase productivity in agriculture. You need two billion dinars for that purpose. Secondly, we suggest you define an additional 2.7 billion dinar for additional subsidies for direct payments per hectare. We think that, in some ways, it should also be encouraged by the smaller agricultural holdings that are mostly in Serbia. Today they all have six thousand dinars per hectare, whether small or large. We think that small households, which have farmland up to five hectares, should have 9,000 dinars per hectare, so 50% more than those that are larger. Also, you should stimulate those holdings whose carriers are young to 40 years old and women and give them 50% more subsidies than these others, so nine thousand dinars per hectare. Then you should return support to non-communicative households, at least 50,000 dinars per member of the household. This existed at a time when Vojislav Kostunica was prime minister, when I was minister of finance. The fees were paid to those non-communicative households. Today in Serbia, unfortunately, we have a huge number of people, 213 thousand agricultural pensioners, who have an average pension of only 10,200 dinars. It's only 23% of the Republic's profits. These people can't live on it. It is therefore necessary that those who do not sell their goods on the market for nursing households provide support in the form of direct payments of 50,000 dinar per household member. We calculated it to cost three billion dinars. You need to define additional money for rural development and, too, to avoid scandals like this with aflatoxin, to allocate additional funds to control food safety, quality control and food safety checks. For both of these purposes, it takes a billion and 450 million dinars. So our proposal is -- take it off the Department of Industry's division, off this subsidisation item, social, failed enterprises 9.5 billion and make sevap, give it to agriculture. Split it up, if you want, and in a different way, but put it where you can get the money back, not where it's going to be thrown, spent, and the question is what it's for. The next thing we think you should do, you can't expect the stabilisation program to work if you don't do two more things -- don't speed up economic growth, the opposite of what's going to happen. You're slowing him down. You said in your forecast for economic policy, which is an integral part of the budget's reasoning that you expect a growth of only 1%. That's more than twice as low as this year, but it won't be that much, because when you cut spending, when you cut people's real wages and pensions, it's not even possible to have any economic growth at all. On the other hand, you have no incentive to direct investment. Why are you ashamed of that? Is it because this minister who escaped made the entire campaign to destroy the Fund for Development, to destroy the SIEPA, an institution that is well-deserved to improve our image, even in parts of some industries such as automobiles? Thanks to this very institution today, we are not only exporting wheat, corn, and ore, raw materials, but Serbia is re-exporting cars. We export refrigerators, we export goods of a wide range of value consumption. Instead of continuing to do so, the programme is interrupted, their budget is cut to shut down the institution, and it is given to 20 billion failed social enterprises with no perspective. Do you know when one of these companies can have a perspective? Well, if you pay someone to come in there and invest. That's what we did when we brought "Fiat" into the flag. We paid for the Fiat to come, otherwise the flag would look the same as today looks "14 October", with no chance, no perspective, with workers coming out on the street all the time and strike because they have no job and no pay. You have to pay Mercedes to go to FAP, pay them just as much as we gave the Fiat. Hungarians gave Mercedes 15,000 euros per new job to build a factory in Hungary. In Slovakia, the car industry employs 200,000 people, Slovakia which has the same population as Serbia. We've got a lot of people working in the auto-industry now, and there's more to it. Why don't you start negotiations with the Fiat? I don't mean you, but the one who escaped, the Minister of Economy. Why not start with the Fiat to negotiate that another new car model is being produced in Kragujevac, to double production, to export 300,000 cars annually, to open up another dozen components? Well, that would be the development part of the budget. Finally, and we'll have a chance to talk about it when the amendments come and debate, you said that the Serbian economy is a train going at full speed and that you are now allegedly turning. Well, don't turn around. Why don't you tell the MPs who's your third-rate spending item in the budget? First the pensions, then the salaries, and the third the interest on the loans. I'm asking you why you didn't predict aggressive deleveraging in next year's budget? You have associates here who, I'm sure, can calculate for you, and I know because I asked, they calculated for me six months ago, that's when I told the government, if the 2.5 billion euros of the most expensive loans, first of all on the domestic market, and then some foreign ones, there's no way that Serbia is stabilising public finances. The complete stabilisation program that has been proposed will fall into the water over six months and will tell you in six months, as he told you a few days ago, that you need an additional 300m-euro savings, and he will tell you another 300m by mid next year. Why do you have to pay off expensive loans? I assume this chart was given to you, this chart that I did while I was at the Ministry of Finance. It shows what you said orally - 135 billion dinars will be interest in that next year, and if you pay off 2.5 billion of the most expensive loans prematurely, it'll fall to 86. You're saving 50 billion dinars. It's a huge amount of money and you're saving it permanently. You have to pay off the London Club till the end. I suggested and half of that debt was paid off this spring. It needs to be paid off completely. You should return those bonds of the first Mirko Cvetkovic before the time, because they carry interest 7.25%. You need to pay off early on the domestic market everything with a high interest rate and a high margin for "Serbiagas" debts, for "Gallenika", for JAT. Where did you get that money? Two ways. Sell the property that is now unproductively used and use until the last dinar to pay off the debt, because the debt will eat the future and pensioners and all employees in the public sector, because if it is not done constantly it will be necessary every year to cut salaries and pensions and so on for the rest of your life. The question arises – do we want to live here in our country or do we want to live? Well, I guess we all want to live, both our people and us sitting here in the congregation. When some say the budget is real, I can say that you book-keepingly did it right, but did you do everything you had to do? You're not. Please accept the amendments to the URS, accept the early payment of the most expensive loans and reroute this waste of money to the Ministry of Agriculture and to healthy investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29330	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29331	Thank you. I'm gonna start answering the items the way you said. The budget was done by momentum, you said first, and what's the difference, what's responsible, what's irresponsible spending money. The first difference is that now we finally have the same figures with the rest of the world about what our deficit is, which we haven't had so far. You mentioned a parastos. It is a sad situation in which the situation is left, but at least we decided to face reality and move forward. We predicted economic growth of 1%. We predicted economic growth pessimistically, and hopefully it would be more than that, but we predicted it realistically. We didn't predict it to revise it in March, April or when next year. You haven't talked about the revenue side of the budget, neither will I. That's what the Fiscal Council was talking about, and we have to do a lot of work here anyway. You have already undertaken certain reforms in the tax administration, which I believe are going in the right direction. I think we have to deal with the gray economy a lot more aggressively. In order to be able to start dealing with the gray economy in an adequate way, we have to treat everything equally. In order for us to have to treat everything equally, we have to stop ignoring the fact that we have 153 minimum companies that have been in restructuring for ten years and who have been living, I'm going to use your terminology, which is what you said investors haven't come to for 10 or 20 years. They didn't come and in part, I want it to be clear to everyone because there was no certainty about what was going on in Serbia, there was no macro-fiscal stability. We've had a galloping deficit for four years, this is going to be the fifth. Let's not talk about public debt either. No one thinks Serbia's development chance is in these 153 companies, but what we're talking about, 20 billion are not subsidies to these companies. Twenty billion is the transition fund of its kind which, in accordance with the new law on privatisation and bankruptcy, will provide compensation for those workers who will be a technological surplus. You yourself made a plan while you were at the head of the Ministry of Finance and Business, which meant and which you committed to solving all these restructuring enterprises by July 1st of the following year. Of course, in addition to the wish and the dead letters on paper, there was nothing significant more there and in 2013 the funds were not allocated. I don't know if you had a plan that you didn't want to share with the rest of Serbia about how to solve every single company? I don't think so. I don't think we just didn't show the situation as it really is. We wanted to face facts. We face facts. Restructure companies are a problem. Some of them have a future. Many of them believe they have a future, at least their parts. That's what we have to work on, and that's what we're working on, when we talk about "Fap" and "Mercedes" and when we talk about many others. But ignoring him, I don't think that's the answer. These companies, you know this well, because you have this report, too, cost the state $750 million a year in the name of unpaid taxes that continue to create competition that is unequal on the market, which creates abject, i.e., the principle of apportionment for others who do not pay taxes. Not to talk about contributions and other things, not to talk about employment that happens there even though there's no job and production. So no one says they're a developmental opportunity. The development opportunity may be some of them where there is a healthy part or potential for a healthy part, to be built on clear grounds, to be built on the principles and foundations of a new law on privatisation and bankruptcy, which will be discussed this year, of course in this Parliament. So we certainly hope that these 20 billion dinars won't have to be spent on it. Since there was no clear plan for each individual company, I believe that the Ministry of Economy is working on these plans for each individual company and trying to find a way, and what I'm going to do and what I'm doing between making budgets and the remaining obligations that we had with these laws is that we're trying to find a solution, that we're trying to find investors. It can't be done, except the company by company, and that's how we're going to address it. If we assume that we want to solve this in order to have a healthy basis for further a prerequisite for a healthy business environment, where someone will think about Serbia not as a state aid country, but as a country where they can invest and operate in a free way that, implies those things you haven't talked about, which has not been even done in previous years, including this last one, which is the Labour Act, the Planning and Construction Act, we are prepared to take that responsibility. We are prepared to say that the budget deficit will be 0.5% higher than it would otherwise be, to take that responsibility and say, no, we do not have 17 development projects in this year that will be financed by the state and which are only at the level of some drafts, many of them are and the question is whether they have economic logic. So if we assume that we want to deal with it in a responsible way, then we come up with this next story that's mostly a story of good wishes. A story in which there is no answer to the question – where does money come from? It would be great if we had another ten billion. It would be great if we had another ten billion to give in subsidies for anything, not to talk about these 20 billion dinars not being used for what they're used for, so that we would have to give subsidies to these companies, as we have so far through the Development Fund and through many others, below the line and in other ways. Subsidies because we've been lending loans that have never been returned, and that's why we have MPL in large percentages. As far as agriculture is concerned, you are aware that you have voted in this law that according to this budget, which is in line with the law on agriculture, according to this budget is a budget for agriculture of 5.66% of the Republic's budget. The budget of the Republic is seen on the revenue side, as well as on everything else. As for the very way of subsidising and all the other details you've talked about, the Minister of Agriculture can speak more. I'd like to talk to the other things. No one in this budget has abolished the Development Fund, has been abolished. I don't think it should work the same way it's worked so far, that there should be stricter criteria, that money should be given where it can be returned. Nobody cancels the SIEP with this budget. Plans for the SIEPU, its organisational structure and place within or outside the economy ministry, will be spoken of by the Minister of Economy when it appears. As for interest on loans, I agree with you, you talked about it last year, it's included in the fiscal strategy, and for this year, we have expensive loans that we should pay off. It's a good thing we paid 300m euros to the London Club last year. We have expensive loans from the first ten-year bond emissions to 7.5%. What we did, we assumed that the cheap loans we'd get would be used instead of those expensive loans, because the situation on the international financial market is getting worse. We made a plan where it is clearly seen in the fiscal strategy to stabilise our public debt at below 70% by 2016, which is enough. He means something, but it doesn't necessarily mean we have to wake up to sell things without avoiding structural reforms because they may be politically harder or cost more. On that side, I don't think we have a fundamental disagreement, but we also can't talk and now we're surprised that from 14 billion we've come to 114 billion. We were sitting on our hands, sitting on our hands while it was happening because we weren't ready to introduce paying classes, to take some of these measures that we've now taken. You've taken some of these measures in the last year. You have raised some of the measures you are now criticizing, raised VAT, higher rate, etc. Unfortunately, what's left is what we're starting now. There's a pay issue that we're talking about, by selectively freezing employment, we're going to talk more about this week, we're talking about extended pension indexation. As such, we are talking about reforming the pension system that will be implemented next year. We plan 1% of real GDP growth, but we also plan to amend the Labour Act, by the end of the year it will be in parliament, voted in January. We plan to change the Law on Planning and Construction that will allow foreign investors to come. It's all the things we talked about last week, the measures you've been carrying out, of course they don't make sense. Now we take steps in that direction and don't put our hands on our eyes because we don't like saying we have a problem. We have a problem in sensitive places, in demographically sensitive places, because we need to keep people from coming to Belgrade. We'll solve this problem and solve it in a responsible way, in the best possible way. We'll get those foreign investors and we'll hear what they need to get here. I believe that when we change the Labour Act, when we change many other things, we won't have to fire people to hire them. If I can recap, everything you said would be great if it could. We decided not to ignore this year that it can't and I think it's a small difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29332	The word of the People's MP Momo Colaković, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29333	The President-in-Office, respected ministers, I respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. On two occasions, you hurt the Rules of Procedure. Article 103(2) I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've had an advantage over the others. You did it on purpose, so you wouldn't give me your word. And secondly, according to the Rules of Procedure, the priority is to have authorised representatives or heads of parliamentary groups. Second of all, you've hurt your ankle. 104th and 107th because you have allowed the abuse of certain Members of the Rules of Procedure and have not interrupted them despite the insult of the PUPS MPs, by talking about meals, about insults, and by not knowing everything. Secondly, you've allowed certain MPs to be false. No member of the PUPS management shall be in the Management Board of the PIO Fund. That's a lie. You let him say it. That's the same thing when one of the MPs says that pensioners don't vote for PUPS, so normally...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29334	Mr. Cholakovic, I'm really not going to let you rephrase any further.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29335	Please, don't interrupt me. You allowed it, not me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29336	Don't replicate, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29337	Please, let me finish. What kind of way is that? And you have a privileged opposition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29338	Did you say that to me, "What is this way, or did it seem to me?" I'm really sorry. Have respect for me, as you ask me to.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29339	I have great respect for everyone, but you can't let MPs treat us like that when you let me say... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... That 530,000 and over, for the SPS coalition, the PUPS, the JS voted citizens, and that they acted that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29340	Thank you. Now let me explain, Mr. Cholakovic. Therefore, Article 96 regulates which order is given by the chairman. He's the first person to propose an act. It is in this case Minister Krstic who answered the word and in that sense I gave him, before you, the right to the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29341	I'm not talking about Krstic, I'm talking about Dinkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29342	If you'd like to make a statement in the voting day...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29343	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29344	All right, in voting day, we'll make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Radenkovic, a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29345	Dear Vice President, Article 27, I have asked you and the Finance Committee to remain as you were from the beginning. Don't change, you've been great, you've been great at leading this assembly, and don't let yourself, because of the situation where your political option is at the moment, that you're changing your relationship with the MPs and making some progress and being so nervous. We respect you and please, simply, Mr. Colakovic is absolutely right. He wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure, you ignored him, you gave him away, so you broke the Rules of Procedure, you shouldn't have done it out of respect for the MP's group of pensioners, because of their age and for everything else and for those insults that came from the LDP, so I ask you to stay as you were and you'll be all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29346	Mr. Radenkovic, I thank you for your good intentions, but I have the Deputy Secretary General sitting next to me. So he's a witness to everything that's going on on the screen. If you don't believe me, ask after him, and you'll see what's really true. The word has Mladjan Dinkic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29347	Do not trust all of your colleagues, Radulovic, but read something yourself. Take a look at the government's document of June, an action plan to complete the restructuring of social enterprises. It was supported by the World Bank, supported by the entire Serbian government, divided all businesses into four different groups, from businesses to businesses. With you sitting Mr. Nesa Milovic, he worked the program, he is your assistant minister, ask him, if Radulović is filling your head with misinformation, because it will cost you dearly. Why? This year, look at the budget, 3.5 billion dinars were given to these enterprises in restructuring, and next year 20 billion, six times higher. It's subsidies. Just because you're classified in position 621, doesn't mean you'll appreciate the DRI. He'll give you back where he belongs. Is there supposed to be a transition fund? He should, but he's never been on a six, never in the history of all of this country's budgets, always on four. It's a subsidy, you spend money once, it's a subsidy. What is also not good for you, if you have a colleague who says that foreign investment is capital nonsense, then today tells us that the future of the Serbian economy lies in the development of the domestic economy, so we hope that he thinks of the private sector of domestic small and medium-sized enterprises, and then he says – no, but we give the most from the budget of the economy for enterprises in restructuring. It takes eight to 10 billion for a transition fund, no more dinars. You're spending, like, 12 billion dollars. This guarantee fund, that's what Ceda Jovanovic was talking about this morning, in 2003 it was... (President: Time, Mr. Dinkic. )......................................................................................................... established by the government of Zoran Djindjic, so the concept was abandoned because it failed to deliver results, did not help reduce interest rates, but only those companies that can get it through banks still received loans.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29348	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29349	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, certainly it is a good chance that after one decade of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ivica Dacic, we have been contacted about the draft budget bill for 2014 and it is certainly a strong message and proof of the unity of the Government of Serbia in the action of fiscal consolidation and economic restructuring that is due to follow in the coming year. Of course, I would also like to say that Mr Krstic, above all, represents the formally responsible minister and competent to conduct a discussion on the draft budget law in the course of the course. The difficult economic and social situation in the conditions of a narrowed area for the avoidance of the crisis is a fact and in such a situation there are few good options, but facing the truth and the real situation, it is the government's way of dealing with Serbia and citizens, and we heard from the minister, the truth has been told, therefore, to the citizens and the world, about the state of public finances of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the draft budget, I was thinking, since we had a debate on measures, that is, a proposal of 11 laws showing these measures, what approach today to take and respecting the debate we have had so far, I would like first of all to show the budget as a result in one triangle, first of all to see what economic indicators are and what point we are at today, which is the goal we have in the next few years, which is presented to the fiscal strategy, which are the measures that we are going to come up with and, of course, as a result of all that, we have a budget proposal for 2014. The facts and economic indicators are that we are on the point that we have a situation since 2008 and by the end of 2012 we record a GDP decline on average 0.5%, that we have an unemployment growth from 14% to 24%, with privatisation, some said it is inappropriate to say "the robbery", I would say that it was a missed privatisation. But if we look at the results of this privatisation, many destroyed companies, many fired workers, 762,000 unemployed, it seems to me that such results seriously run for such a single robbery privatisation. On the other hand, we are in a situation of exponential public debt growth since 2008 with about 29%, until today when we will have over 60%, and our target and target was 45%, which is what we have foreseen by the Budgetary System Act and fiscal rules. We currently have a level of a grey economy of 30% of GDP. They're facts, they're economic indicators, and we're going from here to a solution to a situation like this. On the other hand, the goal to which we seek, in short, I would like to say that they are good, that the government has left them well, but they are logical, when we look at and look at this situation that I have presented. Certainly, the first goal is to reduce the fiscal deficit because it represents one of the main public debt crisis generators and targets with 7.1% of GDP's fiscal deficit at the overall level of the consolidated state. The aim is to reduce GDP by 4% in 2015 and 2016, and of course, with the idea of putting the basic crisis element under public debt until the end of 2016 and 2017, and to make public finances sustainable and growth in the economy. Here, indeed, that it is necessary, is the fact that many here have said that we now have interest in the total expenditure of the budget that is growing year by year and we currently have that at over 10% of the total expenditure at 114 billion with two percentage points in 2008 and costs, interest is greater than social protection of all users and twice the capital investment. It's one big, burning problem and the fact is that we have to commit to this problem. These are simply economic indicators and figures. In terms of achieving the objectives set, I said in that third side of the triangle where I look at this budget, the objectives and consolidation of public finances are set. The government has proposed the measures that were set out in the amendments to the 11 laws we discussed and we have seen that there are indeed no beautiful big words, but determined, unpopular, difficult, and necessary measures. I said that even then in the debate, that it might be difficult in the history of public finances of the Republic of Serbia to find a way to solve the problem in the first step of the public sector, which this government is doing, and we have, above all, a reduction in public spending and savings in the public sector when it comes to the solidarity tax, which we have discussed, which will lead to a reduction in certain salaries. Signs of a ban on public sector employment, as there has been frantic information that we currently have 740,000 employees in the public sector, which has exceeded all expectations. I would agree with the Prime Minister in the debate, and that is the fact that he is popularly called – a ban on employment, but that it is an attempt, a desire and the intention of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to put under public sector employment control because this irrational and party employment must stop, we all know that. However, I would also support this desire to address the real needs of the public sector, to reach an optimal structure of employees, so as not to really endanger the efficiency and functioning of the public sector, and there is a certain way for the government to implement it. Of course, this measure of reducing the time period for receiving officials due to the termination of the function from six months to three months is the measure to be supported, but I also said that we have difficult and unpopular measures, and above all, when it comes to the public sector, the need for additional revenues is always one of the sources of taxes, and that this is not the situation I was talking about in the very introduction of my address, is certain that the SPS would not support such measures, particularly in terms of increasing the basic rate from eight to 10%, the elimination of certain tax exemptions, above all in the Company Tax Act, the reduction of wage indexation and pensions. But, respecting the position we are going from and the fact that this is a good basis for us to come to a stabilisation and sustainable growth in our country, we supported the proposal of these measures, wishing that good preparation and the fight against the grey economy would continue next year. If all of this, this triangle that I'm talking about, we look at, is understandable because stopping the country's economic collapse and economic recovery is a national priority for the government of the Republic of Serbia. We can see this budget as a first step in the consolidation of public finances and a major fiscal adjustment. I said there are not many options in these conditions, but unfortunately there are no fast solutions that require a continuity of economically reasonable decisions over a period of several years. I also agree with the minister that this trip and that period will not really be easy. This means that we need and that we need a necessary shift in access to public finances given the situation and setting up likely access to public finances, and it seems to me that today the prime minister has said this, that this is one chance for a new start and that public finances should be seen as a problem that we have had with resolving the status of Kosovo and Metohija, European integration, fighting corruption and crime, because the sustainability of public finances will depend on and resolving many other problems facing the Republic of Serbia. Indeed, this time I want to call for a general consensus in the society of all political parties that we have one such approach to the treatment of public finances and budgets as all of us, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and not just as a problem of this government or possibly the ruling majority. Of course, one such approach to finance must also result in the fact that, as a society, we finally stop spending much more than we have earned. That's what we say fiscal adjustment, maybe to citizens it sounds incomprehensible, but basically, we need to make our consumption known in real terms. As a result, it seems to me that the government has shown, in this regard, through the necessary and the courage and determination to face the truth, proposing beyond the necessary measures. After that, we received a draft budget which is currently under discussion. I want to say, in all respects, that before us the 2014 budget, which with revenue and expenditure is realistically projected. It represents one reflection of the objective state of our society, our public finances. If we have a consistent approach, which I was talking about, it seems to me that we are running to prepare the environment in which the state of Serbia is running for a serious state and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia as responsible citizens. Incomes are somewhat more significant projected with a 6.5% growth compared to expenditures of 5.8%. GDP growth is planned by 1%. This is all a projected total deficit of a consolidated state of 7.1% of GDP, but what is really important, this budget will ensure the performance of all state functions. It is not populist, so there will be pensions, there will be wages, social protection will be provided for all users who are somewhere at 107 billion. What is important is also certain investments of 52 billion dinars for corridors, for irrigation, for clinical centres. It is important that the government indeed insists on making a priority when it comes to capital investments in terms of the measure of general social benefit and the cost of these investments and that wherever possible affirm public private partnership and concessions as a source of fresh capital in the Republic of Serbia. In this place, I'd like to say that he is real when it comes to the AP Vojvodina budget. Why do I want to say that? We believe that the issue of funding of the AP Vojvodina needs to be resolved by the Law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina and in this way, systemically, comprehensively, and consistently address the problem. Of course, that the financing of the AP Vojvodina will have an impact on the quality of life of the people of Vojvodina, but we want such a Vojvodina, therefore functional first of all, in an economic sense that will improve the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, but not only for the citizens of the AP Vojvodina but also for autonomy in Serbia, so also for all citizens of the AP Vojvodina. I would only remind all those who are trying to keep the AP Vojvodina budget politicised every time, that it is made up by the same principles, with the same arguments that it has been done over the past few years, and that the deadline for the adoption of the law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina is set by the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution expires in 31.12.2008. Indeed, when we respect all these facts, I appreciate that the draft budget is very realistic and also the budget for the AP Vojvodina. Dear Ministers, it is necessary, as you announced, to complete the privatisation of 153 companies, in which the state invested 750m euros annually. We really want to support such a measure and we think that it is necessary, but we really ask you to focus all your strengths and resources in this process, first of all, on keeping as many of these businesses and jobs as possible, so that it is your first option, and then all the others at your disposal. It seems to me that we must all work together, especially the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Resort Ministry to make a full effort. In this you will have the full support of the SPS, with the desire to achieve in this process and all other very important issues, when it comes to the Labour Act and the Bank Act, the Law on Planning, full social dialogue and the Governments and trade unions and employers and the professional public, because it seems to us that only in this way can we come to a socially sustainable economic policy that takes care of every citizen and worker whom, unfortunately, some people are trying and starting to treat as a cost, as my colleague Petronijevic has painted it. We don't think that such a policy is good, a policy that only leads through large numbers, by representing large numbers, without understanding life. In that sense, I say once again, for full social dialogue and social sustainable policy, you will have the support of the SPS. The data tells us that in the previous period, as far as the state is concerned, we've been acting thriftly, but the imbalance occurred when budget revenues failed. There I really agree that and I think that most MPs and political parties agree that there is enough room for tax collection to increase and that, above all, the grey economy, which is at this point about 30% of the gross social product. We expect that next year, on this basis, we have increased revenues somewhere in the amount of 16 billion dinars, or 0.4% of gross social product, and in 2015 and 2016 0.5%. When it comes to the gray economy, I am in the principle of debate, when it comes to tax laws, but I want, by estimating the essence and essence of this issue, to once again underline some of the causes and possible measures to actually achieve certain results in the following year. First of all, the causes of the grey economy can be fiscally reflected in complicated and expensive procedures and inadequate organisation, the equipment of the tax administration or high levels of tolerance. Of course, and low productivity in terms of the economic crisis, many subjects are forced to profit only in the gray zone. Also, we have a significant share of cash transactions and a low level of tax morality. These are some of the most characteristic causes. Of course, when we come from all of this, we also have to anticipate certain measures that can be like some sort of solution and some have already been withdrawn, when it comes to tax administration, and it is about simplifying procedures and these are these electronic applications and united charges, but it has to go towards increasing the likelihood of tax evasion detection and there is an inevitable factor in the tax administration. You said that certain reforms were undertaken, but we still don't have enough taxpayers on the ground, and it's known that one good tax collector is not easy to get, because his training is important and it's difficult to create him in a certain period. That is why, indeed, when it comes to tax administration organisations, it is inadmissible that the competition lasts for more than a year and that about 50 exposures, branches, no directors, including Subotica, Novi Sad 1, Belgrade 1, Zemun, Zvezda, which certainly produces one uncertainty in the work. Of course, we also need to change the methodology of selecting control and we still don't have a unique information system in the tax administration. We've got a so-called. The DIS and the “Mihailo Pupin” Institute and currently do not have the right analytical balance of debt among taxpayers, which is one obstacle. It takes consistent application of criminal measures, and when it is discovered, he must know that he will be punished and not be paid to go into the gray zone. In the end, I want to say that the cross-evaluation of assets and incomes is long waiting for us, because it seems to me that the tax administration is not well and sufficiently organized and prepared for one important procedure, but the beginning of such cross-control of property and income would be a strong message that the state is finally resolved, that it is best possible to deal with the gray economy. Of course, electronic payment should also be speeded up in all parts and catering, taxis, wherever possible, to reduce cash transactions to the minimum possible extent. Respecting these proposals and that this budget is realistic, that it is one basis for fiscal consolidation and enforceable in the coming year, the SPS will support the 2014 draft budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29350	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29351	Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today the DS is watching, possibly the fourth budget failure of this government. Of course, it fills no one's pleasure, but above all, with concern for the people's gain. We live in Serbia today where a completely unacceptable political situation is created, if you will. Unfortunately, this situation is economically dramatic. We live in a country that today in a situation where this budget is presented to the National Assembly, we have, if you want the apotheosis of this government, which can be presented through an educational example from ancient Greece. In ancient Greece, there was a famous tyrant in Old Athens named Pizistrat. He came to power like that, and there you will be recognized, gentlemen of the ruling party, which he beat himself and then went out into the square and said – citizens, see what they do to me, give me all the power in this country. That's what's happening today, ladies and gentlemen in our Serbia. What is also the fact that in this online abnormal news that we receive today and yesterday, the government brings this budget to Serbian citizens. What is the situation in Serbia, we have spoken several times, and that is what my distinguished DS colleagues will say. I'll just say a few things, while we're talking about the budget being presented in a way that wages and pensions will only be increased by 1% per year for the next three years, while inflation is incomparably higher. This means that a worker who today has an average salary of 380 euros for three years will have a salary of 310 euros and a pensioner who now has an average pension of 200 euros will receive a pension of 165 euros in three years. That's not funny, Minister Cross. That's sad. You promised to cut the electricity price by 20%, and instead, you increased it by 11% and now they're mass excluding it by poor households, while we're sitting here, and some are laughing. With a solidarity tax, you take 20% to 25% of the salaries of doctors, professors, police officers and soldiers, but that's why there's still money to build cableways, "old mountains" and other things. Social benefits have also been reduced, as the government has given up helping pensioners with the lowest incomes. After four missed budgets, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this government cannot put together a rational budget. That's why she led public finances and the economy to collapse. Budget revenues in October were 22% or almost 200m euros lower than in the same month of the previous year, the best indicator of the alarming economic situation in the country. It is not surprising that today's Fiscal Council suggests that the government, otherwise boasting of zero tax-free tolerance, would not have such a problem with the deficit if financial discipline were at the level, imagine, from 2009 to 2012. That's what the Fiscal Council says, not me. Instead of saving, the proposed budget envisions an additional increase in deficits and government debt, so it turns out that the state would save more if it decided to temporarily finance instead of a new budget that exclusively saves on citizens and takes out 300m euros from citizens' pockets in 2014. Some previous speakers spoke of it. The Democratic Party therefore requires that the proposed budget be withdrawn from the procedure, and what if you do not, we will certainly not support this budget, to stop the selective application of economic measures, until a general consensus is reached in the country on key elements of economic policy. We appeal again, even though we know you won't accept it. We asked that not only the parties be involved, but the trade unions and the professional public and to find a solution to this alarming, terribly bad situation in which the state of our finances and economies is located. We ask that this consensus be based on the following principles, ministers, reduction of public expenditure and budget deficits, a public spending moratorium, a ban on issuing new guarantees to public enterprises, support for development sectors, agriculture, food industry, energy, education, IT sector, investment in employment, instead of investing in severance payments as you predicted, the professionalisation of state-owned enterprises and the permanent problem of the biggest losers. Of course, you haven't even considered this and insist on the economic policy that has led us to the story of the bankruptcy of the state. We're living worse today than yesterday, and we're gonna sacrifice ourselves for the next three years to make it worse for us than it is today. That's the truth about the budget you delivered to us. It is a message sent by the government in an alleged concern for Serbia's rescue. This is shown by all economic parameters, and what worries most is that there is no real basis for economic growth in the coming period. Buying power has fallen so much in Serbia that even an increase in electricity prices does not lead to inflation anymore. Imagine that. While tax revenues in September 5%, in October as much as 22% lower than in the same period in 2012, 22% of your tax revenues are lower. Before increasing VAT, before increasing excise and profit taxes, for the next three years, a real decline in wages and pensions in the public sector announced, so that purchasing power will not have a positive impact on economic growth. For the past two years, the minimum level of investment has been realised over the past ten years, and there is no announcement of new significant investments, so new investments will not bring us growth in economy and employment. It's a sad truth, Minister. It is clear that your authority has not provided a basis for at least the minimal economic growth that we will achieve this year, let alone for a growth of 5.6% that is necessary for citizens to live normally and in accordance with some positive living standards. Your government has been trying to stabilise this country's public finances for over a year. Using simple logic, increase budget revenues through tax growth and reduce expenditures through realistically lower salaries and pensions. That is why in the previous year we have implemented two tax reforms and adopted three budgets. What's the score? The fall of tax revenues, the growth of deficits and the huge growth of the public debt of the Serbian state. Have we stabilized public finances? Far from it. At the same time, reforms and economic development have been completely neglected and this returns to us as a boomerang through the decline in investment and growth of unemployment in Serbia. At this moment, for the Serbian economy, the government is announcing with this budget new measures that are once again focused solely on public finances, not asking a basic question – is it possible to stabilise public finances without developing the economy at all? We don't think it's possible. Can these proposed measures get us out of the crisis? Will reducing wages and pensions increase spending? Will the VAT increase increase traffic? Will the reduction of subsidies increase employment? Will mass layoffs of workers you plan on in the industrial sector lead to an increase in economic activity? Will the reduction of subsidies for agriculture lead to the growth of food production? I'd like you to answer that. Finally, has any country, anywhere, exclusively by austerity measures, come to an economic growth? Give me an example. Experience shows us that it isn't, but today the government is entering a political trap again. Let's stabilize public finances first by tightening the belt, so when we strengthen, we'll invest in the economy. That's your logic. We will not strengthen without a strong economy, and the economy will certainly not recover from itself. From your government we are told – if we do nothing, in a year and a half we will meet in front of the Argentine script. It's a repeated thesis, I think, of you personally. If we just implement the proposed measures that you've taken through this budget, we'll get to the Argentine script in six months. So if you continue as you suggested, your evil words will be true. The Democratic Party has been explaining for a year that results cannot be achieved, if done this way and only through an increase in the burden, but must simultaneously reduce the burden, in order for the economy to be more competitive and have the capacity to increase income and employment. Serbia needs systemic measures: investment in agriculture by the state, with food industry, energy, education, as I have already said, support for 200,000 businesses working in Serbia and entrepreneurs, through the abolition of income tax for all new employees, loans with a 1% interest rate and a grace period for investment and employment, subsidisation of transport for exporters to the European and Russian markets, the development of regional economic centres and the obligation to finance new borrowing exclusively investments, as it was done in the city of Belgrade. That's what we're looking for, and we're suggesting, that someone here doesn't say, that we don't have suggestions. Otherwise, budget revenues for 11 months are only 83% of the total planned revenues, ministers, at the annual level. It is clear that it will fail for at least 70 billion dinars, as we normally warned you when you adopted the rebalancing. In doing so, total budget expenditures are higher than last year, which is best talked about the government's wasteful behaviour. To remind you, the leaders of the Serbian Progressive Party's biggest headquarters are during the presentation of their economic programme and plan, you have no bearing on it, you were then in the United States, in April 2012, I quote: "The sum of the short-term measures proposed by the SNS, already in the first year of power, if the party forms power, then, yes, the consolidation of public finances, the balance of the budget, which will save at least two billion euros." The Serbian Progressive Party says through the mouth of Mr. Vukic and Mr. Nikolic. What about these ministers, as well as the other promises of the ruling party, in which wind did you spread them along with the Serbian economy and the budget? Today, instead of an announced savings of 2.5 billion euros, our budget has a hole of two billion euros. It is the result of the work of this government and the Serbian Progressive Party. Promised two billion, it became two billion holes, holes in the Serbian budget. Well done. Because of intricacies and incompetence, everything stands in Serbia, ministers. The activity in the construction sector is lower by as much as 43%. The finance minister said Serbia currently has 3.5 billion euros agreed and unrealised loans, you said, mostly in infrastructure. So it's not a problem in money, Minister. The problem is that the sector is run by Minister Bacevic and Minister Velimir Ilic, who never managed to build and finish anything. I know you agree, too. You can't say that. If you have money, and you can't realize it, it means it's Bačević and Ilic, or it's your fault. Because of intricacies, the government is an absolute record recorder, as in two years it will be able to make a hole in the budget of nearly an additional five billion euros. It's these five billion people they're in charge of, and they didn't leave anything alive behind. Is it possible that on the 452 sides of the budget, Minister, you do not specify what a fiscal deficit will be, is that possible, in relation to the gross social product, you do not indicate anywhere, which is the basic budgetary indicator? Do we have to look for that information in the fiscal strategy? We see there that instead of 3.5% of the deficit will be 6.5 in the following year 7.1%, which is a record on the European continent. What the Fiscal Council has also noted, saves only on citizens, the state increases its expenditures, so the cash costs for goods and services are higher by 10% and subsidies by 12% and 200m euros, respectively. That's why we have a simple proposal for ministers. Just fire those you've hired over the past year and a half, so this weekend and the New Sad weekend, these as many as 200, 300 people over the night that you've hired, so some 20,000 party fighters you've put on public enterprises and you'll save more than you've put through a generous, solid tax and an increase in VAT on life supplies. You'll save more money if you send your team to the labour market and they're doing something in life than you've put them in public enterprises that don't normally know what they're gonna do with their debts, and otherwise their managements don't know what they're gonna do with these public enterprises. Otherwise, the government doesn't know what to do with these leaderships. Otherwise, the party that runs this country doesn't know what to do with the state and that's your closed circle of Serbian doom. Then the news is who told the opposition what. It's a shame and a shame where you brought Serbia. It's our simple suggestion, not to mention we didn't make a proposal. Fire those people. For SNS, suddenly profit has become the only measure of success, which translates into nearly half of the Serbian economy to be driven into bankruptcy and workers to the street. Not to mention cultural institutions, sports clubs, scientific institutes, where the situation is even harder. The Minister of Economy, often mentioned here, regrets not being present, now announces the mass sale of Serbia and the dismissal of workers in 2014, worrying about the ease of talking about the dismissal of tens of thousands of workers from its sector, and that is his, in some way, professional deformation. The Democratic Party believes that this is a completely wrong approach and that it is a priority for this army of people to be provided with an alternative existence, rather than being thrown into the streets only with severances. Instead of reducing your duties, Minister, you are in charge of an additional 6.6 billion euros. Less than one-sixth of it is intended for concrete projects, and everything else is going to be spent and refinanced. That means you'll be in charge of the citizens like this year, and you won't leave anything behind. Bad practice continues to give state guarantees to losers, such as "Srbigas" and "Zelezara", but for the first time the EPS has joined this infamous club with 100m euros for liquidity. The World Bank's most worrying loan, worth $500m, will be used excessively for severance workers, which, with the Ministry of Economy's transition fund, is worth 200m, means that the government will fire at least 60,000 people in the coming year. The expenditure on interest in 2014 will be 112 billion dinars, 22 billion more than last year and 53 billion or twice as much as when you came to power in 2012. It's a direct effect of your enormous borrowing in the previous year and so on. The repayment of old debts. Otherwise, in the banking sector, which is our favorite topic, as you ignore our proposal to limit bank interest laws, we have a paradoxical situation for businesses and citizens to choke in financial problems, and the banking sector is doing better and better, so the operating profit of banks in the first six months of 2013 is 750m euros, dear citizens, and the net profit is 150m euros. You know that we have submitted this bill and it would be our turn to have someone answer that proposal or to tell us that you are not interested and that you want to support banks in this country, against citizens who are going to go bankrupt next to the state and business. You continue to punish citizens at local level, even though they have transferred power to most municipalities. So, they're well-transmiting power, and you're punishing them again. You can't explain to people how to behave. I know there's been a lot of neurality with you these last few days. At least respect the people who tried to throw out the ones who got the most to scrape some kind of power, and you take away their money. So you cut local self-government revenues by 300m euros. The budget reduces transfers by an additional 30 million, and the ministry's budget for local self-government has been halved. Not that I feel sorry for Minister Mirovic, but I am sorry for the citizens. The people of Vojvodina are further punished by the practical abolition of the capital investment transfer, guaranteed by the Serbian Constitution. So the Constitution doesn't matter to you. With the proposed budget, the government is implementing a third tax reform in just a year. Reform is not a reduction in the salary of professors and doctors or an increase in VAT on basic provisions of life. In our people, you know that, Minister Krstic, it's called a harbinger. It is a Turkish word that, unfortunately, can be applied in the present, unfortunately, to the citizens of Serbia, and that word is well known to you. Today's, otherwise false, Euro-reformists have not voted for any European law in their time. They have advocated, and today they are also pushing for pure demagogy, false accusations, making Serbia gobberier, starving on the Styrofoam, fake sacks with fake ballots and other shortcuts that somehow kidnapped power in this country. But it's not right for so long that someone has been insulting the intelligence and honesty of our citizens. You can lie to citizens for a while, but you can't lie to all the citizens all the time. At that time, that balloon of yours will burst, to our great pleasure. We think, in the end, it's obvious that the government doesn't have the capacity to implement the necessary reforms, because there are no people who can carry them out and have no political will, as you often use it. What is certain, this budget has no attempt to reform any segment of our society, no progress in education, health care, media, pension system or security system. The state spends more and more money, and citizens don't see any benefit from it all. Therefore, another failure, another deadlock over Serbia's citizens' backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29352	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29353	If we weren't talking about my country, it would be really funny for me to listen to you. But since we are unfortunately talking about Serbia, it is depressing for me to listen this way. It's an economy in wonderland. That's what you were talking about, and about Louis Carroll, you know enough, so you'll understand what I mean. I can't answer in one coherent way in all of this. It's a little disturbing. But I can taxfully go through the lies you've made. Average salary and pensions to be reduced in euro, so what's the bill? Average salary and pensions have a nominal growth. The course is stable, how long since when? What are we talking about? What's that bill? You say - 20% to 25% are reduced salaries to doctors, teachers. First of all, teachers don't shrink. Salaries decrease 20% above the amount of 60,000 dinars. This means that someone who has 70,000 dinars reduces 2,000 dinars, and 2,000 dinars of 70,000 dinars is what? Wires aren't built. You'll do it with the Minister of Industry. Also, it's, I think, thrown out. Next, it saves on citizens only. That's not true either. Why isn't it true? It is not true because we are talking about a drastic interruption in the subsidisation of public enterprises and enterprises in restructuring. It's the biggest structural problem we have. If we are solving this problem, it is a problem that requires us to take the measures that we have taken on the side of the population, i.e. citizens, and we are addressing this problem. We address the problem of public spending by wanting to reform the public sector, starting with what I've been saying, public enterprises and everything else, but also through all the other branches. Moratorium for public spending with a budget of two-thirds of the cost of wages and pensions. You're proposing bankruptcy to translate. Not to be in debt, since we're where we are, it means we don't have to pay our salaries and pensions. I don't know if you're really suggesting it or trying to pass it on as something that sounds good or that sounds bad, I guess? The 5% to 6% growth we deserve. I'll just read some financial data from 2008 to 2012. So, real GDP growth in 2008 is 3.8%, 2009 minus 3.5%, 2010 is 1.0%, 2011 is 1.6%, 2012 minus 2.0%. 2.0% for this year. Furthermore, the number of employees in thousands: 2008 – 1.999, that is 1,999.000 people, 2009 – 1,889 thousand, 2010 – 1,796, 2011 – 1,746, 2012 – 1,725. Inflation; 2008 – 8.6%, 2009 – 6.6%, 2010 – 10.6%, 2011 – 7.0%, 2012 – 13.8%. In 2013, as you know, there is 2.2% in October. Current account, I don't have all the data, I'm not going to read it, but that's what's called a double deficit. So, let's not talk about 5.6%. We didn't have that. In order to have 5.6%, we need a healthy economic environment. A healthy business environment is achieved by having macro-fiscal stability, meaning a responsible budget that is achieved by structural reforms, by having an environment in which the labour law, the Law on Planning and Construction can be respected, by having fair competition that will be able to export to markets, both in the West and in the East, and this is achieved by resolving the issue of public enterprises and enterprises in restructuring. That's what we do. Who's saving up the growth? Well, no one. We won't achieve growth by saving, but so we can spend as a state, i.e. In order to be able to invest in the right way, we need to get in line. We are the option, the choice you're talking about, which is a legitimate choice in economic theory, we had in 2008, 2009, 2010. We don't have it the moment we're in charge, or the level of public debt as a share in GDP of over 60% right now. We don't have that choice anymore. We need to consolidate now. First we have to get our house in order so we can move forward, unfortunately. Three and a half billion euros, so these loans stand for five or six years each. I think in this government the previous finance minister was actually the first, but correct me, Branko, if I'm wrong, who actually came out with such information publicly. Until then, it wasn't taken care of. A criterion has been introduced that those who have not withdrawn more than 70% can no longer take new loans, and we have now made it even stronger by actually moving, which was spoken of by the prime minister, and prioritizing borrowings, which in the previous coalition government did not work. This bill is embarrassing, this with 60,000 people. The World Bank gives a loan that is direct budget assistance, conditioned by structural reforms. Structural reforms include the adoption of laws, the setting up of supervisory committees in public enterprises and a series of other things that are good and positive. It goes directly to the budget. It's spent on wages and pensions. Every two of those 500 million dollars coming in is spent on salaries and pensions, and according to this adoption budget. They don't go for layoffs. In particular, they don't go beyond what's already in the budget. I'm sorry if I didn't respond in a coherent way, but we just went through a whole series of things here that don't exactly stand, unfortunately, so I don't think this was particularly constructive budget criticism as such, and it's certainly not an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29354	Thank you. MP Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29355	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I assume that when Mr. Stefanovic spoke about beatings and the way he came to power, he thought of his party and how in the past year and a half wherever he lost his election, they got beat up, from Vrbasa and beyond. It may have passed in ancient Greece, in the modern Serbia we need and we want to build such things and such values I don't think they should be promoted. I don't understand what the word Major means, but a major in a major part of Serbia's citizens is a very bad memory of a period of the 1990s. I demand an apology on behalf of these citizens and on behalf of all those who do not like such a dictionary and think that the National Assembly is inappropriate for such an insult. The selective application of economic measures that are respected by the SNS as the most dominant party in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, does this, Mr Stefanovic, mean that it selectively bothers you that you are taxed and reduced salaries of over 60 and 100 thousand dinars? Was it supposed to cut it all down? Does that mean non-selective application of measures? Go out and tell the maids, the cooks, the nurses, all those people who might have a mental phone book in Serbia to make 60,000 dinars, that they needed to be taxed and paid, that those salaries of your tenants, your 740,000 people you hired in the state sector could receive over a hundred and a change of thousands of dinars? Maybe it's a non-selective application? We've been told to plan to fire the men we respect. There's a big difference between that colorful glass ball of yours that you're looking at firing workers, and even with severances, as you said, that we've prepared them. There is a big difference between that and in the blackest scenario and what you did between 2008 and 2012, when you, not asking them how and what they will get on the containers, fired 400,000 people in Serbia, planically and systematically.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29356	Thank you. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29357	Minister, you can't answer the incoherent budget coherently. I can't help you with that. Simply, this budget has not been brought into the interest of Serbian citizens and you cannot help them with this budget. I know you might have thought. Otherwise, every budget during the previous government and every economic policy was done with the approval and support and with the co-operation of the IMF and you know it. I'm surprised you just said in fact that the course in Serbia will be fixed for the next three years. Did you say that, Minister, and that it will be stable to the extent that all of what we have told you, and what we have absolutely in a relevant way, through the data that are verifiable, proved that you have damaged people by more than 20%? Why is the course of the dinar announced and why is the fall announced, and why is everything that's been going on lately that none of you can explain? It doesn't occur to me to answer to these helpers of yours. I want to discuss with you because we're trying to figure out, because 10% of the difference between inflation growth, plus VAT, plus the 2% reduction you've introduced. How much is that, Minister? Why don't you pick it up, 'cause you know it better? What in this budget is in the development sense? Since there's no layoffs when your ministers said that, publicly on television. It's like when there's a means to it. It's like when there's a position in the budget. So we're making it up, like we're making up our own people, and we're beating up Verbas ourselves. They should be ashamed of what they said. It's a shame. Otherwise you don't give up. You know what your problem is? You're not giving up the policy you've had so far. That's the problem. You don't have any discontinuity. No matter what you have 100 days of reconstructed government. This is your gift for a new reconstruction for the citizens of Serbia. All projects that have been done so far that have been lost continue. All subsidies continue. Fifty thousand newly unemployed. Five billion in debt, another 5.5 you'll be in charge. That's 11 billion euros, Minister. Do you know how to calculate that? You shouldn't use such expressions when you talk to MPs and you should listen to the arguments we're talking about, and then we'll be able to consistently look back at the real ones.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29358	We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29359	Thank you to the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, if we are to be honest, then the concreteisation of this truth is seen in the next. We're not the only states in the world that have a major budget deficit. We are not even the country with the biggest budget deficit, not in Europe, not in the world. That's not the problem at all. Let's say the United States has a budget deficit, and their deficit is about 700 billion dollars, so about 550 billion euros, of course I'm talking about the federal budget. Then what's the problem? The problem is very simple, because the bottom line of the problem is that our country has had no perspective on who and how it will finance this deficit for years back. We simply don't have anyone, so we don't have anyone to take the capital from by tax that we would transfer to the budget. We don't have that, because our economy, as we know, has been collapsed for many years. We know the culprits for such a collapse, and business and finance. And citizens know it very well. On the other hand, when I mentioned the United States, let's say in the United States, there are a number of economic operators and a number of capital owners in such a way that they can take over part of the income, or profits and transfer it by tax to the budget. When the state has something to take away from someone, then actually the controversy about the draft budget is one healthy controversy, is one real controversy because then it can be discussed about the correctness of economic policy, the path some country should go or maybe should have gone, especially in terms of the area in which the state wants to invest or does not want to invest. On the contrary, because of the economic situation in which we are located, and we are for all of the well-known reasons, we can't even have a proper debate on the redistribution of state money, because our redistributions in the budget are definitely being extorted. If we're going to tell the truth at will, we don't have much to redistribute. So we have to ask ourselves how we came into this situation that we are in today, and in this context we have to look back on some previous years, because this problem does not date from today, so it dates back to some previous years. We were in debt first, so then we're proposed to be in debt today, and imagine that aggressively. Well, yeah, that's the proportion. In the same way, we've been in debt aggressively, so we've got to be aggressive in our debt. Now we need to see what these and in what amounts were budget deficits in some previous years. The 2008 budget deficit was around 15 billion dinars. So 15 billion in 2008. A year later, the 2009 budget envisioned a deficit of 49 billion. So within a year, the state has increased its budget deficit by almost three times, and then the change of budget, so with this great rebalance for that same brilliant year, was found minus 70 billion. Once again in 2009, the budget rebalance was rebalanced, now minus 104 billion dinars. That's not all. Of course, there's only one question here logically. So, how is it possible that any organisation, so let's do this and let's not know about the Association of Beekeepers in the Republic of Serbia during one calendar year, and I'm talking about 2009 in this case, has missed so much in the budget deficit estimates for the entire 55 billion dinars. Next 2010, the situation is even worse. The state budget envisioned a 10% deficit of 107 billion dinars. The budget rebalance that same year increased the fiscal deficit by 120 billion, so the deficit was transferred to the 2011 budget to increase it by 140 billion during the same year. Of course, this great finale in the games of all previous governments with state budgets took place in 2012, and that year the projected fiscal deficit in the budget was 124 billion dinars to achieve the incredible 203 billion dinars of deficits by rebalance that same year 2012. So, then there's only one question that can be asked justifiably, and that's what's not normal in the country of Serbia at all, or what's wrong with the country whose citizens we are, when regular failures estimate in previous incomes, so expenditures in just one calendar year reach 79 billion dinars? Or, how is it possible to go through, for example, In 2012, around 700m euros were missed in planning. To me, personally, to be in this place and to say it myself, it seems that in the previous years nothing was actually planned, so today the situation is as it is, and the proof of that is just mentioned in previous budgets, as well as those figures that I was talking about. One question can be asked in this place. Imagine how the director of a giant like that would go. Mercedes if its estimate of the income-cost difference in one calendar year would be around 700m euros. This information that I have presented, which later this Parliament, by voting of course and by adopting such budgets from previous years, has confirmed and transformed into facts implemented in our system. In DHSS, we are only talking about one ongoing problem, of course I will end up here, which is that absolutely Minister Krstic is right when he says that this was an extorted budget and unlike some members of the opposition, we will not threaten him with a finger, nor will we tell him any shame, because we understand the consequences in which he is, and it is because of everything that has been done all the previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29360	MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29361	Unfortunately, the 2014 Budget puts more social than the development component. In a situation like this, they remain without a realistic basis for a more balanced regional development, which means that this proposal continues with the dramatic lagging of the most undeveloped areas. The municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja as the most underdeveloped municipalities were covered by the 2001 government programme, in which the main objective was the economic revitalisation of this area, along with the integration of Albanians into state structures. However, apart from the realization of important infrastructure and municipal projects, mainly during Djindjic's government, the very difficult economic situation has failed to improve. The unemployment rate instead of the reduction has increased above the record 70%, and the Presevo municipality is the most undeveloped municipality with seven times the registered national income per capita of the corresponding national average. In a situation where funds for the Presevo municipality co-ordination body, Bujanovac, Medvedja are reduced by just over nine million dinars, and the non-purpose transfers to Presevo municipality are shrinking by 21 million, Bujanovac by 28 million, and Medvedji by two and a half million, with already 30% of funding from the National Council of Albanians this year, are very clear that this proposal also plans for an even greater lagging of these and other extremely undeveloped municipalities. The government's 2001 programme will remain unfulfilled in its most significant content, which means that the government's soundly announced talks with Albanian representatives on solving the vital problems of the Presevo Valley, following the abolition of courts and public prosecutors and on other very important topics, will turn into a classic political farce. In the conditions of reducing the funding of institutions in the Presevo Valley, under the conditions of ban on restricting the number of employees in state and public institutions, a question arises which is the purpose of planning talks on resolving the catastrophic economic situation in this area, or discussions on resolving the problem of the drastic absence of Albanians in state bodies and institutions. In fact, if there were political will, these very sensitive problems should have been resolved long ago and the current government should not have had the current government during this year to discriminatoryly manipulate the number of Albanians in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja and to plan and calculate life costs and activities based on nearly a hundred-fold reduction in the number of Albanians in Presevo and Bujanovac. The question arises whether there was war, was there ethical cleansing, that the number of members of a national minority was so drastically reduced? Another component of the EU pre-accession instruments – cross-border co-operation. It's not planned for Kosovo, we know the problem. But I ask the question – why doesn't the co-operation with Macedonia be foreseen in parallel for several years? In 1992, citizens of these municipalities, since setting the border with Macedonia, have had enormous damage both in the freedom of movement and in the economic plan. And now that it's possible to... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... benefit from EU assistance, cross-border co-operation, as you can see, and this budget does not provide for this facilitating possibility for those people in the area to improve their living conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29362	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29363	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Glamocic, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in my presentation, I would like to talk about the part of the budget relating to agriculture. At the beginning of the current year, we adopted the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians voted in favour of the law, not only because then the Minister of Agriculture, Mr Goran Knezevic, accepted our amendments, but also because, under this law, every agricultural producer has the right to subsidies. The law stipulates that at least 5% of the budget must be allocated to agriculture. Unfortunately, the 2013 Budget Law does not respect this provision, and as I see it, it will also be in 2014. When we count 5% of the agricultural budget, then unfortunately, it is not the total budget, but the revenue side of the budget that is significantly less than the total. I don't think this is right. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know that most of the European budget is going to subsidize agriculture. Two-thirds of the EU's 2014 budget is defined for subsidies for agriculture and for the strengthening of poor regions through investment projects, and unfortunately we do not increase the budget for agriculture or encourage farmers. We MPs from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians believe that the state of Serbia needs as much resources as possible to single out for agriculture. I think every penny we invest in agriculture will double back. The aim of the adoption of the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development was to ensure that agrarian policy was predictable and secure in order to improve and increase the competitiveness of domestic agricultural production. In order for the law to be even better, more efficient, I am convinced that more funds need to be allocated to agrarian and payment terms of subsidies to be aligned with agrotechnical deadlines. Unfortunately, I don't see these measures in the 2014 budget. We must not forget that we must not spare on anyone who brings us income. Mr. Minister, I'm sure you know that the very poor dynamic of the payment of subsidies provided for by the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. News of payments in the last few days of 1.15 billion dinars in relation to established commitments to farmers who are greater than this amount remains a major problem for agricultural producers. Such a dynamic payment in the remaining few days of 2013 will not arrive for the next spring set either. For this reason, I appeal to you, Mr Glamočić, to speed up the payment of leftover subsidies in cooperation with Mr Krstic and thus reduce the burden of the agrarian budget for 2014. Registered agricultural holdings in the following year will be left to an unregulated market, without significant support from the state. Mr. Minister, you can't leave them alone. How does the State plan to protect agricultural producers? Our agricultural producers aren't ready for the competition that's waiting for them. If the state really wants to help small agricultural holdings and really wants farmers not to become social cases, then it has to lead another policy towards them, it needs to give them significantly greater subsidies. With a budget like this, unfortunately, I don't see any new development policy towards agriculture. State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications Dragovan Milicevic said the agrarian budget is small compared to the needs of domestic agricultural production and is defined according to the current possibilities of the republic's budget for next year. He also stated that we are not a wealthy country so that we can significantly stimulate agricultural production. I ask you, Mr. Minister, which branches do the full budget to the greatest extent? I'm sure agriculture is among the first. I'm sure every penny given for agriculture can double. With a budget like this, I don't see any further possibility of agricultural production. Unfortunately, instead of increasing incentives, the state continues to burden agricultural producers. I'm asking you, Mr. Glamocic, is it true that every farmer from next year will have his accountant? It's another burden on agricultural land. What will those smallest agricultural producers, Mr. Minister, do, those who have nothing to pay for neither PIO nor health insurance? Under the new Income Tax Act, farmers have to keep business books. The monthly cost of hiring an accounting agency additionally burdens farmers from 50 to 100 euros. The penalties for not keeping books are between 50,000 dinars and 500,000 dinars. Mr. Minister, believe me, this is not a solution for all agricultural producers. Those smallest ones will be in trouble again. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that in the north of Vojvodina, agricultural land is taken away because of debts to PIO and to health insurance? Some producers owe more than a million dinars. Two weeks ago, I asked a parliamentary question about this to Mr Krstic, but I didn't get the answer. The tax administration is taking away the land from which the families live. Is that normal, Mr. Minister? How are these farmers going to hire even accountants? From what, Mr. Minister? Simply, small agricultural holdings have nothing to allocate funds from. Is the government's goal of taking as much agricultural land away from the peasants as possible? I'm sure he didn't. (President: Time. Just one more sentence. Unfortunately, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians in the 2014 budget does not see any progress compared to the previous year in agriculture and for that reason, as well as some other things, we SVM MPs are unable to support the 2014 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29364	Thank you. Minister Glamocic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29365	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, it is my pleasure to have the opportunity today to discuss the subject of the agricultural budget. Of course, someone like that who comes from the department, that I'd be overjoyed if that budget were, if possible, bigger. We're always here on the same side, but we need to be realistic and keep an eye on the situation we've been in, because if we took for agriculture, then we'd have to take someone else's. Now of course, everyone's fighting for their share. I can't say I'm too happy with this year's budget, but I can say I'm happy with this part, because I think that's what's real right now. We talked, and that was a common position, I'll tell you, as far as agriculture is concerned, you said that the law is not respected, depending on how it is observed, but as Minister Krstic said, when taken it is 5.65% and 5.66% of the budget respectively, the legal clause is respected. What we also need to know is that most of the total subsidies are somewhere, slightly stronger than 43% of the total subsidies of the Republic of Serbia went to the Ministry of Agriculture. Of course you'd be pleased if it was even more, but that's what it was. What we've been taking care of is if we compare ourselves to 2013, the budget is 1.6% higher than the previous budget. Where did the change take place? There has been a change only in subsidies that have been slightly reduced, but that part is focused on capital investments, which have been increased this year. You know, if we go towards the EU, that this is exactly the part we should increase further, to invest in new potentials, it will be irrigation, new plastics, new farms. It's something we should think about and direct to that part. We increased some of the specialized services that was on the continent, there were words here, about food safety, and analysis, almost 300 million dinars was directed more in that part. Only 7% were allocated for these current funding. So, we've been acting restrictively, we've cut all our expenses where we can. I can tell you after a month that in some administrations, we've reduced costs double, travel costs, etc. We must keep in mind the moment in which we are as a state, as a society, which is very difficult, and within what is realistic, to try to find the best possible. Your question was about payment of subsidies. I can tell you from the moment I came to the ministry, when I personally got a little scared, because much of it, especially the subsidies to cattlemen, were not paid at all. At this point already, not to be paid at all, means from today to the end of the year, we are already much better than the situation was at the end of last year. But what I talked to Minister Krstic about, and I thank him for that, for respecting the dynamics we agreed, which was not easy to respect on our part, since there was a stalemate in that part. If we continue with the December quota as agreed, we will transfer only 300 million dinars of unpaid subsidies for next year. If you look at the previous years, when it was moving to a few billion dinars, you can say that it's an extraordinary success in that part, and you see it for yourself. You may have read the last member where there was a billion, but before that he was a member where we paid 10 billion. The warlords have been paid full subsidies. Most of the cattlemen have already received subsidies. We have something stronger than two billion to realize this month, so only 300 million will be transferred to this moment, given the situation that we are in, I as Resolute Minister, satisfied, still expect only from Minister Krstic, and I hope that by the end of the year the budget will be such that we will succeed and this part that we have agreed to honor. Of course, you mentioned the difficulties that come to us in the next period. You know the day ourselves, unfortunately, it happened to us, that we signed an agreement, we signed the removal of certain customs duties, it was done as it was done, we didn't plan well, we didn't have a date, we didn't have someone's wishes and plans, compared to when we were going to join the EU, and with our plans and it happened to us that we didn't even get funds from pre-accession funds, we're going to take our customs off, and our agriculture remains unprotected. Of course, we're not gonna sit on our hands. We'll use some mechanisms as a ministry. These are similar mechanisms as when we talked about land. We come to a change in the SAA agreement, and you know for a fact that it is a very low probability that we can make, but there are some other options that we will certainly use as a ministry. There are some protective clauses, some protective modes that we can get into that part, and we're going to run that same thing, as far as the land is concerned, which we've already talked about, and also as far as the customs story is concerned. As far as bookkeeping is concerned, that's not true. So, farmers, our individual agricultural producers won't have to run accounting. We witnessed writing and the media, etc., here is the finance minister, we contacted them in the service. So we got that answer. So there will be no obligation. There were a lot of questions, so if I accidentally forget something, feel free to remind me, I'm not running away from the answer, but I might have skipped a question by accident. Of course, we have a lot of transfers and obligations and debts from earlier. I'm just going to tell you that we have a loan where some peasants come into an awkward property situation, etc. We need to make sure that we all have to take care of what we have committed to honoring all obligations. I'll say we have outstanding loans from 2005. You know, we don't have the right to forgive anyone if it was a debt. Everyone has to keep an eye on when they're in charge. Of course we know that agriculture is in a difficult situation, and we're keeping an eye on it, but believe me, we don't have the right as a ministry and I as a minister to forgive anyone if there's a debt, if someone comes in and breaks certain rules, or laws. I'm just checking to see if there's any other parts we've skipped. I think those were the answers to all your questions. If there's anyone else, I'm here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29366	Mr. Fremond, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29367	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, thank you for your answers. We SVM MPs advocate to increase the budget if it comes to agriculture and you can be sure that you will have partners in the SVM parliamentary group on the issue. I'm extremely glad that agricultural producers won't have to hire accountants. We've read a lot about this in the media. What I've asked, and what question you haven't answered, is whether you know, Mr. Minister, in the north of Vojvodina, you're taking agricultural land from peasants because of your pensions and disability insurance and health insurance. Tax administration and trust under the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act requires each member of the agricultural land to pay both PIO and health insurance. This amounts to about 90,000 dinars per year for a member of the agricultural land. The problem is that those who have 100 hectares of agricultural land pay the same amount as those who have five or six acres of land, so two or three hectares of agricultural land. For example, the five-member family from Bačka Petrovo village handles seven hectares of the country under the leadership and vegetables and tax administrations, a subsidiary of the tax administration in Vienna took agricultural land from them because they did not pay, have more than a million and 400,000 dinars. I asked you, Mr. Minister, if you've heard of it. Of course, the question for Mr. Krstic – I appeal to all of you not to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29368	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29369	Now I've heard from you about this question and of course I'll answer you. At this point, I'm not prepared to answer you correctly, send a specific question, a specific case, and we'll answer you exactly what this is about. We're absolutely willing to do everything we can to make sure that doesn't happen. You mentioned, I only remained in line with the EU budget. Of course, from the EU's common budget, they single out the largest part of the development of agriculture, which is why we are moving towards the EU, to have access to these funds. Unfortunately, we've lost a lot of time, and if we were on time, we'd already have funds in front of the access fund available to our farmers who aren't small funds. Since we left late, if we leave now, we'll only have access to 2016. It's just, it's got to be done. Money from the EU is not easy to win. They do, but they have to be followed procedures that aren't often or easy, but if we decide to go that way, we have to take it seriously, move it, and we can have those resources, too. To rely only on our national budget, it's not realistic, because agriculture, if it takes for itself, will take someone else. Imagine if we took 2/3 of the Republic of Serbia's agriculture budget, what other ministries would do. Therefore, if we compare ourselves with other countries, our budget is neither large nor small. I think when we ask ourselves much better, domestically, that we can have much greater results and I have experienced this question very constructively and I know that every time you cooperated on this subject and I expect it to continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29370	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29371	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SDPS priority as well as most of the parties represented in parliament is new employment. We cannot fully be satisfied with the restrictive budget that we have in our discussion today, and we believe that it could have been much better to work on a parallel aspect of solving the problem of new employment and defined development projects. Of course, when I talk about employment, I'm talking about one big percentage of employment in the private sector, by creating a quality environment for the development of the private sector, but of course through those projects that the state should be doing, which it has not done so far, it has the money to do, which it will also be able to do in the future. So it applies exclusively to construction and infrastructure facilities. The basis of any reform, and we believe that the reform could be and more comprehensive is tax discipline, tax consolidation, and in that sense a disastrous result of 73% of the value added tax is a big enough alarm that you have to do your best and put into order taxpayers. I will give you an example of Macedonia where the tax rate is therefore VAT 95%, that I had communication with my colleagues from Croatia yesterday, they even introduced one model when paying the bill in any store or for any thing, goods or service, that transaction goes to the central server in Zagreb and when it is approved returns. So it takes a little longer, but that's how they work, all in order for tax discipline to be as good and quality as possible. I'm going to give a critical look at this budget, it's about potential reforms, which I've already talked about in previous public sector debates. It's a great thing to define the central register of 770,000 employees. The introduction of payment classes and order into the public sector. I think it's epochal for one reason. When we talked about this law, there were a lot of calls, everyone got mixed up, everyone got alarmed, and that's good because we made it fast, and that's one reform move, that's reform measures, and I think it's going to bring real results to the state of the public sector. What the SDPS is going to propose and suggest is that, perhaps, in this domain, it should have been thought that instead of increasing the bottom base of VAT from 8% to 10%, we could introduce the city's rent, tax the rents, that in this way, by analysis of the economic institute, the relevant economists and politicians in our country, we could in the first half of 2014, in which we would have included 200m euros, and in the third to billion euros, and so the burden of this crisis, fiscal consolidation would have been passed on to those who live on to luxuries such as renting, unsullied their assets and their assets and renting property, completely without the aspect and without the motivation to invest in any business activity, not to talk about production. Of course, those who have restaurants, apartments or business spaces where they work in business, where they live, would not be taxed. We'll also propose a land fund law. I will remind you that in Belgrade alone, according to the latest analyses, there are 50 billion euros in value of city building land and I will remind you that the funds could be allocated and an international management competition could be called, that the city of Belgrade, the city of services, would be built on the Sava, that four million squares could be made and that in one quality way with a land fund that would have professional management, which would be corporateized, we would issue the space and from which Belgrade and Serbian citizens would benefit greatly. The project, believe it or not, would have been paid within five years, because when such capital investments were asked by issue alone, it was one huge shift and it was a state with professional management and the corporate process, it could definitely have done so. When it comes to public enterprise reform, I will remind you of the case of "Telecoma Serbia", which 500m euros in the past 14 years has only given to renting space, we need to be clear, whether we are able to manage the public sector effectively, efficiently and productively or to discuss, change the law, international tender and give the assets and resources we have, so that we can make profits and profits based on the resources we have. Of course, we support the development of the private sector and private enterprises, we support the Vencher Fund, and we believe that it could have started with a billion dinar figure, and four billion are foreseen here, and I think it's great for the launch of new initiatives, start-ups, businesses and defining such a business process in that area, in the private sector of our country. Our overall economic policy, financial policy should be based on the process of social dialogue, dialogue between employers, trade unions and the state. In Voting Day, the SDPS will support the draft budget, although there is a lot of inadequacy and I hope that in the next period you will correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29372	The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29373	The President-in-Office, gentlemen of the Ministers, when I open this big book called the 2014 Budget Act, the first thing that falls into the eyes, it is that both revenues and expenditures have been greatly increased compared to this year. The expenditures are up by 6%, and the revenues are 6.5%, and I think the expenditures are realistic and they're going to be that big, but I'm not sure the revenues are realistic, because the revenues planned for next year are around 930 billion, which is an increase of 873 billion for this year. Today, Mr. Finance spoke about it with a lot of optimism and said it would certainly be achieved, and this optimism is based on a few facts. First, it is based on a value added tax that increases from 8% to 10% will affect revenue increases. The second thing he said was that the grey economy would be reduced and that it would affect the increase in income. The third thing, on a slight rise in GDP, which I think will not go so smoothly. What I think is going to happen is that the VAT increase is just going to reverse and the income is going to decrease. In addition, I quote the fact that we talked about it when there was an increase in value added tax from 18% to 20%. We said it wouldn't give an effective result, and that happened. Compared to the planned, VAT is lower by 800 million. I also think it's going to happen with this part. What I want to talk about is a gray economy. The grey economy, which is now on a significant rise, and many have talked about it here, and the minister says it will be reduced and measures taken to restructure the tax administration. I say hello, I need the tax administration to change, to make it work better. I don't think that's controversial. It is disputed that she does not have the capacity, Mr. Minister, and in support of this she speaks also a statement made a few days ago by the director of the tax administration who said that at this point the tax administration has 600 inspectors who can work on the ground, who can exercise effective control, and the real need for Simic, not for us, is 1600. It's a huge disproportion, and when we know that a few days ago we passed a law that we can't, we can't hire new people in the IRS, we come up with an insecure problem. I know that from the IRS, this 600 number can grow to 1,000, but not over it. What about the negative of 600 inspectors? My impression is, and you confirmed it to me, Mr. Minister, when we had a separate meeting, that we kind of legalized the gray economy. Today, via the Internet you can buy any illegal goods, without any problems, people leave their name, their last name, leave their phone number, leave an e-mail that you can contact to buy goods and it lasts a few years. I'm asking you, what are we going to do about it? There lies our big problem, as well as the problem that a bunch of goods can be bought on flea markets, but that's the problem that I hope you'll be able to solve and we're really here to give you full support, but it seems to me that the methods and ways you've chosen are wrong. I want to say something about transfers that are reduced by local self-government, and I think that's a disastrous solution. Local self-government has been in major problems in Serbia so far. You have cities and municipalities where children can't go to a normal bathroom, but they're still going to the Polish toilet. By reducing the transfer, you have also compromised the little investment that these municipalities could invest at some point. So, the big problem is, I think it's the wrong decision, we've made the amendment. I hope you accept and return to local self-governments at least what they had, because they couldn't go forward with it, and without that, many municipalities, believe me, ministers, won't be able to pay, let alone invest anything in the future. So I'm asking you to take care of it, because there are really a lot of municipalities in big trouble. There were a lot of words here today about restructure companies. I have an obligation as a man who comes from Kruševac, the Kruševac had eight enterprises in restructuring, four have already finished. Four no longer exist on Serbia's economic map, as people working in these companies have been identified as a social programme. There are four other companies left that are in big trouble. The biggest problem is "14. October," which was the backbone of Kruševec's development from 1945 to 1990. I suggest and ask you on behalf of all Kruševljanes, they expect it from you, to be a problem "14. October" solves as the flag problem has been solved. ‘14. October is now in the same position as the flag, before the "Fiat" came. Please find a strategic partner, that the state invests money, that "14. October becomes what is called the flag. Only in this way can Kruševac move forward, because without that help, without the help of the state there is no way that the factory can come to life. It's not just Kruševac, it's both Kraljno and Leskovac and Cačak and all the cities in Serbia. Without the help of the state, these cities, unfortunately, can't go forward, and if they don't go forward, Serbia won't go either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29374	The word has been made by MP Konstantin Arsenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29375	Madam Chairman, gentlemen of the Ministers, members of the Government, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, today we heard the budget's explanation by the prime minister and one and another minister. All of this clearly concludes that it is a realistic and restrictive budget which is the result of our overall economic crisis in which we are and that we must try to come out together, so that tomorrow, as they say, we may go some better way. It is certain that none of us are satisfied with this budget. Everyone has needs, but there's a question of where. I think we need to take care of borrowing, we can't go I don't know how far. That's why I think it's worth it and the PUPS will support this draft budget and in the voting day it will vote for it. But I want to talk about some of the questions here that have been mentioned, they've been told about them, that I'm closer to commenting. It is evident that many speakers have expressed great concern for pensioners. I have to say it makes me happy, but on the condition that it's a sincere concern. I must say, we have a seemingly shallow memory. In 2003 and 2004, they were fateful years for pensioners. At that time, the average pension was 42% of the average salary with a tendency to fall to 32 and 29%, respectively. That's why the PUPS game was formed. We set ourselves the goal of getting into power, of repairing this situation and returning it to some possible level, and it was drawn between 60% and 70% of the average pension from the average salary. Our coalition partners, above all, the SPS, the JS, have accepted our position. I have to admit after entering the government and they've accepted that attitude. It's done. It was returned with that extraordinary increase, etc. Therefore, in that sense, the current coalition has also accepted, which we have declared, that pensions follow wages. That's the point. The pensioners aren't looking for anything else. We know that pensioners have a hard time living, but they don't ask for special privileges. They demand that the government make a maximum increase in the employment of children, grandchildren, Serbian citizens. That way they'll get rid of it, make it better for the pensioners. I have to say, there's one saying - when a parent gives children, double joy, and when children give parents, double grief. However, in this situation where we are, the unemployment of children and grandchildren and when parents give children, unfortunately, double grief. They don't have either. I want to point out here that this is a PUPS program and we've accomplished it. We don't mind what the pensioners are in all other parties. I want to say here in public -- God forbid all pensioners vote for PUPS. What kind of parliament would be made up of pensioners? We're only fighting for strength, so we can influence the government to preserve the necessary standards of pensioners. We're looking for support here, and I thank everyone who understands and understands in that sense. But let us not forget one fact that many advocates, when talking about pensions, understand differently the concept of pensions. Many speak of retirement as a social category. We're talking about pensions as an economic category, acquired rights on economic grounds. That notion should be separated from the concept of social giving. It is the second element to help the most vulnerable citizens with small incomes and small pensions, to further help them survive, to meet some of their basic needs. This is the goal we are in the previous, though also in this budget, although we do not see the funds, but there is a statement that social contributions will not change compared to 2003, which I mean will be realised in the following year. As for the remarks that we rely on the pensioners' association, who else to rely on, but on the pensioners' association. We don't force any of the members of the pensioners' association to be members of the PUPS party. We're trying to get them through our program. Why does someone blame us? We're doing it fair and square. We don't share Euros, which Sojic, the packets, we don't meet our pensioners and we don't force them to vote for us. That's their goodwill. So, any illusion of such one of our relationships, we think that our target group is pensioners, we count on all socially endangered citizens, we count on young people, because we think they're our future, but we resent someone because we think it's our target group, I don't see it at all, it's not our sin at all, nor are we ashamed of it. One more question, I've been silent for a long time, and I have a need for you, MPs and the public, to say that PUPS MPs receive salaries and pensions. There are other pensioners here in the Assembly, MPs who are also receiving it. Now I ask her – what are we illegally receiving? Is that following us or not following us? If we're talking about morality, let's just say that maybe it's not moral. Do we even now build capitalism with the moral principles of socialism, enter the capitalist system, look for some double standards, but we don't wonder what individuals have five, six incomes on various other grounds? That doesn't bother us, but it bothers us because a pensioner has an MP's salary. I don't mind. Let's pass the law, let's end it right. It was in the previous system like that. So we know what we're on, but don't blame me for it, you don't know, each of us in some way with that salary, who knows who I'm helping and how I help. Now you give me a moral sermon, I think it's really inappropriate. That's what the papers said, they made us convicts. We kept quiet, we suffered it, but I don't see anything that I did anything wrong. Let's change, gentlemen, the law. Let's regulate that. I've been doing this job fair and square, and so far I've been doing it. If that's how we talk about morality, gentlemen, for 40 years we've been retired or 25, it depends on how who, me and everyone else, created this country honestly. Nobody got rich. Since 2000, he's been blowing a hurricane, picking up everything, waiting for a tsunami and putting everything in somebody's pockets that could have been put in place. Then where are we? Then what are we talking about, whose honesty? Someone buys a two-euro sugar shop, a three-euro cement shop, and then tomorrow gives me a moral lecture. Gentlemen, let's see where our moral principles are. Who can make an enormous fortune for a lifetime, not for 10 years, by honest work? I'm talking about honest work. When it comes to moral principles, don't think we're blind and nobody knows anything, but we're putting up with it. We got it, there's been a change of system, we're going that way. If it's better for the people tomorrow, we don't mind. I have to go back briefly to the military pensioners, although I didn't think about them today to discuss, but I was encouraged by Mr. Sutanovac, because he asked me, since I was chairing at the time, do you think that the pensioners will live tomorrow? In the law, the reasoning of the Republic Fund's financial plan, I will read it, it says -- an amount of 500 million dinars related to the forced payment of court disputes by military insurance companies in connection with the debt created by the partial harmonisation of pensions and fines for the period from 1 August 2004 to 30 November 2007. The remaining amount of debt on 30.9.2013 amounts to 1.6 billion dinars and costs related to interest, litigation costs, forced payment and court fees are estimated at around three billion. Gentlemen, who's to blame for this? The debt was 4.5 billion, and it grew to 13 billion, and it was only with the carelessness or lack of an appropriate minister who was supposed to solve it at the time. The military law has regulated the government to find a solution within three months. That was in 2008. It's 2013. We have about 45,000 pensioners who were entitled to this increase. About 12,000 have not been sued at all, and unfortunately, those who haven't sued seem to be not going to exercise that right at all. There's been a tear. The Ministry of Labour didn't accept this obligation, and we left the Department of Defense. That's where the lawsuits go from now on. Something similar happened in 2008, when pensions increased by 11.06% and military pensioners believe they have the right to do the same. When the minister said how much money they had, since they did not accept it immediately, the debt, which was about nine billion, was again accumulated, the minister said – forget it. Can you forget that? How can you forget? How can you disrespect the law? That's what someone needs to answer for. If we don't comply with the laws, this law won't do us any good, nothing will happen if we don't respect it and allow the debt that is now nine billion, the pensioners are suing again, which will come out on 30 billion dinars. What's that for? This could have been avoided, but there was no will and desire to talk. I suggested that it be translated into a public debt. It was deafening, etc. But the situation is what it is. I'm just saying -- we can't have two standards, on the one hand we're taking care of the pensioners, and on the other hand we don't carry out that obligation that was legally mandatory to do. What are we talking about? That's why I doubt the law, and with that I'm going to conclude, the good intentions of the individuals. I believe that many have good intentions, but when it comes to pensions, I doubt good intentions, rather than just EPP. Otherwise, if they were able, they'd bring pensions to a beggar stick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29376	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29377	The Honorable President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have no gastritis or at least until today I was convinced I didn't have one, but this feeling in my stomach for the last two, two and a half hours doesn't talk about good. I don't think it's because of any physical illness or deficiency, but because of a painful impression, because of the atmosphere in which this debate runs. I'll be honest. I'm not saying, maybe somehow I contributed to her myself. In those two, two, two and a half hours, I've been thinking about how we came into the situation almost looking at each other like this over the sights, that it's so bitter in our debate, that the ten billion euros we have in the budget, one part of our own, and one part of the borrowed in the next year, we look at it as some kind of prey that we're supposed to take away, with so much fear that someone else is going to take a bigger piece. New divisions and new conflicts, at least in these ten minutes, as far as I plan to speak, I won't open or at least try not to open them. Once again, I want to say that I don't think anyone has the moral, or the political right to make out of certain subjects or endangered groups or budget users in one way or another a kind of monopoly. Without any intention to resent the previous speaker, yesterday I also listened to 11% of those denied pensions, I think, in 2008. It's military pensioners. We're all citizens of this country, we're all somebody's kids, friends, neighbors. I've been listening to this, I have to say, based on the Tasby kinship and these are the problems we're facing. Unfortunately, the atmosphere in which we are discussing this budget or the budget package of the last 15 days, twenty days in public doesn't convince me that we're going to be much better. I don't see this as a generational or intergenerational issue. I think everyone who wants to cause some new kind of conflict and division is deeply wrong. This is not a war against the elderly, employees of the public sector, those who work in the private sector and a huge number of unemployed, employers and workers, the government of employers and workers, and at least it should be the war of us who are involved in politics and who, in our own way, are someone in a larger, less responsible for this situation that we are in. Mr Krstic, it seems to me that now, at the end of this first part, on the first day and formal debate on the budget, it is essentially clear that we cannot overcome this situation without a quick parliamentary election, without a fair, fair and responsible election campaign, without the passing of doctors who were here a month or a month or a half ago caused the public to be completely baffled, and even today, after all that has happened to you with their behaviour making it difficult for you to position, without any ability to understand what is going on around them, what processes are under way and how pointless these kinds of debates will be and attempts to get used to when in a few months we are faced with the fact that neither this budget, as planned for 2014, can be fulfilled. Let's go back to the retirement hearing for a moment. You have today, Mr. Krstic, used a syntagma that has almost passed without comment. She's very important. You talked about actuarial coordination or actuarial justice when you talked about the work of future plans for reforming the pension and disability system. There's something Mr. Jovanovic told you about, and I'm going to kind of expand it. I'm not sure that people who watch this and haven't moved on to television, now it's about that economic part of the journal, that they understand exactly what it means. Then tell them in Serbian. This means that the pension fund is in such a state that in the coming years or that in the coming years you will have to lower your pensions by introducing some kind of pen for those who have retired or who have not worked full-time or as full-time as required by law. If we were a demagogue or a populist opposition party, we would now try to make a big subject and some votes on this one. We're not gonna do that. We are one kind of coordination much, much lighter than the one we will be forced to do next or that year, we proposed in 2009-2010. There were also those voices in this House. At that time, there was a second coalition in power, to be completely open. The charges have come, too, that we are the enemies of the pensioners, that some want to commit genocide against the pensioners. I guess these three, four years taught us that it was better that we reached out to those measures at the time. Another important thing I want to talk to you about, Mr. Krstic, is a matter of justice and solidarity. Of course, there is not enough money in the budget and of course it is always very risky to extract certain items of the budget and on such isolated examples to prove how wrong the Government is, but on some examples in this 2014 budget proposal, it is more than obvious. I can understand all the problems you face when you're making a budget. That's what we discussed at the meeting with you and your associates. Yet in some ways you're just making a kind of general evaluation of those proposals, and especially those arguments and divisions that are further made in the budget... Do you mind, Mr. Ristichevich? Maybe I need to keep my mouth shut so you can talk? (Marian Risticevic, from the place: Who told you what?) Well, I hear you all the time, Mr. Risticevic, as you speak. You're distracting me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29378	What the hell do you want?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29379	Mr. Risticevic, don't throw it away. Mr. Djuric has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29380	He's throwing it at me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29381	I'm trying to talk to the Minister seriously.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29382	Who's listening to this patient?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29383	Mr. Risticevic, I give you a warning about your behavior. Go on, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29384	What did I tell him? I didn't tell him anything. He told me. Why did you give me a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29385	So it's not acceptable for me to have on one side, let's say, we talked about it during the 2013 budget rebalance, almost a million euros in something called the budget fund for hunting development, and that in that budget you have almost half the money for funds, for programs that need to enable the professional training of teachers in secondary schools. I can't understand this kind of unequal archaic or unequal treatment, that you have this kind of separation, let's say, through this fund or, say, through 109 million dinars that in the National Employment Service's financial plan are allocated to travel within this National Service, and that, on the other hand, through one health ministry programme, you have 900,000 dinars in the budget for the incentive, or for the development of women's reproductive health and family planning. That's less than 9,000 euros, Mr. Krstic. Not that it's not enough, it's offensive in this situation where we're in and there's still a lot of such examples in the budget. I'm not saying that anyone in the government is happy that this is the budget he proposed, but once again I will repeat what we wrote in those requests for talks, for consultations with the President of the Republic, with the Prime Minister. I think it's the last time we sit down and at least try to agree on a few basic things, not to be constantly in the campaign, not to have the Vojvodina issue reopened in one campaign way, yesterday in an even rougher way, with accusations of separatism in a country that has more than two billion euros in deficits. There are dozens of such topics. Today, the president of your government, the head of your government, said that a tenth of the budget comes from the NIS and that this is absolutely the most important, paraphrasing priority of this country. You come from a country or a system where the most powerful may be the feeling of people, I think of the United States, except for that sense of individualism and individual work, individual effort and commitment to the community, or to the country and the feeling that they are taxpayers and that, compared to how they are treated as taxpayers, depends on the attitude towards politicians and those who act in public. People don't have that feeling around here. Please warn the Prime Minister next time you talk about being very careful when he makes such statements. Of that one tenth of the budget that comes to us, 90% or more than 90% are actually VAT and excise. What is essentially economically paid by consumers, citizens and businesses, those who buy at NIS oil derivatives. When we learn to treat our citizens in this way, I think the chances of maybe agreeing on a better, more coherent budget in the future, which will be more acceptable to a lot more people, and then politicians and political parties in this country, will be easier to come up with such a kind of agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29386	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29387	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising an article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: "A session of the National Assembly is not allowed directly to address the People's MP to another MP, to use offensive expressions, or to present facts and assessments concerning the private life of other persons." Article 109 paragraph 1 point 5) - "The warning is made to a People's Messenger who directly addresses another People's Messenger." I received a warning that my previous speaker had spoken to me twice, and before that, he tried to contact my colleagues, Giric, as I understood it. While I informed myself about what this has to do with the agenda and asked Mr. Giric, MP Djuric spoke to me twice. You're all here to witness that I didn't throw anything at him. The chairman, since you did not give him a warning, given that it was an MP who had provoked not only me all day, he provoked other MPs, he also provoked the Vice-President of the National Assembly of Arsenovic, you again missed the opportunity to punish the behaviour of MP Djuric, but therefore you punished me after twice the direct address to me, and that I did not deserve anything. No problem, I'll wear this notice with honor. I understand, it was a Thunder action, and many are nervous. So I'm going to take this note as a male, without any objection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29388	According to Businessman Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29389	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. I think it's inappropriate, we've all heard the MP speak to Mr. Bojan Đurić, in what sentence and when he asked him to shut up and we all saw his behavior today. But this imputation that some of them are nervous about the Thunder action, so I guess those who had a thunderbolt in the police haven't been arrested. The ones in the Great Trnovec that you didn't visit, they're also nervous. They're waiting for you to arrest them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29390	According to the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29391	Mr. President, I'm calling for an insult to the Parliament's dignity, because the previous speaker told doctors in this room that they don't understand the problem. I don't know who the doctor was referring to, since I'm one of those, I'd really like my colleague to explain what we don't understand. Whether they were involved in the government of the former country of prosperity, or whether they were referring to something third in the profession that doctors in this congregation did not understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29392	According to the Rules of Procedure, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29393	Thank you, Mr. President. Articles 27 and 107. We think you should react much more clearly when the MPs are offended. Therefore, MPs who speak on the subject, who make certain arguments about the law that is on the agenda, who say really ugly insults. You, in fact, allow yourself to be offended by the dignity of Mr Đurić's concrete MP, and you are also insulting this House's dignity. I think it is necessary that there be far more tolerance during the debate, and these tolerances will only be in that case, if the chairman, or you, Mr. President, draw a little more attention to what kind of words are used and how they are directed to LDP MPs. I think it's very ugly what we just heard from Ambassador Marjan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29394	I have to tell you, Mrs. Popovic, I didn't understand. So, after all, I think I did it at least correctly compared to what was going on in the O.R. If you expect me to do this, and multiple times your party's MPs have warned me that we need to create an atmosphere where the debate will go in the agenda, if I have to create a battlefield here, I don't think I should. When I heard the words that I thought were offensive, I gave a warning to the MP, who belonged to my MP group, because he acted in a way that he threw away and thus disrupted the public order and the session. I hope it's all over as far as anyone who's had to report to the Rules of Procedure is concerned, I would now give my word to Mr. Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29395	Thank you, Mr. President. Gentlemen of the Ministers, representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this debate would begin with one finding. It is clear at this point that the two key and essential objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia are. One is certainly the approximation of Serbia and Serbia's entry into the EU, and that is certainly a difficult reform and implementation of what is contained in the Brussels Agreement. This aims to also normalise relations and continue dialogue with Pristina, and the second objective is equally important and equally important, economic and financial consolidation of the state. What I mean is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has made it very clear in the past time period that it wants to manage the situation and when it comes to the political objective, and when it comes to the economic objective and that it will not allow the situation to govern the government at this time, and thus manage all Serbia. When it comes to the concrete proposal that we are talking about today, when it comes to the set of economic laws we adopted a few days ago, it is clear that the Government of the Republic of Serbia wants economic, financial and budgetary parameters to be held in its hands at the moment, which is extremely important. Many times so far, we have said, I will repeat, therefore, the draft budget law, a serious, decisive, responsible approach by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a realistic examination of what the current problems are today and a solution that is in the interests of the citizens, and is not the burden of the socially most vulnerable category of the population. Mr. Minister said in his presentation and, of course, the prime minister said this in the opening statement, so the government wants to offer a systematic and comprehensive response to what the current problems are today. The draft budget law, a set of economic laws passed a few days ago, is only one part of that systemic and comprehensive response, the other part are essential and structural reforms, which will be implemented in 2014 and without which we will not be able to feel what is the ultimate goal, and these are positive effects. This draft budget law is completely understandable to us, so this is neither political nor economic declaration, it has very clearly defined objectives, the results that will be achieved in the next period of time, and it is, as we have heard so far, reality. He's a real need that, in our opinion, we all need to stand up at this point. This reality is very clear that at this point we have to save as much as possible and spend just as much as necessary. Of course, the bill is in line with a set of economic laws. I said, therefore, this budget is reality, the budget is made on real, and not on political basis, and it should actually reflect what is real and what will be possible in 2014. It is clear that one broader context is needed to look at the economic affairs of the state. The ultimate goal is to stabilise public debt by 2016, 2017 and there is no alternative. So there is absolutely no other solution. Savings during the economic crisis and it could be heard several times today during the debate, should and must be a priority, but I also want to say, save yourself where there is, and not where there is none. So it cannot be spared on Serbian citizens because the standard of living of Serbian citizens at this point is not at an envious level, or at the level we would like it to be. What is very good and what we welcome is that the Government has shown by example how responsible and responsible we all need to behave in the next period of time. Clearly, hypothetically it started from the assumption that it will not be possible in general to solve the problem of the gray economy, that it will not be possible in general to restructure businesses, that it will not be possible in general to speed up and improve tax collection and then have to go towards savings. So I'm going to repeat this is for us a real budget, a real insight into the current moment. On the one hand, it defines restrictive, rational behaviour, rational and domestic spending, and on the other hand it makes it very clear that the state's economic policy cannot be based solely on savings. So the government has been determined to implement reforms, and that is absolutely not controversial. The government has made it very clear that it wants to reduce, to reduce all those unnecessary costs, but on the other hand, you know how, it can't, the prime minister said in the opening statement today, it can't stop life right now. When I say that, first of all, the fact that in the past five or six years about 400,000 people have remained, that is, that Serbia has lost 400,000 jobs and unemployment has increased 24%. So, reforms yes, but not over the knee, but primarily responsible in the interest of the citizens. What is also clear, it is not possible to make absolutely no progress, progress in any way, any context without the economic recovery of the state. The economic recovery of the state for us implies recovery of the economy and requires a long-term strategy and a draft budget law and a set of economic laws adopted a few days ago are actually measures that lead to the creation of real foundations that will lead to the recovery of the Serbian economy. That's very important. It's important to start production. No, it seems to me like about three hundred thousand people in production to support about four million people in Serbia. What can be heard today, investment is important, projects are important, because that is the only way to ensure growth, and that is the only way to solve what today in Serbia is a burning issue, and that is the issue of unemployment. In the context of investment, there has been a debate today, and in recent days the question of SIEPA survival has been raised. We see that certain funds have been allocated in the budget, however someone defined it as symbolic, we think it is a good thing that the funds and what I want to say are allocated is that we primarily support the goal of achieving the establishment of the SIEPA, and that it should exist in some future period of time, but the accent should be evenly regional development and that every municipality, that every city in Serbia should have the same chance of developing. At the very beginning, I said that the government wants to provide a systematic and comprehensive response, that it is very clear that the government has a clear plan, a very clear and precise dynamic, that the draft budget law together with a set of economic measures is the first step, that the next step is structural and essential reforms. What I'm trying to say is that structural and essential reforms are both difficult and unpopular, and to say in a way and painful, we've had the opportunity to talk to the minister when talking to the Parliament's club about the set of economic laws and the draft budget laws, so they concern in some way a number of system laws, they concern both the pension system, and the tax system, and the state administration. What I'm trying to say is that I'm appealing, there's different opinions, there's different opinions, there's different opinions, there's different attitudes, what we insist on is what spreads the social consensus. We urge that there remain one continuity in the social dialogue between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, trade unions and entrepreneurs, or employers, and any agreement reached on any system law on this SPS relationship is fully acceptable. In recent days, the most important thing has been the draft labour law. I just want to say a few sentences. Of course, Serbia needs a draft labour law, but the draft labour law should be approached with far greater seriousness. We need the Labour Act, but not the Labour Act, which will define and characterize workers for everything bad that is currently in the system and for catastrophic privatisation in Serbia. We need the Labour Act, which on one side will motivate, or increase investment, to increase employment on the other hand, but what is most important is to protect the fundamental rights of workers at the moment. When it comes to the public sector. So, just a few sentences. It is true that there are surplus employees in the public sector. We all know that. We're not going to solve this by firing 1,000 or 1,500 workers at this point in time to make a radical cut. We need a system approach and what the SPS stands for is a fundamental reform of the public sector. When it comes to public enterprises. Of course, and here we fully agree, public enterprises must be far more efficient and have to be far cheaper. We need to solve the problems of public enterprises, the problems that are evident, which exist, but on the other hand, I will repeat what I said at the beginning, must not stop life in Serbia. We need to provide that minimum for socially responsible functioning of public enterprises. I believe about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we believe that the Government will very responsibly approach these issues in terms of public enterprise, to achieve one consensus and to say in the next time period what to do and to do with certain public enterprises. Mr. Minister, I'm going to use this debate and I'm going to give you again the suggestion we gave you during the talks we had on the draft budget law. It is said that the previous government, on a proposal from the resolution ministry, has decided to abolish a number of agencies and directorates at Serbia's level to save, in order to rationalise, or to save at the level of the state apparatus. Officially-legal some of these directorates, the agency ceases to exist from January of next 2014. I want to once again, now during the debate, to give you a suggestion and a proposal to reconsider the decision, we believe that ad hoc was made and we believe that they are not very clear and precisely defined criteria. I'd like to give you a brief concrete example, and, by example, to try to explain the suggestion and the suggestion that I'm giving you. It is specifically about the Directorate for the Reconstruction and Development of Houses and Objects that were destroyed in the territory of the Kolubar district during the devastating earthquake. So this directorate was founded with a clear goal of completing the complete restoration and rehabilitation of houses and facilities that were destroyed in the devastating earthquake that hit the Colubary County. It's been many years. Unfortunately, this job has not yet been completed, i.e. complete reconstruction and recovery has not been completed. Since January, it ceases that there is a Directorate for Reconstruction and Development. So, we are for saving. We think that saving has to be a priority, but there are things that can't be saved at this point. It's not about whether there's going to be a directorate, it's about creating in some way a legal obligation to end a complete rehabilitation of houses and facilities in the territory of the Colubary County. So, to our citizens, the citizens of the Kolubara County of Nature have taken something away and it is responsible for us to meet them. It is not just the government of the Republic of Serbia whose mandate has seen an elemental disaster. It is the obligation of each of the next governments of the Republic of Serbia until this job is done. What I want to say at the very end in a few sentences is that both the draft budget law and the set of economic laws that was passed a few days ago very clearly say that this is a difficult and unpopular one, I would say, measures and that when the government defined these proposals, it wasn't the political party rating that makes up the ruling coalition, but what it is is is reality, so what it is. The government wants to run a realistic policy. Not to the public to tell and tell fairy tales, not what the citizens would like to hear, but what is reality at this point. These are brave and economic and political moves, they lead to creation, I have already said, the real basis for healing the economy. We believe, indeed, that these are measures to save the economy, that they are in the interest of Serbia's future. We expect the widest possible support. We also expect international support and expect support from all those who advocate modern Serbia, all those who are aware of one fact that the reform processes in Serbia should not stand at the moment. At the very end, I'll agree with you in one sentence. So, in the limited space in which we are currently acting we are fully in agreement with you – the maximum has been reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-09-0.u29396	Thank you. We're breaking up for tonight. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00 p.m.
