ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10665	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. On the basis of the official record, 100 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 90 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Milos Aligrudic, Natasa Vukovic, Vesna Marjanović and Milorad Stosic. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representative of the motions of Dr Jovan Krkobic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and Milutin Mrkonjic, Minister of Transport, I have also called for the members to attend: Zoran Martinović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, Milorad Ilic, Assistant Minister of Transport, Nebojsa Starcevic, Director General of the Civil Aviation of the Republic of Serbia and Dragan Radovanovic, Head of the Department for International Co-operation, European Integration and Projects in the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. We continue to work on a joint principle and uniform search of the draft laws referred to in points 2, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20. In agreement with the Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 2, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20, and before the opening of a joint principle and uniform search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs, members of the parliamentary group, on which you have received details in the material. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle and uniform search on: - Proposal for a Law on State Belonging and Registration of a vessel; Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Confirmation of the Convention of the International Labour Organisation of Seafarers, 2006; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Restriction of Responsibilities and Protocol 1996 on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on Restriction of Liability for Maritime Requests; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on International Road Traffic and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation in the field of air traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Milutin Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10666	Thank you very much. Dear President and the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have the honour, as always, to speak a few words in this high house about these six documents. The first is the proposal for a law on state ownership and the registration of a vessel. The first and most significant reason for the adoption of the bill shall be examined in the simplification of the vessel registration procedure, the abolition of the role of the courts and the transfer of the full registration procedure to the jurisdiction of port captains and the Ministry of Transport, in accordance with the requirements of the reform, roles and tasks of the judiciary. The bill provides for conditions under which ships of inner navigation, owned by domestic shipowners, can acquire the property of a paradise vessel. The acquisition of that property automatically extends a network of waterways, on which a ship under the Serbian flag can sail. The draft law has implemented the liberalisation of the conditions for the entry of ships into domestic registers, in line with EU requirements, in relation to free registration, while conditions for optional entry are maximumly liberalised, with respect to the requirements of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, by employment, etc. the foreign connections between the ship and the state whose flag it is. Second law, the law confirming the International Maritime Labour Organisation Convention, 2006. The international organisation of work, in the further wording of the IOR, since the founding of 1919 to this day, is paying great attention to the working relations of the seamen. In addition, the fact that 70 conventions and recommendations have been adopted to date to regulate the matter of the work, life and social conditions of the seamen. The 2006 Maritime Labour Convention is a consolidation of existing rules and modernisation of standards that have been subject to regulation in 68 different IOR conventions to date, and the Republic of Serbia has ratified around 28 of these conventions. By ratification of the 2006 IOR Convention on the Work of Seamen, the Republic of Serbia will have an obligation to report only on the application of this Convention, instead of on the 28 conventions so far. The Law confirming the IOR Convention on the Work of Seamen from 2006 adopted the National Assembly on 18 October 2011, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, International Contracts No. 8/11. The third is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Restriction of Liability for Maritime Requests and the 1996 Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Convention on the Restriction of Liability for Maritime Requests. The Convention on the Restriction of Liability for Maritime Claims was adopted in 1976 and entered into force on 1 December 1986. The aim of this Convention was to establish a higher degree of international uniformity in the area of restrictions on shipowners' liability for maritime claims. This Convention lays down high limits to shipowners' responsibilities, but to the extent that they are allowed to carry out responsibilities at an acceptable premium of insurance. Also, a secure criteria for losing the right to a restriction has been established. The 1976 Convention was amended in the 1996 Protocol. The 1996 Protocol was necessary because of the need to raise the limits of responsibility for maritime claims, due to the depression of the value of the special rights of towing in which the limits of shipowners' responsibilities are expressed. Also, the 1996 Protocol established a simpler procedure to increase the amount of responsibility. The protocol came into force in 2004. Now come two agreements from passenger or truck traffic. The Republic of Latvia and Ukraine were part of the Soviet Union until independence. Road traffic with the Soviet Union was regulated by the International Road Traffic Agreement, signed in Moscow in 1970, amended and completed in 1985. This Agreement provides for the authorisation of the direct and extra-line transport of passengers, except for two types of extra-line transport, which are carried out without authorisation, to transport things, except in eight cases of the transport of things regulated by this Agreement, which are carried out without authorisation. The sixth agreement is on co-operation in the area of air traffic between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro. An air traffic co-operation agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro was signed in Belgrade on 3 February 2012. The area of air traffic between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro is not particularly contractually regulated at bilateral level, as both states are signatories of a multilateral agreement establishing a common European airspace and have ratified and submitted instruments of ratification to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe of the Union and to the Republic of Serbia on 24 November 2009, and Montenegro on 15 November 2007. The parties will ensure that the departments responsible for defence and traffic affairs conclude each other appropriate acts to create and provide conditions for regulating the concept of flexible use of relevant airspaces. The Civil Aviation Directorate of the Republic of Serbia and the Civil Aviation Agency of Montenegro should make up an assessment of the needs and opportunities for the establishment of a joint supervisory body over air navigation service providers, supporting an initiative to form a future functional airspace block and common air navigation service providers to sign international agreements regulated in the initiative, etc. Dear Members, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10667	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Donka Banovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10668	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I wish, Mr President, that you had read who the representatives and other parliamentary groups are, simply to know how much interest this House has in these very important laws. In this set of laws, we have six traffic laws. Mr. Secretary explained these six proposals pretty quickly. Very rarely it happens that the laws that are united from the same area. In the previous set of laws we had laws that were completely different areas, but they were united so that I could say that at least this time the Assembly united laws that were from the same area, but of course, there is no time to talk about all six draft laws. One law is in fact an agreement on co-operation with Montenegro in the area of air traffic. Two draft laws are agreements in the field of road traffic. One is an agreement with Ukraine, and the other is an agreement with Latvia. There are three draft laws in the field of water traffic and these are two draft laws concerning the validation of a convention already signed by the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Government and is one proposal for a whole new law, a law we have not had so far, which is a law on state membership and registration of a vessel. Most of the time, in my discussion, I'm going to look back at these draft laws in the field of water traffic, and above all this new bill. If I have time, I'll say something about those conventions. The Republic of Serbia is taking a significant place within the European water network and has about 1,600km of inland waterways. However, water traffic accounts for only 7% of the total volume of traffic in the Republic. So that's a very small percentage, and it can be concluded that we are very lagging behind the volume of water traffic in other European countries, which are about 15% on average, not to mention the Netherlands as an exceptional example where water traffic is represented by 40%. It's only 7% in our house. Some 900 vessels of different types and purposes are included in the home register of ships of inland navigation. The domestic water transport companies in Serbia have about 400 vessels in operational use. The state of the river fleet is bad, mostly due to the age structure. So the vessels are pretty old and on average they're about 36 years old. The domestic passenger liner is almost nonexistent. It has been very poorly developed, although the number of passenger ships is increasing every year, though ships sailing under a foreign flag, which are sailing into Serb ports. You have information that in our ports each year, that number is increasing, about 500 passenger ships agreeing, although they sail under other people's flags and transporting about 100,000 passengers, so it seems to me that in recent years our tourism industry has recognized this as a great developmental opportunity. The total number of water traffic employees is around 7,000 people. When this number is added to 5,000 Serbian citizens who work as sailors, but on seaships that sail under other people's flags or winding other states, then around 12,000 people are engaged in this area. Then, in the Republic of Serbia, there are currently 10 ports and ports open to international traffic, and the master of the internal navigation plan is scheduled to reduce the number of ports that would be opened for international traffic in the coming period. The tendency is to aggregate, i.e. decrease the number and to practically enable the concentration of overwork in certain industrial areas. Another piece of information you might find interesting, which is that we have 50 registered shipping companies. As I said, in Serbia, about 12,000 people are directly related to this area. As for the bill of state and vessel registration, I initially said it was brand-new. We've never had such a law before. We had different laws from some earlier periods that certain parts of this matter were regulated, and now we have one full legal framework. What is one of the most important reasons, which is said by the minister, and it also says in the light of the law, that the adoption of this law simplifies the vessel's registration procedure in the appropriate register and that the role of courts is abolished, so that this registration procedure should be faster and simpler. The second newspaper is the opening of a register for seaships. It's so-called. the international register of maritime ships. Then, the possibility of temporary admission or printing of a seagoing ship into an international register is provided. That law also lays down provisions on the nationality of the vessel, the provisions on the identification of the vessel. I think the entire 10 members are committed to identifying the ships, where they go up in detail, starting with each vessel having a name, having a unique number, etc. Of course, regulation and registration of ships of inland navigation, registration of ships of maritime navigation, etc. Anyway, this is a pretty big law and there are some 194 members. In the light of the bill's proposal, however, the minister did not speak in the opening part today, but it explains that this is the first step towards creating a common legal framework that would be attractive to large shipowners and that they are enrolling part of their fleet in a domestic register, so that those ships that would be registered in a domestic register, vessels under the flag of the Republic of Serbia. That's what you say in an explanation, and that's a nice wish. However, from the very proposal for a law, you do not even explain why now that we adopt this law, Serbia would become more competitive or attractive to enroll some shipowners than some other states? You can't see it from the bill, nor did you state it in an explanation. Why would it be more attractive for a shipowner to enroll part of his fleet in our international register, and he would sail under the Serbian flag than, say, Slovakia or Austria? I expect you to tell us that. I listed Slovakia and Austria as countries that have no maritime coast, which are continental as Serbia. I don't know if you know, Slovakia has 10 seaships, the Czech Republic has 15, Austria has a fleet of camels – 10. These are countries that have no seashore, but also how they work on the development of maritime traffic, water traffic in general, because it is known that water transport is much cheaper, much more efficient and what is also very important, much cleaner. It's much less air pollution, water, soil, whatever you want, when water traffic is used more than road traffic. It's just that we don't use those advantages of transporting water traffic at all. I said this bill has 194 members. Some parts and institutes are very well worked out, and there are details that have gone into some procedures and procedures. However, what is to be resented, and I don't know how much time a colleague had to read this bill in detail, but you have members and attitudes in this law, Mr. Minister, which are completely incomprehensible and vague, even the quality of the text is different. You have that the first few heads are better understood. This part that speaks of the entry of naval ships is rather vague and incomprehensible, and eventually the law becomes understandable again. Why am I saying this? Because I believe that from this home every law in any area to enter the legal order of the Republic of Serbia must be understood, regardless of what will apply, perhaps, to a small number of citizens. I have submitted some 19 amendments, but to tell you the truth, I have not had the strength to give you an amendment to any position or member that is incomprehensible. For the sake of illustration, I've submitted some three or four amendments to you and I've just pointed out that you don't understand what you want with that attitude and that if you don't understand, I couldn't even suggest a correction. As an illustration of one attitude, simply to hear what it is and to see that I am not exaggerating, and as an illustration of an incomprehensible member, I will read Article 144 of the bill, so I will ask my colleagues to pay attention to whether they will understand what they want here. Otherwise, that's the part that speaks of the notation. "The note of the dispute in the case of an expropriation suit, or in the case of an application for the determination of the actual right resulting from the maintenance, has no fact against third parties who, relying on the register, have achieved a certain registration before the proposal to record the dispute reached the authority leading the register of ships." That's one sentence. The second sentence in that position – "If the legal verdict found that the prosecutor had acquired a certain real right by maintaining it, the right acquired by maintaining it, or the primary order before all the enrolments that were made after the notice of the dispute, and all the rights entered after the notice of the dispute which is in conflict with it, will be deleted on the party's proposal." This is Article 144. I didn't understand this, otherwise if I understood, I might have submitted an amendment that would make this member more understandable. I don't want to be wrong my soul, but it seems to me that you or some other computer translation program have been used. When you use a computer translation program from English to Serbian, you get sentences like this. Or it was a translator, and I can't believe it is, because if it is, then you need to change the service that's doing this to you. This is just one example, and there are more members like this. I have intervened in three, four places, and in the light of these amendments, I have also written that I expect the proposing, i.e. the ministry, to once again comb this part of the members who are so incomprehensible, because there is room for the relevant Assembly Committee to intervene with the amendment, or even the Government to correct the incomprehensible parts of the law. If nothing, the law must be understandable to the user. Mr. Minister, I'd like to use your presence today. It seems to me that a few weeks ago we had some other laws in the area of traffic, though, amendments and additions to the Law on ports on internal waters and you weren't there, was Minister Ilic, but I will use your presence and ask you a few questions. One is related to water traffic and the development of water traffic in the Republic of Serbia. The second question is about Corridor 10. The first issue related to the development of water traffic in Serbia is this initiative by your colleague, Minister Bačević, who is staying in China these days. I know this from the media, I don't know from any other sources, and I don't have that information, but I know from the media that he's going to be in China from January 21st to January 27th. Minister Bacevic is the minister of natural resources, mining and spatial planning of Serbia. He said he is leaving for China because Serbia is interested in building the Danube-Vlica Morava-Wardar-Egeysko Sea water channel, so that it would be a major project that would cost about 8 billion euros and that the construction of the waterway could employ around 30,000 workers. The canal would be 665 km long and would mostly go through the Velika Morava corridor, and the side channels would lead to Nis, Kings and Skopje. This is information from the paper. What I would like to ask because yet you are the minister of traffic is what you think about the possible construction of such a channel, would that figure of 8 billion euros, which would certainly be a new debt to the citizens of Serbia, mean that after all the debts left by the previous government would have entered an even greater debt crisis or dubiosis? What's your opinion on this? The opinion of a layman is that if at this point we have a water network for traffic and we use only 7% of the existing and what God has given us as a river traffic, what is the interest of Serbia to invest 8 billion euros in debt to build this channel? Maybe you know something we can't know. My second question is probably a question that they probably keep asking you – when are you finally planning to end Corridor 10? You know that I am from Dimitrovgrad and that Corridor 10 is very important for both Serbia and other regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10669	Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10670	When I defended the law, I always had the practice of listening to the opinion of distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, so I would answer. However, Mrs. Donka has explained so thoroughly the law better than I do, and every point and every item and everything she has said besides these development projects which I will and will comment on will I accept. I'm not so smart as to explain to you how every law is available to the minister, but the law has passed the procedure and I expected it to be in that procedure, not to comment where, because you all know how the laws go to us, this will be cleared, at least as far as the text is concerned. But I already know its amendments, and I think in the final version, the law will get the form to be understood by everyone. One thing that's important for the law and for everything Mrs. Donka said, water traffic carries 7.8 or 9% of the total traffic in our country. That's a little bit. In Europe it is 15 to 30%, depending on the configuration of the terrain of these countries and the ability of the economy to monitor it. In rail traffic, it's also a small percentage, 20%, for objective or subjective reasons, not to get into it. Road traffic draws the most, and that's what must be the policy of this government and every future government, to change that relationship. To change in favour of water and rail traffic. The scattered cargo has to go to the river and the railroad, and that's the program we built. Why haven't we done it so far? Because our rivers, the Danube, Tisa and Sava, that I'm not talking about other rivers and canals, haven't been cleared and the first job I've ever done before was to prepare for the cleaning of the Danube, Sava and Tise, and that's what we started. Today, 82 places on the Danube are a cleaner river of the Danube. Under one favourable contract is led by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where we are on the basis of loads, i.e. iron, etc., paid works. So it won't cost the state anything and we'll have a clear waterway. It was a prerequisite that we could talk further about the affirmation of our ports and the creation of new ports and the great interest of foreigners to enter our ports. As for the elements relating to the law itself regarding maritime traffic, we do not have that much experience, at least these young people who have been doing these laws, but surely this attitude relating to the liberalisation of the enrolment creates the possibility for foreign shipowners to enter their ships into our registers and thus, what you said about Slovakia, creates the conditions that our economy lives there and at least some dinar of these elements. In the end, we're going to development projects, so I don't take much time. Of course, as a man who deals with 40 years of development, I know what development means. The hardest jobs are those relating to development, so we understand each other. The man who proposes a new idea must then explain the idea to both citizens and authorities. I've been through these experiences with both high-speed rails and corridors and with all these elements, and you're the very witnesses of how much criticism I'm suffering today because by 2008 until I joined the government, no one knew what corridors were. Today, some say that the corridors have been treated before. Never. Now the corridors know each other and now I'm criticizing myself, although I'm criticizing myself, but I'm glad that all citizens know that Corridor 10 is a priority and it should be a priority, and that's our entry into Europe. Same thing with the canal. I've been in those waters for 40 years. There's been a conversation about that for a hundred years. Same thing with the stripes. Today someone's trying to explain how it's wrong. That's not true. All these development projects at the stage when they come into realisation have to be fully defined. The channel you're talking about has to be defined at least in the form of a project when there's a decision on whether or not we're going to get into it. Now the stage of preparation is, and I pray once again, I always use the opportunity to say that, in the design of such large projects are two phases – preparation, which contains these basic elements, documentation, and then idea projects, and then expropriation, so the security of funds, and the realization of the project, and then the construction begins. If you access it like that... A relationship must be one-on-one in the world. If you've been building for a year, prepare for a year. If you've been building for five years, prepare for five years and then we'll have results. I have to say the example of Corridor 10. We consciously entered without being prepared to implement the project because it was significant. That's what I'm proud of. The channel you're talking about is in the preparation phase and let's let the people prepare the project and we'll see when we decide. The study will show how cost-effective this project is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10671	Mrs. Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10672	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the citizens of Serbia, we have before us the text of a law that ensures, among other things, the harmonisation of domestic legislation with EU law, as well as international conventions, adopted under the auspices of the UN. In fact, no candidate country for EU membership, whether coastal or continental, can successfully bring an end to the EU accession process unless its national maritime legislation is in line with the European legislation. The evil languages will, of course, say that a large part of the provisions of this law are unnecessary in everyday practice, taking into account the fact that the RS has lost coastal state status in the past two decades through the succession of the former common state and has become a classical continental country. However, regardless of the fact, and according to respect for other European countries that do not have access to the sea, RS has passed a set of laws in the previous period that fully regulate the matter of internal and maritime navigation. Unfortunately, we are not currently in a situation where we can compare economically with Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, countries that have no sea, but which have a respectable commercial fleet. I therefore believe that by adopting laws such as the one on the agenda today, the RS creates such a total economic and incentive environment that will attract foreign owners and other representatives of the international maritime economy in order to determine the number of maritime vessels and other vessels in the future to sail under our flag. On the other hand, probably as part of the tradition and heritage of past times, a large number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, about 5,000 of them, are engaged in a variety of jobs on maritime ships, which is more than an impressive figure for one continental country. This is one of the essential reasons for this area to be properly regulated. Also, I believe this law simplifies the procedures for entering ships and other vessels. The procedure is currently in the jurisdiction of the courts, which changes the provisions of this law, while meeting reform requirements, as well as the role and task of the judiciary, and also reducing judicial costs. The future new jurisdiction, depending on the specific vessel to be entered in the register, moves to the competent port captainate in Belgrade, i.e. the Ministry of Transport. The procedure for enrolling ships in one of the laws of the established registers is a specific procedure which represents a mixture of entries in land books and a classical administrative procedure, making it necessary by law to edit this area in detail. In this way, the vessel registration procedure shall be maximumly accelerated. I believe that the potential development of the national maritime economy is an extremely important provision for Article 47. Proposal for this law, which allows for the temporary registration of a seagoing ship into international registration ships on the basis of the BAR for charter. This creates a legal basis for domestic companies, under more financially favourable conditions, to borrow maritime ships. This long-term chartered ships without crew and insurance, registered in a special list of international registers of maritime ships, will sail under our flag, take part in world maritime transport and trade and thus contribute to the repair of the country's external trade balance, in general. Articles 51 to 54 have been regulated on the principle of the issue of citizenship of crew members of these ships, as well as their equal status, which is very important, given the above-mentioned procedure on the number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are currently engaged as sailors. Also, I consider it to be a completely new and incomparably flexible solution to the provision in Article 59. The proposal for a law which allows the shipowner, i.e. the ship's register, to register the ship in construction immediately after the signing of the contract for the construction of a particular ship, i.e. after giving an adequate declaration of the intention to build and thus giving the opportunity to obtain the necessary financial resources necessary for the construction of the whole ship. All in all, given that 90% of goods, which are the subject of trade between EU member states and other countries, are transported by ships, and that, more importantly, this type of transport transfers 40% of goods to trade between the EU member states themselves. I hope that the adoption of this law will be the first step towards creating a common legal framework that will encourage the development of this significant economic sector, and in this respect I would inform you that the New Serbia parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10673	The word has Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10674	Here's how a man changes principles in a moment. Two beautiful ladies got the law better and read the law than I did. I thank Mrs. Filipovski and Mrs. Donkey, but I didn't answer Donkey when the Corridor will be completed. I was talking about when the construction phase starts, when the contracts start, then we can track the deadlines in the hour and in the day, and on Corridor 10, except for Grdelica, they're all agreed, all the shares are agreed. According to these contracts, which we have, the beginning of 2015 is the end of Corridor 10. So we'll finish 330 kilometers of Corridor. All the jobs on Corridor 10, all the shares are under contract, there's only one left. It's just that the bra isn't arranged and she's the hardest. All deadlines in these contracts are related to the end of 2014 and the beginning of 2015. He's got 12 shares. Those are the deadlines we have to follow. These are fixed deadlines. Of course, there will certainly be a break in those deadlines, but it is normal in construction, but it will deal with other services. So, Corridor 10 will be in the term of office of this government, if something else is not happening, it must be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10675	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10676	Mr. Minister, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing six draft laws, namely the confirmation of the agreement. What's important to say is that in this assembly we have this tradition of joining agendas and talking about everything and everything. In the way the congregation functions in relation to the previous congregation majority, absolutely nothing has changed. We always have a united debate by several laws. Usually these laws are an emergency procedure in the congregation procedure, although today we are discussing an important law, which is the Law on statehood and the registration of a vessel that did not enter the congregation procedure by emergency procedure. What Mr. Mrkonjic is obliged to answer is why are we discussing this law today, not in the fourth quarter of 2011, as foreseen by the national strategy for Serbia's EU accession, to discuss this law in the second half of 2011? What condition did that make, apart from the choices that were made in May last year, to discuss this in this congregation meeting, and not in the last one? What condition has it that we have the text of the law, as Mrs. Banovic said, which is understandable or incomprehensible? It's absolutely understandable to me, since it's obviously written in Serbian-Croatian, which is the language we all speak. Who read this law? How did the ministers vote on this law if it was written in Serbian-Croatian language? That's the point. Can we now, through the process of amendments, either the Assembly Committee or MPs, change 50% of the text of this law just because it is written in Serbian-Croatian language? It's a language I absolutely understand, which I speak, as most of you do here. Also, this law is important because it treats one area that has been established by EU documents, which we need to put into our legislative process and the LDP absolutely supports it. Mr. Mrkonjic, I should get some more questions from you, which is that, in the 2013 budget, the Ministry of Economy and Finance provided for shipbuilding subsidies, and these same subsidies can no longer be used to build trucks, tractors, all those subsidies that existed in previous years. How much of this construction has been developed in Serbia? What companies are these? What kind of jobs are these? How much will this bring new jobs, or has there been any analysis of how much the suspension of such a type of subsidy for the production of trucks or tractors reduced the number of employees in 2013? What inspired the government to grant subsidies for the construction of ships and to lift subsidies for the construction of trucks and tractors? And also, what's characteristic, when we have points like this that we need to talk about, and you, Mr. Morava-Wardar-Egey, said something about it a little while ago. We've received information that you're the only minister who's been present so far at all the government sessions since it was established. Did the government session discuss the project, when discussed, and did the government make any views, conclusions, decisions, or authority to pursue such a project? If you have said that the relationship between the preparation and the construction of a project 1:1, or as much as a project is being prepared, it is also necessary for the construction, as the Government has provided time for the preparation of this project Morava-Wardar-Egey. We have information that Minister Bacevic is already in China and is talking to potential creditors about the construction of such a channel. What do you think of the idea as a transport minister? Has this been discussed, for example, with the Republic of Macedonia? Is the Macedonian government interested in building such a channel? I understand that you, as a representative of the government here, represent the views of the government, but as a traffic man, it is important that we finally get your position on this, because in the second half of 2012, it seems to me in November or December of the month, Minister Bacevic said that there are a huge number of interested investors for the construction of such a channel, so he mentioned that these investors from Russia, China, Germany, Macedonia, Greece. Did you talk to any of these investors, or is it a pre-election story about investing in the next 10 years 100 billion euros or dollars, now it doesn't matter at all, it comes down to being no investment, but taking credit for realisation... (President: Please, Mr. Hajdarevich, stick to the agenda. What you're talking about, the election campaign and everything else, it doesn't say anything, in any of the proposed laws. I understand the need to talk about it, but I'm asking you to stick to what's in the bill, and they're very clear. ) Mr. President of the Assembly, I was inspired by the previous presentation of Mr. Minister who had just spoken about the implementation of this project, including the Corridor 10 project, but we had already discussed this with the Minister in the previous session, but now I just wanted to get some additional information. Indeed, Mr. President, you will see us as MPs, if the minister starts talking about some subject, it is quite understandable that we are looking for further information. Is the Morava-Wardar-Egej project a private project by Minister Bačevic or is it a project by the Government of the Republic of Serbia? That is what Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic should tell us because he is in serious charge of traffic, and he is, according to the information we have, the minister who attended all the government sessions since its constitution in July 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10677	Mr. Grouchy, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10678	I didn't come here to talk, I speak at least. Let me answer the law first, although I already said that when Mrs. Donka said that. I may be the oldest here, but I'm Yugoslav still. Therefore, the language in which it is written does not interest me only if it is Serbian-Croatian, so I can understand it. So don't do that. Of course, most of these laws have to be kind of brought into line with foreign documents, and that's nothing new, but we're also going to clear that up in the amendment discussion, as far as the objection to the law is concerned. As for the project, I tried to explain a little before, on a project that cost me a lot of nerve, that's that corridor, and that's those famous high-speed tracks. The rapid railways were drawn in the EU projects in 1991, the rapid railways in Serbia. That's what we've been talking about ever since. Of course, somewhere even, and even among you, it's ridiculous and it's all about my name, I was then, as director of the institute, tied to these negotiations with the EU. What we're late for today, we need to know that in 2017 the train has to go through Serbia at 100 miles an hour, and I say, we all laugh. The reasons are mostly objective, no money, no experts, etc. It's the same thing with this project Mr. Hajdarevic is talking about. Of course the government hasn't discussed it, but I've given consent to anyone who has the idea that this idea is realising until some stage, so when it's the pre-project phase, then we'll talk about it. That's right. I mean, taught by experience, it's true that I've been to all the sessions, somewhere I'm the worst, somewhere I'm the best, that's how it always goes with us. So until there's an official form of pre-project, the government won't talk about it. I don't see why Mr. Bacevic couldn't go and prepare the ground for it. At the end of the line, for example, I will also say about Corridor, you were all surprised – what did the minister of traffic give Veli to lead Corridor 11, Verica to lead the corridor of the Boran? That's the kind of project the whole government's been working on. I'm not vain at all. Have a minister take the responsibility to lead a phase. People made a commitment to lead the phases and some water. What's the big deal? No project is a personal project. I always speak for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I never spoke for the Ministry of Traffic. So the government of the Republic of Serbia is working on all major projects in general. There are seven ministries working on Corridor 10, and that shouldn't surprise you. Mr. Bacevic has this assignment, I gave consent. So let's get him into this project, and we'll see when the final phase is over, and then we can discuss it. I'm asking you to discuss it in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10679	Replica, Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10680	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for a long time here, as a People's MP, I was present until the state, not rules, was building up, but decomposing. It seems to me that, when it comes to many ministers, unfortunately, I can say as if they were competing, who will do more harm to the state and to the citizens. Also, every project this government is trying to get into is being resisted, and I understand that. The opposition believes that this is their strategy and that through their discussions they want to degrade the results some governments have achieved. It's the right to a political struggle and I won't argue with that. As fellow MPs, at least in one part, I ask you not to do this, that if someone has an idea and if they want to implement it and if it comes to the situation that this idea is feasible in the end, don't take it as evil and spoil it. That's the problem. We had a story about this famous land. We all witnessed last year what our harvest and agriculture was like because of the drought. Now we will argue, at what price, how did he do it? Now I ask a simple question – will you from the Emirates bring your workers here? It won't. It'll be ours. Are we going to produce that food? Yeah, we'll do it. Will that improve our government balances? Yes, he will. When it comes to the project currently run by Minister Bacevic, can he bring Serbia something good? Yes, be sure he can, because Europe, at least when it's... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It's a matter of two parts. So, please, for once, if there's an idea, let's discuss it, not judge it in advance, and that it's not what we need.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10681	Replica, Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10682	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you know what, I don't think Minister Bacevic went to China to talk on behalf of the framework of something. According to our information, that's why I asked the question and the LDP is asking for an answer, because it concerns all citizens, has gone to China to seek credit for the implementation of the eight billion-euro channel project. Is that true? Mr. Bacevic, Minister Mrkonjic, said on November 24th that the project of the Morava-Wardar-Egey channel would be completed in the first half of 2013. So we can already talk about some stage of planning because I don't believe that one big project can be completed in 15-20 days. I can't accept what you said, that someone brings the idea to the pre-project, and then the Serbian government will discuss it. If someone goes to look for a loan in the amount, we have information, of eight billion euros, then obviously there's a government decision. You know what, Mr. Arsic, LDP absolutely has no problem with any development project or project that should improve the lives of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. But what the LDP is looking for is how much the realization of any idea costs the citizens of Serbia, in this case in the euro. You know what, just before Mr. Mrkonjic spoke, there were these 90s when the realizations of some ideas didn't just cost money, but also in life, so we warned back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10683	Time. Here you go, Mr. Grouchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10684	Since I see Mr. Kenan trust me, when it comes to development projects, I can say that from this place, there are no fellow developmentists here, I don't see, Obradovic. There are two approaches. It's one for citizens and people, not just citizens, but politicians who don't know, to explain to them what it is. They understand that very quickly. The second is obstruction. Those who don't respond to something new, they're far more dangerous people, they're obstructing every project. I'm not saying that to you right now. I wouldn't want it to turn into reality on this project. I've had many opportunities to survive, even on corridors. And today there are unbelievers because, of course, state conditions change, traffic flows change, money flows change, and that's understandable to me. But that state must have a clear attitude. So the preparation phase costs as much as it costs, it's not big funds, but if the project comes to life, it's a big deal. Not all projects are implemented, please. It could be ten projects and one to be realized, so we should be happy. The other thing, getting credit isn't easy today, you know that. Besides, we're already in charge of the country, as the Junior says, maybe we're over-indebted, and that's where we need to be careful. We know what happened at Azerbaijan. It's a big credit to the previous government, and we started criticizing again. Now we see that business is going well, that people are working and that it was a good loan. So, I'm just asking that understanding. Do not obstruct against the parties for bickering. Don't do that. This house doesn't deserve that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10685	Mr. Arsic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10686	Ladies and gentlemen, let's be more constructive again. Every MP here knows that Minister Bacevic, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, and the first Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, Defence Minister Aleksandar Vukic, and the president of the Republic cannot be in charge of Serbia by their signature. Before that, someone in this congregation needs to press a certain button, and before that, it is necessary to hold a debate. So, don't say it so trendy and tell me how much it's going to cost Serbia. Now I can ask you a simple question – what if we get it and it costs nothing to Serbia but land? Then what? Don't be skeptical. It's the easiest thing to criticise, and the hardest thing to do is to make the best possible relationship of how much it's going to cost the citizens, if only in the land, if there's anything in the money, but to get a project with which, believe me, even those who don't participate will be happy when we live. I guess that's what we ministers choose to do in government, to respond to us, but to have the courage to do something and change. I guess that's why we're going to the election, to change Serbia. She's been going to the bottom so far, we've managed to stop her, no matter how much you disagree. Now it's time to move slowly forward, even if we're a little better today than yesterday, and tomorrow at least a little better than today, so day after day after this decade, I can even say decades of decay.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10687	Replica, Mr. Hajdarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10688	Thank you, Mr. President. I think it's, I'm going to use a bit of a hard word, but I have to, rudely, accuse us of obstruction of LDP just because we're asking if Minister Bacevic went to China to ask for a loan to conduct a project. I suppose we as MPs have the right to get some information or maybe you want to pass some law, so before each session, you can give us a question as to what we can ask the ministers. If as MPs we have no right to ask questions, then I really don't know what this house is for. You said there will be no debt, but there will be an investment a year ago in a ten-billion-a-year election campaign, i.e. within ten years 100 billion euros in the Republic of Serbia, among other things, it will be the realization and project channel Morava-Wardar-Egey. Now we're getting information that it's not going to be any investment, it's going to be a loan. We, as MPs and LDP, insist on it, are now looking for an answer whether it is true or not. The only obstruction, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, in which we attended the previous three or four months was an obstruction of snow cleaning on the highway. I think it's a much more dangerous obstruction than any attempt to accuse us as LDP MPs of any kind of obstruction in this case. Havala.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10689	Mr. Karic, according to the Rules of Procedure, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10690	Article 106, my dear colleagues, dear President, ladies and gentlemen, colleague. It was supposed to go into the essence of the conversation. We've already come a long way. The theme is not that it's missed, but now we've come to the cleaning of the snow. Normally, there will be that. What would I like to say for a moment? You may not have met anyone who isn't familiar. Minister Bacevic always said it would be an investment facility, not a credit facility, to a large extent, perhaps a co-investment project. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is absolutely right. From my experience, from Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic's experience and many who do any serious work is the next thing – give God of 100 projects, which are called strategic, to be realized during the government and during this assembly. So, without the hard words and the waste of time, because all this is suggested is logical and normal. Will it come true? What do these negotiations mean in China? My people, 10, 20, do you know who the Chinese are? I worked with them for a few years. You've been negotiating for two or three years for one $100 million job, not eight billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10691	I think we need to get back to the subject. I ask the MPs to return to the bill. Mr. Grouchy, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10692	You're a smart man, I said - don't be an obstruction. That's what I'm saying because of the record, I don't know, maybe after you start manipulating it. Don't let us go down the road to make it look like an obstruction, not to you, but to all those who speak. So we can talk about the quality of the project, if we know. If we don't know, don't talk. The stage isn't like that to decide. Of course everything will come. We're getting projects far lower in front of parliament, so they don't come so big. So don't let there be obstructions. That's what I said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10693	MP Dejan Radenkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10694	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, we from the SPS won't talk much about this law. I will simply state only briefly the essential reasons why it is important that this law on statehood and the registration of vessels be voted upon and I can only say that in the day of the vote we will declare ourselves positively when it comes to this bill. One of the first and most significant reasons for the adoption of a proposal for a law on the nationality and registration of a vessel is considered to simplify the vessel's registration procedure by abolishing the courts and the transfer of that jurisdiction, meaning the complete procedure, in the jurisdiction of the port captains and the Ministry of Traffic. This is, of course, in line with the reforms and roles of the justice task that it has so far. The bill provides for conditions under which ships of inland navigation owned by domestic shipowners can acquire the property of a "ranean vessel", we know that certain characteristics and conditions had to be met earlier in order to get our ships to sail through the Rayna-Meina channel, and now it is simplified and will be possible for us to simply obtain permits on the basis of the prescribed conditions for such a kind of navigation. The acquisition of this sailing feature automatically expands the waterway network, meaning, under the Serbian flag and under the Serbian flag, it will be possible to sail further. The next reason for the adoption of this law is that the bill has implemented the liberalisation of the conditions for the admission of ships to domestic registers in accordance with EU requirements in relation to the free flow of people, goods and capital. In this connection, the category of compulsory enrolment has been abolished, while the conditions for university enrolment are maximumly liberalised with respect to the requirements of the International Convention on Law and for the existence of so-called The connections between the ship and the state whose flag it carries. Also, it is important that the bill introduces a new type of register for seaboats, so-called seaships. the international register of maritime vessels, as well as the possibility of temporary admission or printing of a seagoing ship into an international register of maritime vessels on the basis of the so-called so-called “seaship”; "Berbot charter." In this way, laws are introduced into domestic legislation, the solutions of developed countries in our environment which, among other things, help domestic economic operators to take as much active part in international maritime navigation as possible and, of course, the economy that has multiple significance for the national economy of all countries, including those without a maritime coast. Finally, to conclude that the proposal for a law is to bring domestic legislation into line with relevant sources of EU law, as well as international conventions adopted under the auspices of the UN. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10695	Thank you. The word Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10696	I want to thank my colleague and friends, he's with me every day, so he knows everything, so I don't want to comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10697	The word has been made by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10698	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I will first and foremost discuss the proposal for a law on statehood and enrolment in the vessel. In the DS, we believe that this law, this bill, is quite well solved, gives us an updated approach to this problem. As far as I know, there have been no objections from the European Commission either, so we can say that it represents a small step towards Serbia's EU. In the DS, we welcome this and we are very pleased to see that in certain ministries we understand the policy of the DS and the previous government that it is necessary to continue the European path and despite the criticisms that we have often suffered from some of the colleagues who are in the ruling coalition today, we are witnessing that we are still following the pro-European policy that has advocated and will always advocate the DS. I think it is in the best interest of all Serbian citizens. As far as the bill itself is concerned, it is clear that after the collapse of the former state of SRJ, there is a need for the Republic of Serbia to take over responsibilities from the field of transport and this matter according to its needs. That's why I'm saying that this law provides a modern approach and applies a new modern technique. The meaning of the law is, and some colleagues have talked about it, and it does well in the explanation, so simplifying the vessel's registration process primarily by abolishing the role of courts in this process and in line with the requirement of reform and the role of the judiciary. We support this, and we also support the fact that this law complies with the relevant UN conventions. It is our obligation as members of the UN and our obligation as one of the founders of this international organisation. It also says in its explanation, and it is very important that this law achieves the first step in creating a legislative framework attractive to large shipowners. This will increase water transport and make it possible to improve the business environment in Serbia, which of course attracts large shipowners in every sense. It's in the interest of our citizens. I don't think we're using enough water transport capacity. EU countries use these opportunities to a great extent, and I think they lie for Serbia with great potential. Large potentials should lie when we talk about water transport and in the Belgrade-Solun channel, an interesting idea to which this law will also apply. There is one member of the 14th draft law that speaks of the port of entry and is said to be the port of entry for a seaboat and a sea yacht in Belgrade. Perhaps an amendment should be made to put some other place on the road from Belgrade to Thessaloniki instead of Belgrade, to dig into a larger space in the Grdelička ravine. A colleague, Srdjan Milivojevic, sent a proposal to the Serbian Parliament's competent committee to adopt the amendment and to make it Stalac. I suggest to my fellow Members that they study this matter a little bit. This would certainly contribute to the development of central Serbia and the municipality of Cicevic itself. In the area of Staljac meet South and West Morava and there is a Great Morava and can be a very interesting idea. But when we talk about this project for which this bill is very important, very simply speaking for such a channel and as far as I know, there is no water, and today everything can really be built. So technology has advanced with good engineers and enough money, there's nothing that can't be built, but the problem of water scarcity can't be solved with any money. If such a thing were to be built, however, a good part of Serbia would run out of water because of the deepening of the river floor for navigation purposes, and then I would talk to people who are dealing with this problem, then water supply of maritime cities in Serbia would be very threatened. Even today, a good part of Serbia's maritime cities has a big problem with water shortages. All over the world, climate change is evident and we are all witnesses and they are being directly maintained to lower water levels in water streams, we already know about our rivers Sava and Danube. Then this existing water problem, with the construction of a channel like this, would get a dramatic situation. There is a study conducted by UN experts back in 1973, which provides for 58 translations in progress from Smederev to Thessaloniki. These are huge works, huge investments, and later in exploitation, we have huge costs to maintain such a complicated system, so the question is, where do we get the money from? A particular problem would be maintaining such a waterway. Costs would be extremely high and should not be ignored. I'm going to give you an example of the Raine-Mein channel in Germany that has far the biggest traffic in Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10699	Mr. Samofalov, I must warn you to return to the topic. I know that you have a political interest in talking about a subject that is interesting to you, but unfortunately the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is very clear – the speaker can only talk about a subject that is on the agenda. The story of the channel, of the maintenance and how much it will cost literally does not touch any members of the law that are on the agenda, please return to the topic and if you have something to say about these members, therefore, about the law that is on the agenda to talk about it. I'm talking about Article 14. The proposal for this law, which speaks of the port of entry, and right here I am talking about the proposal that the DS MP gave to the committee in charge to submit one amendment, which would also apply this law (President: We will talk about amendments when the debate is in particular, of course, you know that you can also talk about it. ). I would be interested in what Minister Mrkonjic thinks is very important, thinks about this subject, he has already talked about it. I think this is very significant, and we in the DS, given that, in the light of this law, it is said that we need to increase the capacity of water transport. Serbia has serious capacities in the Danube and Sava, which are unfortunately still untapped. On the Sava River, almost a single dollar has not been invested since the war. So, to allow for sailing this flow of the Sava River. The Danube is also troublesome. And these two rivers provide great capacity. I really don't know if we use and 50% of these options. It is in the interest of our citizens, not some new borrowing through the brilliant ideas of flows from Belgrade to Thessaloniki. The question is, who's gonna pay for it? What money and why to invest in something that is, in the opinion of all experts, completely economically invaluable and unsustainable, rather than using what Serbia already has. We see Germany doing this with the Rayna-Meina channel, and he's on the verge of rentability, I can only think about what would happen to a project like this. So, as far as the bill is concerned, he's fine, but I'd like to hear from Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic a little bit more detail as to what he thinks about this project. We heard Mr. Bacevic in an interview with Tanjug said he was leaving for China because of this project. There is no reason for some fellow SNS MPs to be ashamed of it. The minister made it very clear. We're interested in who wants to be in charge of Serbia's citizens with projects that are unreasonable. The word is Mr. Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10701	I thank Mr. Samofilov for his support of the law, in general, and I would not comment further on the channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10702	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10703	I believe that when the previous speaker, a fellow speaker, spoke and told a place in Serbia, from Belgrade to Thessaloniki, that he said and said the lapus, because I know that he certainly knows what Serbia's true borders are. I wish Serbia were bigger too, but some place in Serbia from Belgrade to Thessaloniki, however, Serbia is slightly smaller. What is more surprising to me is that someone who has built a significant infrastructure facility, such as the South Stream that will be built in the Republic of Serbia, and we know that some parliamentary groups and some MPs in the previous and this assembly have been against such an infrastructure facility, such as a channel that will potentially be built, are significantly improving the security structure of a single state. These are the basic postulates of one country's security. If this is a new policy and if this is something you're up for, to stop investment, to stop business, to make Serbia a safer country, say it out loud -- we're against it, but by destroying such projects, if you think the Government of the Republic of Serbia will become more incompetent, no, you won't stop that kind of thing in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10704	The first registered speaker, MP Ljubisa Stoimirovic. Mr Stoimirovic is not here. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10705	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first, I will interpret this law a little bit, or I will welcome the air traffic law of Serbia-Montenegro. I believe that, regardless of political furniture and political circumstances, it is always worth making agreements with brotherly Montenegro, and I reiterate that the political environment in one and the other country must not affect the same people, who live in two countries, no matter how much they are now, nationalally identified with the people in Serbia. Every relationship with Montenegro, with BiH, due to Republika Srpska, with Macedonia, should be welcomed because it should always have friends, good neighbours. Better to have good neighbors than good relatives. For these reasons, I welcome and support it. As for the vessel and the topic that we have touched, just to comment that Serbia is between the east and the west, that we have the Morav Valley and that this is the merger between the east and the west, however many people think it is. I would advise some, who didn't understand, left the session, and talked about the importance of Moravia Valley, asking, say, Friedrich Neuman. Perhaps he will explain it to them, and since he is no longer alive, to explain it, perhaps someone from his foundation will be able to explain to them the importance of the Morava Valley project, or the importance of the Morava Valley between the central European link to the east. The river Corridor 7, which connects with Morava, passes through Serbia. This is the most important road between Central Europe and the Black Sea. Serbia is a continental country, it sinks during the former regime, but it is not at sea. Unfortunately. In addition to the Danube, and it is floating, Tisa, Sava, is also a floating channel of the Danube-Tisa-Dunav, in which nothing is invested. We've got plenty of ports of Apatin, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Panchevo, Smederevo, Negotin, etc. It's on the Danube. We have Mitrovica, Shabac, Belgrade on Sava. Tisa has ports in Sainta and Vienna. Water traffic is very important. No matter what the predecessors presented, especially since the intensities for environmental protection, that transport, especially in Europe, from Europe to the Black Sea, are slowly moving from society to water flows. Serbia is fortunate to have several sections of Corridor 10 and Fleet Road 7 and that is one real fortune, regardless of what those who laugh at this moment did not know how to exploit, it is a real treasure, potentially which we need to know to take advantage of. There is a European Danube strategy and a Danube project, which is not only intended for traffic, but also for development, economic development, development of tourism, etc. All these projects should be supported if we are to be one serious state. In this law on registration, boat records, river boats, various vessels, yachts, fishing boats, etc. That law is very substantial and very good. What I put the amendments on is next. The law says all vessels whose owners are resident in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or legal persons are registered and registered. This time I'm going to tell you especially about sea yachts, which are also foreseen, so that someone doesn't get me wrong, they're under the law. I'm saying that those who laughed, those who resented you, are very responsible for, say, a few of our tycoons, seven of them, have seven yachts of 104.5 million euros. I can kind of think it's this poor girl's money, that somehow through this transition and all kinds of privatization, it's got into their pockets. Now these are yachts registered in foreign ports and foreign tax returns. So, the financial director of that party has a long yacht, I don't know, maybe he's the former financial director of that party, he's got a 48-metre yacht. 28m euros were paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10706	Please, get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10707	I'm talking about boats. Minister, help me. That vessel was purchased most likely from these people for heating up some loaf of bread. Today, Serbs are carefully buying bread, looking at it for three days before buying it, and it's not funny at all, and it's not to throw. This is the fact that the value of these yachts is 104.5m, this is 28m euros and that they are not registered in Serbia. That's why I proposed two amendments, so I don't tell empty stories, since some of them have companies and these yachts are bought on companies and that it's the headquarters of those legal persons on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, I asked that the law specify that they are obliged to register and register these yachts in Serbia's territory, or in our ports. I'll tell you that too - if someone got three sugars for three euros, has a 28m-euro yacht and has to pay 35,000 euros in taxes, so much for coming out, the Republic of Serbia, to register it here, and it doesn't, and then Vukic needs to be who Putin is to call and say, will you give this country something, will you register it here, will you pay a tax to this country or will you just take it from this country? That is why I have proposed these amendments to the vessel registration, that those who have sea yachts are obliged, and in this law it is said that they are obliged, if their seats are legal persons in Serbia's territory, not to avoid registering in Serbia and thus avoiding paying taxes, no matter whose financial directors they were. So I'm not just gonna limit myself to the financial director of the former regime's party. There is much to be said here against the Danube waterway – Morava – Vardar – Aegean Sea, most likely towards Thessaloniki. This project is not the Bačević project. The project, I, when I became an MP in the 1990s, we proposed that Slobodan Milosevic do so. So it's not Bačević's project. It's a project made by some scientists. It wasn't made by us politicians. So maybe there's a chance that this project can be done. As far as I know, the spatial plan should be completed by 2013 and such a project worth between 15m and 17m euros should certainly be supported, if it can be carried out through various investments, because, apart from the more registered vessels, it will contribute to Serbia – it will establish new geopolitical relations and contribute to Serbia's international stability, and there are, believe us, who care, regardless of the abuses of the other side's smile. I think we're going to support these laws, especially this one on state property and vessel registration, but here we're asking that clearly those who are very rudely overrich commit once to leave something to this country. Besides supporting every infrastructure, I'm asking you and us. Since we owe 20 billion euros, it's not that much of a problem that we've made export to repay the debt. The former regime has failed to complete the infrastructure since 2000. She certainly has to finish. But we also have to turn our sleeves and make some serious production that by these roads, that along that railway, our goods are going along these waterways, and the data is that out of six million tons, as far as it goes, almost seven million tons through Serbia's registered cargo, say imports are two million and 800 thousand, and exports are millions and 800 thousand. These data are a little puzzling from two years ago. It shows that we're on a trade, regardless of the traffic, in a fat minus. So my advice is that, in addition to this infrastructure support, if we need to be in charge, develop agriculture and the food industry, turn our sleeves, and, unlike these former workers, hire workers, that everyone can make money, that everyone gets a fair job, that they can earn a piece of bread for their family, that they can make themselves and their own country and the merits of their own country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10708	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10709	Again, I would like to thank Mr Risticevic for the work concerning the support of the laws we have passed, with the conviction that all amendments that the MPs have submitted will be discussed in detail. I believe, according to the quality of the discussion we have now, we're going to adopt most of it. As far as development projects are concerned, I wouldn't talk about them any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10710	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10711	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we have another set of laws that we are discussing and I hope that we will find a common language and that we will succeed in adopting in the interests of Serbian citizens everything that is good and all that can contribute to a better life in Serbia. We don't need to share ourselves in position and opposition on such important laws. I think it is normal for the position to criticise what the government is proposing, that is, the position, but it should be in mind and that these are the laws that are necessary for life in Serbia and that these are the laws that we have to work on together. It is mentioned that this project should go through three countries, a channel that would go through Serbia's Moravim, via Vardar, down to Greece. All now give some great importance and great power, the contribution of Minister Bačević to the project. Why are we so boasting about a man who has very little credit, only he's at the minister's post at the moment? I remember while I was still a student, Professor Mileusnic, who was one of the dominated management in then-Yugoslavia, spoke about the project. I remember at meetings of the Association of Engineers of Labour Organisations here in Belgrade, we often talked about the possibilities of realising the project. There are also some 12 billion debts, i.e. loans to be taken over by Serbia from China, which would be spent on the project. First, Serbia does not have the strength to be a realist for the project itself, but it is perfectly normal and it is good to engage in something that would allow Serbia's prosperity. We need to take advantage of the opportunities of other countries that are willing to invest in our fields. This project, if it would come to its realization, would bring much to Serbia. Will it come in time when we are MPs, while this government is? I don't know, but it's a project that will someday be implemented and it's a project that will do much good for Serbia and its citizens. I believe in this project that many countries will participate, especially those countries that have capital and are willing to invest. We're a small country, and we don't have that power, but we need to take advantage of the ideas, we need to take advantage of the opportunities that give us the geographical position and the situation that we're in. On the other hand, I would like to say something about the Air Traffic Act between Serbia and Montenegro. We're in a geographical area that, as I recall, I was once a student of that flight control school, and I believe that even today, there are two district controls. One is the district control of Zagreb, and the other is the district control of Belgrade and this district control of Belgrade, at least at the time I was there, so called, covering both Serbia-Montenegro. It is normal for us to work together with Montenegro and it is normal for us to create laws that will allow this traffic to be safer and better accessible to all citizens, i.e. users in these areas. I believe that none of us present here, who are also in charge of voting these laws, are against the fact that this traffic between Serbia and Montenegro, or in these areas, is much better and much safer than it has been so far, and so far I believe that security has been satisfactory and that at the end of this session we will be pleased to adopt these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10712	Did you want to do business? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10713	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm reporting and advertising article 106. The Rules of Procedure, given that the previous speakers did not stick to the agenda and did not note to return to the agenda. Obviously, it is the defence of a single project, and it is one of the defenses that follows before this project is even found on the government's agenda, that is, this Parliament. It would be good to say one concrete fact about this Morava-Wardar-Egey Sea channel, which is that Serbia is just... (President: But not in the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because that hurts the Rules of Procedure. So don't talk about the details of anything. You can talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure, that I or any of the chairmans hurt the Rules of Procedure, but don't talk about the details of the debate, because that's how you abuse the Rules of Procedure and violate what you advertise yourself. ) I am talking about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, because when it comes to hurting the Rules of Procedure, it must be pointed out that this country owed 17 billion euros at the end of 2012... (President: It is not possible to talk about it in the breach of the Rules of Procedure, since the debts of the state have nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. )......................................................................................................... And with these additional records... (President: Please, you have different ways, you could have applied to the agenda point, you could have used your right in any way. Please, don't abuse the institution of breach of the Rules of Procedure, because then it will open a debate in which each MP can speak for two minutes about anything he thinks of, and I really can't allow it, because the Rules of Procedure obliges me to hold a session in a way that I don't allow it. ) Whenever the subject is unpleasant, you simply turn off the microphone to the MPs... (President: No, it's not an awkward topic. You have the right to speak, but please sign up for your word. I was just talking about not sticking to the agenda. They were talking about that channel, and it's not the subject of today's debate. Right? They didn't say any concrete things about that channel. (President: I've pointed that out several times and I support you in that. I ask all MPs to observe the agenda. That's where I really support you 100%. ( ) Whenever it comes to an unpleasant subject, the MP is obviously interrupted, shut down from the electronic system, and in any case you did not warn previous speakers to stick to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10714	First, I'm sorry you didn't list a member of the Rules of Procedure who was injured, but never mind, I understood your intentions and intensity. As you've seen, your microphone is not turned off, and at this point I'm telling you in the microphone, at no point did I turn off your microphone, you could talk. Of course, I can't let you talk about something that's not a matter of injury to the Rules of Procedure. I have always, and in this session I have used this right several times and asked all MPs not to talk about something that is not the subject of the agenda. I think the witnesses are all MPs. Only today did I use it three or four times in the debate. That's why I support your request to talk about what's on the agenda. So I ask all the MPs to speak about the points, or the law that are on the agenda, which we will also respect the presence of the minister who came here to defend the points of the law. I ask the MPs when there is any other institute ahead of us, or the law or anything, we can talk about it without a problem. Today we have six points that are on the agenda – 2, 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20 and all MPs, please talk about it. I know some MPs need to take advantage of this session of the National Assembly. You don't have to stand, you finish what you had to say. (Judita Popovic: Unfortunately, I did not. You can't talk. I just said I don't think the Rules of Procedure is hurt. Of course, you have the right to request in the voting day that we make this clear, if you are not satisfied with my explanation and the National Assembly will decide in the voting day whether the Rules of Procedure, how you advertised it, or not. That's not the problem. Do you want the National Assembly to plead? Yeah. Mr. Minister, did you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10715	I would like to thank Mr Stojmirovic for his support of the laws. It is nice to think of people here who have made a huge contribution to development, especially the Danube River, which was Professor Mileusnic, who was also my associate and for that reason I thank Mr Stojmirović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10716	The word is Mrs. Gerov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10717	Mr. President, you've violated article 107. The Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the dignity of the National Assembly. You have just said one inaccuracy when you had a little sex with LDP MP Judita Popovic, saying she did not specify a member of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Popovic said in her first sentence that she is calling for Article 106, which is the topic of the agenda. In that sense, I believe you violated Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, because you need to listen more carefully to the MPs and their exposure, so you would know that she has called on Article 106. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10718	If that's true, I apologize. I really didn't hear it, and I didn't do it without any intention. I didn't mean any harm, and if that's true, I accept that. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10719	I called before the minister took his word. I have an objection to both colleagues, or I'm advertising an injury. 108, 103 and 106, in relation to art. 103, 106 and 108. Article 103 speaks of the right to advertise infringements of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. - on the work at the National Assembly session is the old president of the National Assembly. From the appearance of my colleagues, I have not had the impression for days that they are advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but are trying to take the lead in the session and that they themselves are being set up on the order of the National Assembly, which excludes the authority of the National Assembly president, or the chairman. I think they're misusing that kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I must have stepped away from the agenda myself. Also, I think that colleagues should know that the first person to step away from the agenda and who, by the way, started talking about topics that were not on the agenda was Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic. He first began to talk about the Danube-Morava-Vardar waterway and it was necessary that in some way we too defend some views of the ruling majority. We are not the ones who broke the Rules of Procedure, we are not the ones who have strayed from the subject of the agenda, we simply responded to the call Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic gave in several of his presentations. Mr. Kenan Hajdarevic spoke, spoke inaccurately... (President: Yes. I'm just asking that we don't talk about this on behalf of the Rules of Procedure, because this is a matter of replication. I agree with you. I just want to apologize for stepping down partly from the agenda, wanting to contribute to the topic opened by the MP in question. I'm not asking you to vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10720	Thank you. Since I believe that in one part we have deviated from the agenda, I am also grateful to all the MPs and to contribute to returning to the agenda. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10721	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, as DS, we will certainly vote in favour of these bill proposals, not so much because of your beautiful European image, and your blue-yellow tie that is really wonderful to you, but because of the need for this law to be passed and because, in part, we participated in the drafting of these regulations from the previous DS government. When we talk about these important laws and agreements that we're signing and that we're going to ratify in this high house, I signed up to talk about the bill on statehood and vessel registration. I don't think there's gonna be any problem with us voting for most of these legal proposals and supporting the full text of the law. Of course, I had some remarks and suggestions when it comes to a member of the 14th Law that says - port of registration, where it is said that the port of entry for a seaboat and a sea yacht is Belgrade and that the port of entry of the ship of internal navigation and yachts is the port of which is the seat of a port captain who runs the register of vessels in which the vessel was registered. As a man who comes from Krushevac, I don't think everything has to be in Belgrade. I believe that the SNS absolutely believes in the project of its former president, present-day president of all of us, Tomislav Nikolic, that this waterway will be realized. I don't see any reason not to support my amendment, which will be discussed when amendments are discussed, for the port of entry to be the town of Stalac. That is, the town of Stalać not as the town of Stalać, as the municipality of Stalać, but as the local community of the town of Stalać, because there is a populated place called the town of Stalac. There were Moravas stopped, and I was thinking that I would suggest that the port of enrolment be a Gredel, but I'm not sure that in that very Grdelic seal, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic is much more professional than I am, there's a possibility that next to the railroad and the highway will stop and the port, and maybe they'll move the town of Leskovac. On the other hand, I absolutely believe in the good intentions of the SNS, which says such infrastructure projects increase the security capacity of the RS. I think one of them must be dreaming of building a cosmodrome on RS territory. It will significantly improve our capacities. I will also support Mr. Marijan Risticevic's amendments, although I found it very difficult to understand what he was talking about between the two chewing gums, but I understand that he said that there are some 104.5 million yachts and that he is bothered that they are not registered in the vessel register in Serbia. I absolutely support it, especially since today's leaders didn't come down with three of those five yachts, both in 2008 and in 2009 and 2010. Even the MPs who used to sit in these same places showed photographs. When you didn't mind taking pictures on those yachts when you were in opposition. I am absolutely convinced that your parliamentary group will support your amendments. I wouldn't want you to be alone in that support for those amendments, because I will provide DS support. Don't be insecure so you don't support your colleague's amendments. We'll do it anyway. I think the citizens of Stalac, the citizens of Cicicevic, Paracino, Čupre, Jagodina will be delighted to be able to travel by boat to Belgrade, with high-speed railways. They can choose whether it's fast tracks or fast ships. It is that there will be no water to shower before that trip, but the beauty of a boat trip has no price. Mr. Risticevic, Morava doesn't have that much water to water everything he needs to drink, and a thirsty country, and to give water to the citizens who live there, and how much more can they take to boat it? Besides, you don't have to call on Mr. Neuman. Call on the words of St. Nicholas Velimirovic, who says: "Blessed is the valley of West Morava, for this Western Morava has fed me, washed me, and thank the Lord God if this project lives." Maybe I'll come to the assembly session sometime with my colleagues from Jagodina, Tzupre, Paracino, Svilinca, and maybe we'll secure the quorum on board and record a new series of White Ships. Don't be unserious with such suggestions. The law needs to reflect the real state, not the imagination. The law should respect the facts. The law should respect the power of a nation, because if you create projects that will reach the limits of biological...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10722	Please, since this project isn't on the agenda. That law is not on the agenda. We're discussing the ship's registration law. Your first part of the debate that skillfully included all that I allowed because you were sticking to the agenda, but now I have to ask you to go back to that law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10723	Mr. Stefanovic, this is a little bit like when we were little and watched a cartoon, where two boxers fight and then says one – here it's forbidden to punch in the nose, to the head and knock him out seven, eight times, and says it's forbidden, and the other is allowed. Then the people of power took good advantage of it. We won't from the opposition. I'll just talk about the agenda. Mr. Grouchy, please listen to me very carefully. I am convinced that the town of Stalac will be registered as an onion and that you will support it because it takes a little money to land in Cicevic. It is the smallest municipality in Serbia. There are only 9,500 people. Imagine how proud the citizens of Cicevic will be when they sail through that channel, and it writes everywhere – the port of entry of Cicicvac or Stalac. Again, let me tell you that a few other things bother me in this law, and these are his final provisions. The final provisions of this law also provide for certain sanctions for violations. For failure to comply with this law, a fine of 100,000 to 300,000 will be fined for the violation of a company and another legal person if he does not impair the flag of the RS merchant navy on his ship that sails our territorial waters. If someone has a 27m-euro yacht, they can pay a much bigger fine if they do not highlight the RS flag. I am absolutely convinced that Mr Risticevic will support this because I think these penalties are small and should be brought into line with those penalties provided for in the legislation of Montenegro, Croatia and some other countries. After all, ask our people who sail around the world's seas and oceans what are the penalties for not pointing out the flag and entering the territorial waters of a country and not putting the flag of that country in which they entered. Ships come immediately, whether the sea police, whether the country's Navy, and determines the violation, irregularity and charges. I am absolutely convinced that SNS MPs will vote in favour of this bill. Perhaps sometimes that channel will turn to Počekovina, to Vrnjačka Banja, so that my colleague Babic and I can take a boat to Belgrade and then we don't have to explain to the press how we are going to the session of the Assembly by boat and by white. You can take the first class, and we'll take the second class. There's no problem. When spring comes on deck, we'll all apologize nicely to Belgrade. However, I don't know how you're going to explain to the citizens of Vrnjaka Banja why they can lose drinking water and how you're going to explain to the citizens of Čupre, Jagodina and Svilinac that the drinking water will not be. Finally, I must point out that DS will vote for all ratifications because these are very important ratifications. I underline, not so much because of the European image, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, because of the need for these laws to be passed. I call on my SNS colleagues to vote in favour of Mr. Marijan Risticevic's amendments. He convinced me with pain and I understood that I should vote in favour of these amendments. If you decide to build a cosmodrome the next day to increase the security capacity of the RS, I'm sure you also have a candidate for a cosmonaut. He knows all about both cattle and ships and laws. I'll support that, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10724	Mr. Mrkonjic has the advantage.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10725	I thank Mr. Milivojevic for his support of the laws. The remarks and amendments will be carefully considered. I certainly don't want to say that the government will adopt Serbia's decentralisation by enrolling vessels I don't know where they're already going to enroll in Belgrade. That's what he has to let me do. So much for these laws. Now I can be a little unserious, just kidding. As for my standing, I think everyone in the O.R. knows that the red color has been in my heart for years. Therefore, it has nothing to do with any ideology. Free Milosevic is still my idol and will remain for the rest of my life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10726	Replica, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10727	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know what pictures Mr Milivojevic was talking about, but I know for sure the following - these mentioned yachts were not bought when we were in power but while you were in power. That's the problem. That's the first thing. The second thing, when you talk about that channel, when you talk about Big Morava, West Moravia and Firefighter is close to Morava, and the burning benefit of that same water from Morava for drinks. What you're doing with her right now is far worse than it would have been if you'd dug that canal. You know it well and you know it well that the issue of water supply of the Fireman and all cities would be resolved upstream. When I listen to you so that some people 30, 40 years ago were running this country like you think we wouldn't have a Gerdap, the Danube wouldn't be a water river, we wouldn't have one gigawatt of electricity or 24 million kilowatts of hours a day, there wouldn't be a thermoelectric power plant in Kostolec, there wouldn't be a thermopower plant in Obrenovac, there wouldn't be a mine, there wouldn't be anything. That's what this is about. I agree, you have the right to criticise, but at least in those criticisms keep one level that corresponds to the dignity of this National Assembly. If nothing else, if you don't agree politically, at least respect your efforts while we're trying to do something for our country. Unlike some who have been in power so far, but they've tried to do something for themselves, so now we've got a lot of newspaper signs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10728	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10729	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, although the previous speaker, who called me several times, spoke directly to me, did not object, nor will I advertise the violation of article 107. Unlike him, I don't. I don't know who that painting was about on the yacht and the leader. I'm the leader of my own party and I don't have any other leaders. I have my opinion, and I don't go to my leader for him, to take my opinion. To prove to someone that I'm thinking for myself, I'd have to have this other person have the privilege of thinking for himself, and then you'd understand it best. I didn't know he was a water-flow expert. I don't know what he thinks, and here comes the law of a coupled courts, that Morava will run out of water if we connect her to the Danube. Maybe that water potential will be a little bit higher. You can't stop the water from circulating in the pooled vessels. I guess that channel would give Morava the quality of the water. I didn't know that one European was against Kruševac and central Serbia and the rest of Serbia joining up with Danube and Central Europe. It's a surprise to me. This project is not progressive. I once stood up for this project within the People's Peasants' Party. That's not even my project. That project was a profession, a science. We're just trying to carry out what no one has done before. As far as the yacht is concerned, no picture of me on my yacht. As I recall, their ministers were recently photographed on various yachts, so they argued that it wasn't theirs, it was their father-in-laws. So, if anyone has a picture with me on a yacht, let them show up and I'll resign at that point, regardless of the yacht of their party's financial director. If he shows me that kind of photograph without being mounted, I resign and I don't want to do politics anymore. I belong more to this other, robbed people. So, the one who carefully chooses bread, three days they look at it before they buy it. (President: Time. I am proud to belong to this second part, that I do not belong to this first part. If he shows me that photo, I resign. If he can't show, let him apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10730	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10731	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I respect Mr. Milivojevic as the promoter of his end. But what he should know is that even Vranjska Banja, from which I originate, does not drink water from Morava, nor does Kruševac, but from Lake Celija, and that we usually, unfortunately, have poured wastewater into West Morava. They also mentioned the SNS and whether we believe in projects and promises. Yes, of course. In these six months, since the formation of the government, most of those promises have been fulfilled. We promised a fundamental fight against crime and corruption, and it's happening. No one in Serbia speaks the opposite unless they want to tell the truth. We promised a new law on public procurement. Here in this House we voted him. We promised a stable dinar and a course. What's the course? We promised foreign direct investment. Here, there's an agreement at the door with the United Arab Emirates, with the most important investors, and yet someone has something against it. As soon as it is said, as soon as a voice is raised against such a story, they say in Serbia they are silent, whispering in Serbia. Who's whispering? Someone who is suing a daily newspaper and is seeking compensation that is the biggest in the history of journalism, not in Serbia, but in the world. What's it called? Whether she is silent about Dragan Gilas and the Democratic Party or she is silent about the government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10732	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10733	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have carefully followed what my colleagues in the ruling majority have said. Again, I underline, do not call on strategic projects from the past, because these were strategic projects that were well planned, which did not exhaust the country to the limits of biological and economic survival. If you're talking about some people buying some yachts, the first tycoon bought the first yacht in Serbia in 1998. Ask President Tomislav Nikolic – does he know the 1998 Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Nikolic? Ask him if they're the same people? Ask him, before he brings the cross, which little, little, wants to wear, which in 1999 they crucified Serbia and not him, does he know this president, Tomislav Nikolic, who is president of Serbia today? Are those the same people? Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, use your influence and ask your party chief and Prime Minister to do a DNA analysis on those two people, so let's see if they're the same people or if someone planted this man today who had nothing to do with that 1998 man. Ask your party leader if he knows or doesn't know this man today? Ask this man if he was the Deputy Prime Minister when the first tycoon bought the first yacht and when Serbia experienced its greatest collapse in its history. Trained by this experience, we trust you today with nothing. You may have taken the badge off the lapels, but the badge from the heart never comes off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10734	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10735	Chairman, I am reporting for the reason that there were three or four replicas on Mr Milivojevic's discussion. I'm not quite sure that you had enough grounds to give you the right to four replicas, because if that's how we react, then really this debate is going to turn into replicas and we're going to get away from the subject. Then we will be in a position, we from the opposition, to have every criticism that we refer to at the expense of the government, and even when we say that we will support and vote in favour of the law, we will get an insult, an insult by the MPs. I would not have reported that the deputy and the head of the parliamentary group had not discussed the same subject and, in some way, justified the insults that had been in one daily or more daily papers for days, and that they had not, as the largest opposition party, given that they had had the Minister of Information, the ruling party, all the levers of the authorities in their hands, had not offended before 2000 in an almost unrecognizable way the people who had achieved something in life, which people voted for, tried to lower the ratings and downhills in this way. They didn't respond to that, and now they're saying that this same man had the right to sue that daily newspaper. I don't think you've taken fair and correct criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10736	I'd like to answer this. I had to give the Republic, as I have now given you and Mr Milivojevic, because you have the right to speak as deputy head of the parliamentary group in response to the mention of the Democratic Party. Mr Milivojevic has the right to replicate because he is personally mentioned. Also, Mr. Babic was personally mentioned, and Mr. Arsic replicated on behalf of the SNS. So the Rules of Procedure forces me to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I can't refuse to give the right to an MP who rightly belongs to him. That's what this is about. I'm joining your appeal to return the debate slowly to the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10737	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm not going to call for a violation of the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to use the law of replicas, but Article 107. The Rules of Procedure were rudely disrespected, and the chairman had to react there, because one of the MPs asked the interior minister to establish the DNA analysis of the president of the Republic. You know what, when the cross is mentioned, everyone wears theirs, and Tomislav Nikolic and me and you, Mr Milivojevic, carry yours and no one to Serbia, while he was Tomislav Nikolic, has crucified her on the cross, but that's why you have crucified her for the past 12 years. That's why we live like this today. You can talk as much about the EU as you can while you've been in power, and you know for a fact that there are two things in the EU: corruption and human rights violations. A little violation of human rights through some elections, and as far as corruption is concerned, you should have done nothing, not personally, but those who were supposed to do it from your party. That's the age we're talking about, and that's the state's sale, and that's all those duties that this government has to owe the state to, to pay back some of the other people's debts that someone's been making irresponsiblely. You put money in your pocket, they didn't do anything else, and now it's time to lay down that political bill and lay it down. It's your cross. Defend those who did what you fought for while you were in the opposition in 1997. - 1998. (President: Time. That's what you do, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10738	Mr. Babic, I don't have the basis to give you, you didn't mention it personally. (Zoran Babic: I am mentioned as deputy president of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10739	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, part of my replica is in your reply, because the replica that appeared between Mr. Milivojevic and I, we mentioned ourselves, but in a sports spirit, in a parliamentary spirit, was the basis why I even signed up for the replica. However, with all my effort, I really couldn't understand the speech of my colleague, Veselinovic, and what he wanted with this criticism to achieve. Why did I mention the damage claim, why I mentioned Mr. Gilas, otherwise to a college colleague and a professional cook, it is only to get a prescription that in Serbia, on the one hand, property is increasing 800 times, while on the other hand the assets of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia are reduced 800 times, only that recipe. I think I'll be grateful after that. How does that work in Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10740	Mr. Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10741	I will definitely finish this round of replicas because I think we need to work on the agenda and make a contribution to Serbia, a contribution to the DS European integration. The truth is, Serbia won that candidate status during the DS government, not the SNS government, just so you know, to remember, it's not bad sometimes to remember that. So, as bad as we are in the EU, she has granted us candidate status. (Zoran Babic: Serbia has been assigned, not to you. ) Serbia, I don't know if you understand that well. When I say – to us, I don't mean DS, I don't mean LDP, I mean us, Serbia. I guess it's your Serbia, too. It's not just Serbia. It's somebody's place. Everyone's Serbia. We cannot claim the Republic of Serbia. When I say - to us, I guess in this house we all represent the Republic of Serbia. Why are you so personal? Why are you so vain? Why can't you regret so much the time you've been against the EU? Why did your badge grow so close to your heart and not your lapel? There is no need for you to discuss this with us and lecture us on the EU. We're glad that you've stepped under DS policy today, we're glad that you're from the stage, from which you watched as the above-side embassy, ran to shake hands with these ambassadors, and we're glad that you're promoters of European policy and our system of values, when I say, ours, and I'm glad that you're standing up for those postulates that you've been fighting so hard for 20 years. It's not a success, it's not us, it's not you. It is the success of an idea that in this country exceeds the value of that utopian idea, what is the Belgrade-Salun channel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10742	Thank you. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10743	The chairman came out, and I wanted to ask him on what basis he gave the word to both the deputy and the head of the parliamentary group, but I think I know why he gave them his word, because I understood that they were being replaced for six months and that they were competing who would be head of the parliamentary group. The president is probably involved in the regulation of that game, and he gives them his word on that basis. I really ask you not to bother with these other MPs and citizens of Serbia because of your game. I, Mr Babić, merely well-intentioned that it is not good, you as a deputy or head of the SNS parliamentary group, the largest parliamentary group in this House, in one unserious way using a mantra for which birds on the border are clear that it is not true, that in this way you address the party president, the largest opposition group here in parliament, or the largest opposition party in the country. I don't think that's the way to show Parliament's seriousness, to show that it's the most important thing that we're here for legislative work, to treat each other with respect, not to use terms that I really think are far from the truth, or data that's far from the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10744	Thank you. First, let me give you the name of the President of the Assembly. The president of the assembly also gave the floor to Mr Arsic and Mr Babic, as the previous speaker mentioned both, also mentioned the president of the parliamentary group and deputy president of the parliamentary group. Mr. Babic has the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10745	Thank you. Now let's get to one news that will cheer up the whole of Serbia, which will delight both owners and readers and journalists of a large daily list. You said I told the truth that Mr. Dragan Gilas's damage claim was sent to the daily newspaper "Kurir" worth a billion and 200m euros. You said it was a lie. If that's not true, does that mean that Mr. Gilas is giving up that reparation claim? Come out, say, I'm giving up, okay, you'll make all of Serbia happy. On the other hand, I agree, and I will end this circle of replicas with two things this way. Who's the boss, who's the deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group, you know exactly. What characterizes SNS is teamwork, is a collegiate spirit and I ask you, as we do not interfere with your internal turbulence, do not interfere with our internal Renaissance. One thing I'm going to tell you is, I just don't understand what DS policy is towards European integration, whether by promoting Serbia's European path to the EU, or in the amendment that you referred to the resolution on Kosovo and Metohija, when you said you needed to stop all Serbia's negotiations with the EU. Madam Chairman, please note. I know some things don't suit some colleagues, the truth doesn't often work, but please allow silence in the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10746	I ask the MPs to allow the speakers to speak and that we can all hear what they're talking about. Mr. Shain, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10747	Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask you only for one thing at a time. (President: Mr. Shane, just name a member of the Rules of Procedure? ) Article 107. You don't really have the right to own the idea of the EU. (President: Mr. Shane, and you have no right to replicate. I just want to say what it's about. (President: Please, Mr. Shane, let us all respect the dignity of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure exist so we can all stick to it. Let me just say what the injury is. They insulted me, and I just want to say why they insulted me. (President: So you started to replicate on behalf of the parliamentary group, and you have no right to do so. I don't speak on behalf of the parliamentary group, I speak as Srdjan Shin, the president of the Roma Party, the MP, because I am offended. (President: You do not have the right through the violation of the Rules of Procedure to replicate, and you are not directly mentioned in the presentations of previous speakers. I did it directly, because all of us were addressed directly by the MPs. Then, the President-in-Office, it was necessary that the moment they addressed the parliamentary group, when they addressed all of us presidents of different political parties, members of the SNS parliamentary group, then you should have made it clear to them – this is not allowed on the basis of this Rules of Procedure, to interrupt the gentleman. Since you didn't interrupt him, then we have two options. It's easier for me to have the opportunity to speak than to seek a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I'm really asking you to give me the opportunity to say one thing in a minute. If not, then I'll look for a replica because we've been addressed directly by an MP, and he has no right to do so. So, it's not the point of whether or not he mentioned it, if he's talking, and that's not allowed, I think you agree with us not to address anyone directly in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10748	Mr. Shane, okay, thank you, I understand. I won't give you a word for the replica. We're going back to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10749	In the voting day, I demand that there be a vote on the violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10750	The word is Janko Veselinović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10751	I expected to continue the debate last time, however, Mr. Boss and Mr. Deputy Chief did not allow me to do so. Mr. Granny, you didn't get me right. I was talking about the fact that you've been pointing out that someone's made a fortune 800 times, that they've increased their wealth, and that's what I've been saying that you're using unverified facts and that's not expected from one of the heads of Parliament. That's what my exposure was about. The other thing, you've been very mixed up when it comes to our intra-party turbulence, as you've called the current turbulence in SNS, and there are at all levels, and it's probably normal for one big party that has a lot of factions, which is created as it is, but these are your problems and you solve them your way. You've interfered with ours, and we've only mentioned the fact that you've agreed on who's the deputy and who's the boss and that one of you picks up the word. On this occasion, I call on us to return to the topic and not really bother the MPs with topics that are not subject to today's debate. I can see that Mr. Mrkonjic is not satisfied about this either, and that his European path will probably not be so fast if we spend time on irrelevant issues like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10752	Thank you. Mr. Stojanovic, do you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? You have no right to a replica. Please, let's hear you out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10753	I want to explain first, before I say what I'm about to say. Mr Milivojevic spoke in his first exhibition in a very pervasive sense about the SNS parliamentary club. Please listen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10754	Mr. Stojanovic, sit down, please. If you look closely at the Rules of Procedure, the right to replication on behalf of the parliamentary group has only the president, or vice president of the parliamentary group, or authorized... (Momir Stojanović, from the post: On what basis did you give the gentleman the right? ) Mr Milivojevic was given the right to replication on the basis of what was directly mentioned, that is, his exposure. Mr. Arsic has the right to a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group and I now give him my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10755	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's one problem when someone wants to talk about the SNS MP's club and the president and vice president of the Parliament Club. First you need to know one very important thing. You can't fight us, we're friends, we've known each other for a long time. You can't, don't bother, just like you're trying to show that Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic are fighting, who will be friends to the grave. I'm glad you admit you have factions in your party. Let me remind you, we had a main board the other day, 396 people, unanimous decisions. What factions are you talking about? There are no factions in the SNS or in the government, because we have a goal not to personal benefit, but an idea, and that idea is to change Serbia, to make it a more just, beautiful society, but a society where you have led us for the past 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10756	Thank you. Mr. Shain, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10757	(The emissary speaks Roma language. ) Translation of the talk: “I want to say in Roma why I want to speak on the basis of Articles 103 and 107. Rules of Procedure. You must understand that the Roma Party was with you in 2006 and that we said then that the EU has no alternative. You can't say we weren't for the EU. We now support the new majority, which is also more important to the EU than you. I ask you to state in the Parliament's voting day whether you've been working on the Rules of Procedure or not. Thank you very much."
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10758	I'm asking professional services to provide a translation of what Mr. Shane said, so we can all understand. The right to replica has Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10759	There is no need for translation, since perhaps Mr Arsic or SNS will be able to translate us, as they have put Cyrillic inscriptions on the newly-sad buses. Maybe you can translate this into Cyrillic. The truth is, as a replica, don't boast unanimity on the board. It's not always the standard. And we've had long, long unanimous decisions, including now. But what's the fact that in the DS, since you called it directly, there's a possibility for different opinions. That's what you said. So there is. We're proud of it. When decisions are made, those decisions are implemented. But that's not why you're nervous. This is not the reason for such rough qualifications as have been presented in recent days and today and is not the reason why SNS's 1991 statements, which you have inserted into a bottle on the Danube, are now being taken out in Belgrade and read on television. Don't do that. If DS is looking for a justifiable examination, why are you nervous? Why are you telling your president that during the DS, they're selling combinations that are now sold to Arabs? It wasn't during DS. It's a lie. I can say in the Assembly - that's not true, gentlemen, it's a lie. That's actually verifiable. That is no reason for you to use such harsh qualifications and say that someone is lying, that someone is talking – come, you liars, to see what is true. Let's cross those papers. There's no need to treat ourselves like that. It is not worthy of a new European SNS. I understand that your head hurts because you have two heads, so you two heads hurt, it's a lot more pain. There's no need to react like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10760	The word is Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10761	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, when I listen to my colleague from the DS, president of the DS parliamentary group, the only thing I can say is that I'm sorry he wasn't here a half hour ago, where your MPs claimed there were two Mr. Tomislav Nikolics, and we all know he was one. For your information, too, the SRS didn't even exist at the time. As for the combinations, whether they are sold at your time or otherwise, they are sold under the law your minister and member suggested, from that government, then the director of the Privatisation Agency, former Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in front of the DS. What have you done for these four years with these poor privatized enterprises? They led them to an even greater ruin to be returned to the state with debts and sold for nothing, again because of debts. That's what we're talking about. I don't have two heads, I only have one, and I use mine and her. Don't give those qualifications anymore. I was in the former party while she respected her programme promises, and that promise was that Serbia should be open to co-operation with both the east and the west. Some have given it up and therefore the party no longer exists. What you promise citizens in the elections is much stronger and greater promise and commitment than it says in your program. That counts, citizens don't know your programs, they know your promises, you cheated them, and that's why you're the opposition now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10762	Thank you. This closes the replica, indeed more, we're completely off topic, I'm just going to give the word to Mr. Kovacevic who wanted to hurt the Rules of Procedure to advertise.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10763	Madam Chairman, you just did what I would ask you to do, but I want to say this. We can't allow a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I can understand that it's done in a moment, but you're holding a session and you're letting almost half an hour of discussion completely off the table, I'd say it's not about controversy, it's about two parties arguing. I recommend, no matter what is not settled in the Rules of Procedure, when they settle and go like this, if you decide to let them, that others be my break for us, and they're going to fight as many times as they want. This really doesn't make sense. It's so far from the agenda, it's so party-opposed and exclusive. Really, if something ruins the dignity of this congregation, then that's exactly what's ruining it. I'm sorry I might be a little too sharp, but let each other figure out if there was anything in these replicas that could at least suggest that it was close to the agenda. It's not right for you to humiliate all of us in that way. We're not really interested in listening to each other's replicas, and you're forcing us to sit down and do it. Now you've done it, and you should've done it far, far before you did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10764	Thank you, you are absolutely right, Mr Kovacevic, I will make sure that this debate is conducted in accordance with the agenda and therefore I ask all Members of Parliament to return to the agenda and only to talk about what is on our agenda. The word has a folk MP, Jadranka Joksimovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10765	Thank you. Members of Rules of Procedure 106, 107, 108 and 109 have been injured. Member of the 106th, who says, Madam Chairman, that during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, there is no allowed to throw away, or interfere with speakers. I have to tell you, I really don't understand how you run this session. The gentleman from the front row of the MP club DS was onamatopheiically expressing himself with A, E, I, O, U in response to the presentation of the MPs. I haven't heard that in the National Assembly, if that's the way we're going to comment on each other's statements and that's legitimate, then we're just going to put it in the Rules of Procedure. The two-headed and bicep structures, therefore, are said by those who have brought Serbia into a position that it is really offensive to mention what they have been doing for 12 years. I don't want to look back. The President of the Republic, unlike the former President of the Republic, resigned... (President: Mrs Joksimovic, please it's not a topic... Please don't interrupt me. So don't interrupt me, I explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Don't interrupt me, I'm explaining the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I'm going to request a statement on your injury to the Rules of Procedure. I'm looking for a statement on your injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10766	Mrs Joksimovic, please, may I say, therefore, we will enter into the Rules of Procedure's Election Day. So we interrupt all the replicas on this subject. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10767	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I support the proposal for a law on state ownership and vessel registration, as well as support the initiative of my colleague Srdjan Milivojevic, who officially addressed the chairman of the Committee on Spatial Traffic Planning, Infrastructure and Telecommunications of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, since the president of the Committee here asks the question when Mr Milivojevic turned to me, I have in front of me a memo that was submitted officially at 10.45 a.m. to the Office of the National Assembly, asking the Committee to submit the following amendment in accordance with its powers. That in Article 14 instead of saying "Belgrade" to enter the word "Stalic" with an explanation that accepting the said amendment will contribute to the development of Stalac, Cicevic and central Serbia. This is exactly where I see a perfectly justified request from my colleague, given that these days we are practically bombed by the argument that a strategic project should be implemented at not only Serbia's level, but in co-operation with Macedonia, with Greece regarding the realisation of a channel that would join the Danube with the Aegean Sea. That is why I am the amendment to Article 14. The bill makes great sense, because in Article 14. The draft law has been defined which ports are the entries. Thus, for ports of enrolment for a seaboat and a seaboat in the bill of law, it is specified to be Belgrade. If this strategic project, whether there's enough water or whether we're engaged in all places to provide enough water, I don't mean allocations, I mean serious projects in terms of providing enough water for the realization of such a channel. If the joint interests of all three countries that are on the channel are reconciled, Serbia, Macedonia and Greece, if 58 translators are succeeded, which are UN experts in their own time in 1973, predict that if this were to be realised, it would take 58 translators, if all the demands of environmentalists were to be reconciled on that entire channel, and there is no reason to doubt such a thing, if we were told from the highest peak in the country and claimed that such a thing would be realised in that sense, and in this bill it is absolutely justified that the port would be registered for a seaboat and a sea yacht not Belgrade, but Stalac. Stalac is where South and West Morava connects. A place that has been present in Serbia for hundreds and hundreds of years as a place for which we are all bound in a certain way. If it is a three-accumulation project at Moravi to Stalac, it is completed at the general level and is now on the audit, which is why I believe Stalac should be the place where everyone should register, as in Belgrade, so, if it is a waterway, why not allow Stalaci. In a certain way, one part of the administrative work and all that to be done in Belgrade, but in Stalac. In that sense, if we are convinced that one of these projects can be realised, let us trust the president of the state to be able to realise, to trust all those who carry the responsible functions in this bicep government, who has not in any way put the reserve on such a single project, then I suggest that the amendment that my distinguished colleague Srdjan Milivojevic submitted be not Belgrade, but Stalac, in Article 13(3) of the register for a seaboat and a sea yacht. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10768	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) Does Minister Mrkonjic want the word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10769	As so far, I thank Mr. Mikovic for his support of the laws. I don't comment on the second part of the discussion about development projects, but finally to thank really the MPs once again, which I've always done. Today again, without a joke, I learned something new in a job that I've been doing for 50 years and I'm looking forward to discussing new development projects. I'm sure you'll invest more heat when they're really here on the agenda, so it doesn't happen like it did with Corridor 10. We've been talking about him for 20 years, and today he's in the realization phase. Always make sure that development is an extremely difficult and complex job. There must be a first step, and then a man should have patience and knowledge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10770	According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 2, 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20 of the agenda. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break. We'll be back to work at 1600 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10771	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs continue to work on the fourth item of the agenda - draft law supplementing the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in the light of the principled review of the draft law on item 4 of the agenda, in addition to the representative of Proposer Aleksandr Vukic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, and Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Zoran Djordjevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Serbiaslav Cvejic, Assistant Minister of Defence Zoran Popovic, Head of Defence and Daniela Rajkovic, Head of the Group at the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy. You've received a bill from the government. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of members of the parliamentary groups, which you have attached. You've got time in the material. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of Members of Parliament on the basis of Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. According to Article 197(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a principle search on the bill. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10772	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, I am advocating Article 27, 87, and I could do some other members. Namely, it refers to today's session, but this could also apply to all sessions in the previous period. It's about holding sessions and the way we start sessions. It's 16,40 hours. You announced a session at 4:00 p.m. This morning's session was scheduled to begin at 10.00 hours, and it started at 10:30, days and months. I think I speak for both the position and the opposition, right now in front of the DS, but I think the chairman is harshly breaking the Rules of Procedure, but above all, the reputation of the National Assembly, because it doesn't matter what message we send from here, do we gather here when we arrive, when the ministers arrive, etc. I think you need to make sure that the sessions start in time in the next period. In the previous assembly session after 15 minutes, when there were no working conditions, the session was interrupted and continued in an hour. Every day you're late for your session, we'll be reporting to the Rules of Procedure and I hope this doesn't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10773	I personally support your initiative and proposal, and I think we should respect the Rules of Procedure. I will personally try to influence compliance with the rules set out in the Rules of Procedure. This delay today is, I must say, a higher power, so please appreciate why we've been late these 45 minutes. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10774	Article 27, for your reasons, Mr. Arsenovic. What was the problem? What was the reason for more force, so we were almost 40 minutes late? If you have already defined yourself to explain the delay, then I ask you to tell this House what was the reason for the more force. I don't think you're responsible for the session being late. I think the minister of justice is responsible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10775	I don't think I can explain it to you this time. You'll get a later explanation, and then you'll be informed. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10776	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advocating Article 103(2). - The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly which has already been indicated. I really want the opposition to be nursed, to be careful with them, but there's no need to exaggerate. So if they point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then they themselves shouldn't violate it. Blasphemy towards them, I support for the reason I was once in the opposition. However, when they insist that we stick to the rules and Rules of Procedure, there is no way to advertise a consistent position twice, that is, the MP cannot point to a violation of the actions of the president of the National Assembly that has already been indicated. The previous speaker did so and thus violated the Rules of Procedure. If we want to respect some procedure, and democracy is above all a procedure, then most and minorities must be careful in violating the Rules of Procedure and showing and pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure. We should have the same or at least approximate criteria. I don't always want the blame to be for most, since the chairman explained that it was a higher force, for a higher reason. And we waited for the beginning of the session like they did. They pointed out once. That wasn't enough for them, and they pointed out another time. I'm not asking for this voice injury because I don't think the chairman has broken the Rules of Procedure, no matter what he did this failure and has allowed the same injury to be advertised twice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10777	Just a little comment. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. I think it's the right of an MP to get information. I am convinced that the present minister will give an explanation and I believe he will apologize for what happened. Personally, I believe he has the right to request an explanation, reasons, etc. Let's move on. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, I'm opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle. Does the Proposer's representative, Minister Nikola Selakovic, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10778	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the Budgetary System Act, began in 2013, the Social Insurance Fund for Military Insurance has been designated as a mandatory social security organisation, in addition to the three existing funds, namely the Republic Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Republic Health Insurance Fund and the National Employment Service. Accordingly, the collection of employees of the Social Insurance Fund should also apply the provisions of the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, which, among other things, determines the salaries of persons employed in compulsory social insurance organisations. This would require the prior adoption of a new job systematisation, then the addition of a Regulation on coefficients for the account and payment of salaries of public service employees and, finally, the change in the working-law status of employees in the Social Insurance Fund. However, this fund in terms of the organisation is an organisational unit of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, which does not carry out operations under the Ministry of Defence's jurisdiction, which is organised and functionally related to the Ministry of Defence. The result is that persons employed by the Social Insurance Fund are serving in the Serbian Army, which is professional military personnel and civilian personnel at the service in Vojsca, i.e. military officials and tenants. With regard to labour rights, including wage rights, provisions of the Law on the Serbian Army apply. Accordingly, in order to avoid any doubt as to the determination of the right to pay, allowances, fees and other receipts of members of the Serbian Army, it was necessary to specify the way it would be done, or whether it would continue under the provisions of the Law on the Serbian Army, or whether the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, applied to compulsory social security organisations, would apply. It is precisely because of this specificity of the Social Insurance Fund in relation to other compulsory social insurance organisations, it is necessary to exclude the application of the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services to the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance Insurance. The final status of military health insurance, namely this fund and its employees, will be surrounded by the adoption of health care and health insurance laws, which are known in public to be in the process of adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10779	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10780	Dear President, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Arsenovic, Minister Selakovic obviously did not hear your very nice and kind remarks saying you expected an apology from him for this 40-minute delay. I fully understand that the minister of justice does not rush to parliament much, that when he comes here, he is not eliminated like when he shares chocolates with the accused or first-degreed convicted of some of the worst crimes in The Hague tribunal. But he doesn't have to love us, the elemental order must be respected. We've done everything on our side. I checked, and the water is domestic. Minister, you're welcome to order espresso. It's Grand Coffee. I checked. So there won't be a need for you here in Parliament, in a rather strange way, to implement your policy of economic patriotism, which I think is simply rude, that a university teacher, even if the rights, knows so much about the basics of the economy. Mr. Arsenović, I'm not saying this by accident. Here we are talking about essential issues that are not the question of the State Administration Act. The minister raised the question of future fate, the future organisation of the fund's future place, that is, a system through which the health care of military insurance companies is provided. This law that we are discussing today is one, more or less, technical and extorted amendment, that is, the addition of the law that we are discussing, by emergency procedure. The law stipulates that it enters into force, practically, on the day of publication from one very, on the one hand, the prosaic, and on the other hand, an important reason for those working in that system. Today is January 23rd, and it is already a big question whether we will be able to consider the law, to adopt it, to apply it to the earnings that are being calculated, or to pay for January. In that sense, I have a lot of understanding that a change like this is necessary and that it is extorted and therefore I insist on these 40 minutes, because these 40 minutes would help us to consider this law as soon as possible. Mr Selakovic, if you have already opened the question of the future fate of that fund, you owe us answers to some basic questions. How do you, as Minister of Justice and State Administration, or the government of which you are a member, view the solution to this issue? You mentioned some of the laws that were passed or amended in 2010-2011, which is why one part of the jobs in this fund was practically removed, transferred to this classical pension fund, one part of the jobs remained, etc., and in the meantime nothing serious happened and no other system was set on any normal basis that would allow these funds to function the way it has to work, be organised, operate, operate and operate a normal fund that provides health care, or, in this other case, pension protection. That is why we are in this rather strange system where you must, from the general rules of the Law on Salary in State Authorities, practically move one category, keep that system that was characteristic of some past times, that a special system of wages, fees and other receipts of those who were engaged in different ways in armed forces, i.e. Serbia's Army, once Yugoslavia, is applied to us, and that, on the other hand, in the light of this law, you have not given us some basic parameters. How many people at this point are working in the fund we're discussing today? Does this change of law or supplementing the law mean that these people will have more profits or less profits than people who are in the classical state administration system, as you say, given the kind of jobs they do, and that's always important for the system of state administration? Does the fund we're talking about today have fewer employees, the same or more employees than he had a few years ago when he was doing other jobs or, in fact, the fund does all those jobs he's been doing, just nominally at the level of some other laws we have that kind of change in this pension part? As far as I've been able to find out, and the data on the operation of this fund is, I must say, rather intransparent. There is no law on the website, although I have not seen it, the elements requested, such as information of general importance, etc. This fund still has the classic structure it had before. He has a board of directors who, I believe, have nine members, has a supervisory board, Mr. Selakovic, who has five members and has a director. All these key executives in this system are military faces. It's not easy to get data on what their primary education is, because they have military acts. I don't have any objections to the expertise, the biography of these people's military qualities. I am absolutely certain that the future of the social security system in this or any other area is not about professional soldiers running such a system. It's a system that needs managers who can or don't have anything to do with the military system. That's a lot of respect for the Director of the Fund. The man's name is Dragan Radosevic. He's Captain Regate, but I'm not sure it's the best model for a military security system. There are still two or three addresses. If you try to inform yourself in a basic way about the rights of pensioners from the ranks of the military or those who use these types of pensions, you will find practically a very scarce number of information available from the PIO Fund. I am sure that today the fund could be more and more comprehensively spoken of by Mr Arsenovic, who has been working here in parliament than you can. On the other hand, you mentioned that amending the Health Protection Act would solve this problem. We were here a few weeks ago discussing amendments to the Health Protection Act, if I'm not mistaken. It didn't matter about that. If you expect this Parliament to put out the fire that you and your government are guilty of for seven months, probably the government that was before you because some acts and documents have not been brought in, then give us a clear timeframe – how it will be done and when it will be done. In an explanation, all of your colleagues who come before this parliament do so have one routine explanation that additional funds for the implementation of this law do not need to be provided because they are already foreseen by the financial plan for 2013. That doesn't mean, Mr. Selakovic, that money was provided. This only means that the Fund’s needs were put on paper in 2013. That's the kind of paper the PIO Fund has, but it doesn't have the money provided. It is provided by taking it out of Serbia's budget, and before that we get it by borrowing somewhere. It's the same in a certain way, of course, to a much smaller extent because this is a smaller system than this civil one, it's also true of this fund that we're talking about today. You can hardly expect blank support with all the understanding and urgency that exists without this basic information. How many people, under what conditions does he work, why do we still have a system in which there are nine board members and five members of the Supervisory Board? How many are receiving these people? What is this Social Ageing Fund that is on the extremity of both the second and third and fourth systems and all these systems you are talking about, Mr Selakovic, including the National Employment Service, and the PIO Fund is managed by the Management Board of 21 members, this fund is managed by the Management Board of nine members under very vague conditions with very vague qualifications? As far as I could see, the basic legal document that regulates the functioning of the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance is operating on the basis of legal sources from 1994 published in the Military List. They were signed by Radoje Kontic or by other competent officials. There is no more of this country, nor do we live in such a system. It's been 18 years. You say – soon there will be a Health Protection Act. That's not a good enough solution. This was done by your colleagues from different reactors many times before you and each time we face this situation. This problem will not ultimately be resolved by the fund manager who, as far as I could see, often receives parties and talks with those who have some kind of need because of the lack of a system solution. What system is this fund we're talking about, Mr. Selakovic? Now the program I'm commending has begun. This is one of the elements of the LDP programme – the liberalisation of the drug market and the possibility of concluding contracts with private pharmacies. Is that true of this system? What is the place of this system compared to the great state-run classic fund? They can no longer function such two separate systems. This may have been possible in some other conditions at some times when the army had an additional member of the presidency and was a special part of party or state structures, so it could work that way. In the meantime, everything collapsed, Mr. Selakovic. I'm not happy about it. It is your responsibility and the obligation of your government to offer some solutions. I didn't hear a word about it when you explained this law. I'll tell you something else. I think that many of these people who are military insurance people who are people in years now, who have serious problems, the vast majority of them have done their job honorably and fought for their country, have simply done either what was their job or what politicians told them, you have seriously offended most of them, Mr Selakovic, what you did last week, what you did with that little number of people, some of them are high-ranking officers or former Serbian Army officers for whom you have shown such exaltivation. I don't mind you doing your job. I think the minister of justice should do his job and visit detainees in the custody of the UN tribunal, but you are a politician. You're in charge of justice and the resources of the state administration. Both have to be, maybe it's a rough word, but I'll use it, cold without unnecessary emotion. Do you personally admire Mladic, Karadzic or anyone else's private right until the moment you became the minister of justice of this country? After that, you must take care of what kind of message you send to the public at every turn, Mr. Selakovic. These people live there under much better conditions than most of these insurance companies we're talking about today, and that's my political objection to you, Mr. Selakovic. Maybe that's funny to you. You've learned from cynics that are more fortunately than you've ever been able to achieve, but don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10781	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10782	Five minutes you spent on a couple of tens of thousands of insurance guys who didn't commit any crime or at least weren't charged with it. You spent your days supporting those who disgraced the military service.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10783	Mr. Guric, come back on the subject, please. I turned you off so you could hear me warning you to get back on the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10784	This is a topic for me. I think Mr. Selakovic has done you some kind of damage or shame by his behavior. He didn't even want to apologize for the 40-minute delay. I don't expect him to apologize for any other damage he's done. She had this state in the last meeting of the minister on steroids. Now he can have a minister at Mladic's chocolate and drink with meat, but we won't benefit from that, either.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10785	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10786	The Honorable chairman, a 107th member, has been injured, so I warn you that the previous speaker has demeaned this assembly and humiliated the citizens of Serbia when he said they live better in The Hague than those in Serbia. I think you should have warned him and stopped begging for such demagogy because we know that the LDP policy is kinky and that at no time can we accept any of their proposals or their remarks.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10787	In time I reacted, I warned Mr. Djuric to return to the topic. He finished his presentation, therefore, the goal was fulfilled. The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10788	Have you met your goal, Mr. Arsenovic? Was that the goal, so I could finish and turn off my microphone? Was that the goal? I'm advertising an article. 27, 103 and 106. Now you've allowed this gentleman who just recently took off the badge, pajamas and t-shirt, which he's worn very often in this House... Is this onematopia or isn't it one of those?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10789	Mr. Djurich... (Boyan Djuric, from the place: Can I speak? You can't talk right now. Hold on, please. If you continue with that tone, I'll give you a warning. I've tolerated you to a certain extent, but if you think you're making an argument here, insulting each other... Boyan Djuric, from the scene: Who was I insulting? I won't let you do that. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure and point to that violation of the Rules of Procedure that I've done. Don't speak to the MPs. (Bojan Djuric, from the place: I did not speak. Here you go, Mr. Guric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10790	Does that mean I have a new time now? You let Mr. Toskovic say that LDP policy is kinky. Do you think that's normal, Mr. Arsenovic? Do you think it's normal to talk like that in parliament? That it is said that the party's foreign policy has won 270,000 votes in the previous elections. They're yelling again as bravely as they usually do, from the crowd, from the back lines. During a commercial of the Rules of Procedure yesterday, I heard that one of the brave MPs of the SNS said that what I advertised to the breach of the Rules of Procedure was actually that of the people – until the priest and the goats were baptized.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10791	Mr. Djuric, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been harmed. You have the right to ask that the Assembly declare it. Is that what you're asking? Boyan Djuric, from the post: Yes. ) I agree that you are requesting that the Assembly be declared. The word is by MP Judita Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10792	Thank you, Mr. President. I know the unpleasant truth knows it hurts. When the opposition speaks uneasyly, then it is the only way to stop it from taking away the MP's word. I'm advertising an article. 110th and 27th. So, Article 110, and you're actually running this session and you're chairing it, you by article 110 have the right to express the measure of confiscation of words. The moment you shut down an MP from the electronic system, you took his word. However, in order for you to take someone’s word away, you must first meet certain conditions, or first warning, a second warning. The measure of confiscation is only the third action you are authorized to do under Rule 110 of this Rules of Procedure. Therefore, if your ears are not comfortable with what LDP MPs are talking about, it is your personal matter, but you as chairman at Parliament's session and how you should take care of the respect and application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10793	Mrs. Judith, I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure because I didn't take away the word of the People's MP. I don't want to outvote myself here, but I just turned off the microphone so we could get along. If the MP won't stop the exposure at the moment when I ask to point out he's not on the subject, then my only measure is to turn him off so he can hear me. I let him finish later. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. If you do, we can make that clear. The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10794	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly. The SNS MP used the syntax that LDP policy was kinky... (President: Mr. People's Messenger, you have no right, for this injury has already been advertised. It's not. You can look in the stenogram if it isn't. We've been keeping an eye on each other. You can take a look at the stenogram, and if that's the case, I'll apologize. You know what, Mr Arsenovicu, because of such qualifications as previous party MPs, some ministers, over 100 LDP rooms were burned.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10795	Mr. Kenan, please, you've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I am fully aware of what subject you are on and what question you have raised. I get that. If you're thinking of going on with your next line right now, I won't let you do it. Therefore, if you have anything to add about the breach of the Rules of Procedure without mentioning other parties, because you will enter the same network, the same system, then we will not come to an end. I won't let that happen. Finish the explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure on the subject you have begun, although it has already been advertised. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10796	It's not. We'll take another look at the stenogram. I explain the violation of the Rules of Procedure that speaks of the dignity of the Assembly. This dignity of the Assembly means not only the dignity of us MPs, but all LDP voters who can have problems in their private lives because of such sentences, which has been happening for the past six, seven years. You know what, Mr Arsenovic, as far as Kosovo's politics are concerned, there is no better LDP policy continuer than this SNS-backed government. What we were saying, they're doing right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10797	I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Do you insist on voting on this? (Kenan Hajdarevic, from town: Yes. ) I agree that we will vote in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10798	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to help run this Parliament's session a little bit. So I'm getting you to Article 27 who's hurt right now when you're talking. I'm quoting Article 103. So, Article 103. The Rules of Procedure say what it looks like when the MP advertises the Rules of Procedure. The MP shall indicate which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured by the action of the President and shall explain what the infringement consists of, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. You cannot interrupt a MP who was advertised by the Rules of Procedure. Only after hearing the argument can you make a statement about whether or not there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but you cannot possibly believe that this argument does not stand or you cannot point out that this breach of the Rules of Procedure has already been advertised. You can only declare this after a reasoned presentation of the MP has been completed. Therefore, I would ask you to introduce some order during the work of this Parliament and that the Rules of Procedure are really respected, indiscriminately, but as it says and how the Rules of Procedure should actually be applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10799	I disown your help in leading the congregation. I follow you closely and try to be equal to everyone by making sure, above all, of the dignity of this congregation. I don't want to expand further, and I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. We can plead the same, if you ask, about that. Are you looking? And we'll make that clear. Bojan Đuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10800	Article 27 and I'll speak for 30 seconds, Mr. Arsenovic. I'm terribly sorry you can't figure out what kind of situation we're in right now. That you can't put yourself in the skin of someone named Kenan Hajdarevic... (President: Please, which member, did I not hear you?) ) In the first sentence, I said Article 27, Mr. Arsenovic. (President: Allow me to follow the MPs and to respond adequately. You're taking that opportunity away from me. So please be careful. Here you go, Turkey. You've got time. ) My name is Bojan Djuric, and it bothers me much less when someone accuses LDP of running a treasonous policy. It's easier for me to defend myself. Kenan Hajdarevic could not study where he wanted to, because it meant that in the 1990s he was passing the train through the Strpce station towards Belgrade. You must understand that he hates to see the minister of justice take the chocolate from Ratko Mladic. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10801	Mr. Djuric, I believe you have abused the Rules of Procedure and please... (Bojan Djuric: Remind me immediately, that at least someone would benefit. Please don't throw it away. I have neither the pleasure nor the punishment nor the warning. I'm not happy about it. What do you think, I'm happy with that? I didn't. On the contrary, I want us to understand each other. Please behave like this. We're moving on to the agenda. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10802	Dear Chairman, before I speak, I ask if you'll allow me to talk about the item on the agenda? Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SPS Group will support the draft law supplementing the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services. We think it's a simple recovery of the existing state. So, if it's people who are employed in the Military Insurance Fund, if they have the status of professional members of the military, it's not illogical to exercise all rights, labour rights, and pay rights, as professional members of the military. The reason why the Military Insurance Fund is exempt from the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services is. We think it's okay at this point, and that's why we're gonna support it. But I want to say we're talking about two questions. One question the minister has already answered, and I'll just say it for a second. If I understand correctly, Mr. Minister, there's a law on health care and health insurance for military personnel, right? That's exactly the question I wanted to ask for one reason, to get to one system. I return to the beginning when I say - this is a recovery of the existing situation, because even so far these people have received salaries as professional members of the army according to the rules applicable to the defence, from the defence budget, etc. We also believe that the system should be arranged for complete and health care and health insurance, given that you have announced it, there will be an opportunity, when it is that or those laws in the procedure, to express our views on them. The second question, I just want to remind you -- what law exempts this military insurance fund from? It shall be exempt from the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, by supplementing Article 1 with this exception. That's why, Mr. Minister, I think it's a good thing that you're here today, under the government's programme, system arrangements and in the judiciary and in all areas, it's an opportunity to arrange the system in this area as well. Why do I say that? The law on salaries in state authorities and public services is a law that has already come to nonsense, it is unthinkable. From it not only now, but many are excluded in various ways. To go back, to whom does this law apply? President of the Republic, President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, members of the Government, Judges, Prosecutors, appointed and employed persons in special organisations, courts, prosecutors, ministries, defences, law enforcement authorities, etc., elected, appointed and employed persons in the bodies and organisations of territorial autonomy of local self-government, then in services financed from contributions to compulsory social security, employees in compulsory social security organisations, not to list any further. This member defines who is covered by the Law on State Salaries and Salaries in Public Services. Where is the exemption from this bill, otherwise, this fund. That law was passed in 2001. He probably had a good idea of introducing order, that there's some order in all these areas and all these jobs, so let's say, that's how one member is defined to determine wages based on coefficients and basics, not to talk about these other fees. The coefficient has been established by this law, and the basis is determined by the Government everywhere, except when it comes to the President of the Republic and its services and the National Assembly and its services, which is determined by the Administrative Committee. The order was then made, and it says - for the President of the Republic is a coefficient of 15, for the President of the National Assembly and Prime Minister 12, for ministers, judges, etc., for the Deputy Prosecutors, all in order. I suppose the criterion was complexity, responsibility, the importance of these jobs, etc. What was the intention? To bring order to someone about it. What's the problem? What this order, as found in the law, does not mean by its coefficients that it is in order and in wages. What happened in the meantime? Two things have happened – one is that new functions have been introduced, trustees, protectors, agencies, etc. What's characteristic? Whenever they were introduced, by law or by any other act, they ran away from this law. There was always a reason to get away from him, from these things prescribed here, of course, under various excuses -- to do a responsible job, independent, to be independent, etc. I don't mean to be rude, so let me say, we're buying independence and independence, etc., but when it comes to responsible work, when all this is done like this, that the President of the Republic, the President of the Assembly, the Prime Minister, that I don't list any further, I won't mention MPs, they're not doing a responsible job at all because they're somewhere away from those who do the responsible work. So that's one thing. The second thing, there's been a set of different bases and now it's a waste of what the odds are when, say, the court, the prosecution has a base of 32,178 on these coefficients. The congregation, I think, 8800. (President: Mr. Petronievich, I think you've moved away from the topic. I'm talking about changing the law that's on the agenda. (President: You will allow, however I know the matter well and trust me that you have strayed from the subject. All right, I'll be back to square one. We'll support this exception, because in a bunch of exceptions, it's relieving one condition. My call to the minister is to make a new law. This, Mr. Chairman, who is changing today, is complementary to making a new one, with only one goal – to introduce order or restore order, however you wish. So, it's not a request for higher funds, for higher salaries, it's regulated by the basics, it's about the economic situation in the country, the way other citizens in Serbia live, and there's nothing they can do, those on this list to live better than they do until others live better. This is simply necessary to bring order into the whole law, into all these functions. So, I'm done with that, we're going to support these changes, but please, Mr. Minister, I'm calling and asking you, Government, to come out with a whole new law because the one on the agenda, Article 1, is unthinkable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10803	As none of the representatives of the parliamentary groups appear anymore, I give my word in the order of the elected MPs. The first on the list is National MP Radmila Gerov. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10804	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today when we are considering amending the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services, we practically need to exempt only employees of the Social Insurance Fund from the existing law. For all other employees, the applicable law is the same as it has been so far. Dear Mr Selakovic, since you are the Minister of Justice and Minister of State Administration, I assume that you have proposed to the Government such an amendment of the law and in your presentation that you consider this necessary, so as not to change the regulation on public service staff coefficients, which is one session of the government, that the Social Insurance Fund would not change its systematization of jobs. The simplest thing was then to amend the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services. I cannot agree with you, for the simple reason this law applies to other users. I am sure that we would not agree with you that only this one change of law was necessary because the employees who work in education, those who work in culture, who work in health, in social protection, workers in ministries and workers in local self-government, since no amendments to the law have been made for them. I'm sure all those employees think that the existing law is bad. I agree with a colleague who spoke earlier, who says and believes that the existing law should be completely changed. The government's regulation and the government's conclusion lays the basis for all staff in education, health care, local self-government and here in the ministry. With the government's conclusion, the pay base increased 2% in October, and 2% will now be increased in April. When you have an inflation of 14%, you have practically reduced all these employees by 10%. The Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services defines the coefficients spoken of by the MP and the SPS. Mr. Minister, it's a public secret that no one respects it and you know it very well. What's the salary of the mayor of Novi Sad? She's 147,000 dinars. What's the salary to be Mayor of New Sad? Under this law, according to the government's regulation and conclusion, what is the basis? She can't exceed the salary of 100,000 dinars. Then where did that difference of 47,000 dinars come from? It's a public secret and we all know it in this room, you know as a minister, that local self-government doesn't respect this law. Of course, not everything, but a good number of local self-government. The law just needs to change. You could have done this by proposing to this House a number of members of the law that you would change. The regulation you mentioned 42 times has so far been amended, a regulation on coefficients for the accounting of salaries of public service employees. After 42 changes by the government, this regulation is not good even today. The regulation discriminates against all employees in the entire territory of Serbia who work in pre-school institutions. I think you should know that. Which is why only in the regulation, it is directly related to the sublegal act, related to this law, says that employees are paid in preschool institutions, means in kindergartens, that these employees have the coefficients maximum to the primary education coefficient. Then you have a situation where certain local self-governments pay off primary education coefficients, some local self-governments don't, which means that these workers who work in pre-school institutions are literally discriminated because the regulation itself doesn't regulate their coefficient. Was it difficult, Mr. Selakovic, that today when we have this on the agenda, we have a member of that law that defines their salaries? They've been downgraded, you employee, for years. I think you could have taken that as an amendment to this law. Also, this law provides for employees to have the right to 30% increase in wages from their own incomes. But you're an example now. Courts abolished their own incomes. Where would those employees have the opportunity to raise their salary like that? They don't because they practically don't have their own income. Minister, in the end, I want to tell you, because I think this law should be changed and I believe that this change that you gave us today will not be the only one because soon we will have this law back on the agenda in the procedure, I find it incorrect that you didn't say at first why you were late and why we're 40 minutes late here. I find it not correct, you are the minister of justice and state administration, not to answer Bojan Đurić, the LDP MP, to the clear questions he has asked you in his discussion, which is – how many employees do we have in the Social Insurance Fund, what are the salaries of these employees in relation to other funds and what are the salaries of members of the board of directors and supervisors? You must know that, and we expect that answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10805	Mr. Minister, before I give you my word, I have an apology to make. Representatives of the parliamentary groups said they did not hear when I called on representatives of the parliamentary groups who wanted a word. So, it's about Borislav Stefanovic and Dejan Mihajlov. This time after the minister, his words, I will give you my word that you exercise your right. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10806	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I wanted to answer the question and I have no real problem with it. I am convinced that Mr Đuric overheard the last part of my sentence when I said that the law on health care and health insurance of military insurance insurance is expected, as the other MP mentioned. It is this law that defines the management structure of the fund that Mr. Djuric has cited as controversial. What is very important is to say because of the citizens of Serbia and I am grateful for that question, it is that 102 people have worked in this fund before, that a total of 61 people are currently working in it, of which 44 civilians and a total of 17 military personnel. Also, if we're talking about funds being run by successful people who are good managers first, then this is a fund that should certainly serve as an example to other funds. Because on his forehead, they may be the most professional persons, trained for this activity, and that is the fact that this is a very stable financial fund that has transferred 1.8 billion dinars this year. It would really be good if we had other funds that operate in such a way that they are able to boast of such information. As for employees' salaries, of course it's no secret. Therefore, high-skilled employees have a total net salary of 57,860 dinars, then 40,564 dinars and 32,896 dinars, respectively. Just by passing this new health care law and the health insurance of military insurance companies, the position we discussed was disputed at this point, and I will take advantage of the opportunity to mention this to you, and to answer the question you asked about employees in preschool institutions, you probably predicted on 31 December 2012, the government amended the regulation and this change of scope and employees of preschool institutions that were covered this time. So they're not excluded from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10807	It's Dejan Michael's word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10808	I have no problem in supporting your departure to The Hague and visiting our Serbian citizens who have been accused and those who have been first-degreed before The Hague tribunal, and I simply do not think it is a shame or anything else, but it is the right and obligation of every government to assist them in these proceedings, in order to make their verdicts less, not that we are here before the UN tribunal. Simply, that's one suggestion, one reference to the subject, and we're going back to this bill. We have an understanding of this amendment to the law, given that it applies, that it is short for only one member and applies only to the employees of this fund, i.e. their subjugation under one special regime under which all other employees in the Ministry of Defence, i.e. in the Army. It's something that's perfectly acceptable for us to have these people who work and run that fund, and now we've heard extremely positively, under that regime. My questions were, and you partially answered them, how many employees it is, and that's a small number of employees and their earnings are more than modest, from what we've heard, as well as from the highest number of employees in the state administration. It is certainly something that must be the subject of some of the next session of the Assembly, where it is simply necessary to consider the possibility of earning all employees in the state administration in line with the cost of living, the growth of living standards, and at all allowing citizens to survive these difficult times. We heard how much money there was in that fund. What we're interested in at the DSS, and that's what we're going to do with military pensioners' lawsuits for a period when they're not in their 100% billing rate? I think it's one period from 2004 to 2007 or 2008. There's a lot of lawsuits. Some are just and some will follow, and that is a large amount of funds. Is the way these commitments will be settled and will this fund be able to handle it or will it be broken down into the Republic of Serbia, or the budget of the Republic of Serbia, public debt, or whatever way you plan to settle it, since the first charges will come very quickly, if they have not already been? We as a state and as a fund must be prepared with a concrete solution to the situation. It is simply somehow and wrong for all of us that our army is not stronger, which is not better equipped and that the material position of our army members is not better, which would give us all more security and simply talk about the state of the country. When the army is stronger and this fund is fuller and the state is more stable, safer and able to preserve its sovereignty and territorial integrity. We as DSS, of course, will always support everything that strengthens the military, which strengthens the simple position of military personnel and all employees in the Ministry of Defense. We believe that this will be one of the priorities and should be one of the priorities in the work of this government. Not to be the first priority of the army of European integration or joining various missions in the EU and others, but to make it a priority for the military to strengthen Serbia's own military and its position, to strengthen the military industry, to train the Serbian Army to strengthen through the military industry itself, so that employees and military personnel and those contracted with the military are satisfied with their position. By doing so, our country will be more stable and will be able to respond more quickly and better to the challenges ahead. To go back to specifically this law. This law is mature for serious changes and you yourself could see it during these changes. They mentioned various colleagues who spoke before me about what needs to be changed. So the time we live in is that the state's assets are being arched through profits in many ways, that they don't all have the same foundations. So if various state agencies are making state money, they do not generate revenue because they are given to have some of the resources of this country. These agencies earn 800, 900 thousand dinars a month, 500-600, where the average earnings are over 200-300 thousand dinars. Simply, the state of Serbia must also take care of those people who earn these amounts and the position of those who hold this state, who make sure that this state works. It's all those in the state's apparatus in the army who live out of the 32, 33 grand, how much they get the employees they have the most, with the medium professional equipment. It's easy with 200, 300, 400,000 dinars to live, but this one with 32,000 dinars is hard. They're mentioned here in preschool. All over Belgrade's preschool services have been accumulated, and in all other cities, they have mostly been accumulated. We know that the prices of communals are rising and simply through the prism of all these living costs of employees and in this fund and in other state services are very small, inadequate. Simply, the state through a comprehensive solution, and the government must propose that these profits be respected as well. The president of the city municipality, the Belgrade city municipality, cannot have a higher salary than the president of the state. Something's not normal. So that's all state money, state resources, and that's what we need to put an end to. I expect you to have the strength and the willingness to put an end to such behaviour and to allow this country to start with justice and responsibility to function and to dispose of its means. That's what we expect of you. These are objections to which the previous government was deaf. I hope you will have more hearing about reforming the state administration, which is contrary to the government's declared policy, because the government's policy is to say that while the crisis is going on, there is no rationalisation of the number of employees, or there is no layoff of employees. This is one of the government's policy principles when adopting the budget, which is directly contrary to state administration reform. The reform of the state administration implies rationalisation. By reducing the number of agencies, we have not reduced the number of employees, as these employees have been redeployed to other agencies and ministries. We expect you to come up with a plan to reform the state administration, streamline the number of employees and to tell us and to pass a new law on coefficients and on the position of employees in all state bodies, including municipalities and large agencies and public enterprises which are exceptions and which spend more funds than all other employees in the state administration, which is totally unacceptable for us at the moment, because we all need to share the burden of the crisis that we are in, not just some, the widest layer of those who live and work in Serbia, and that a narrow circle of people who are employed by various agencies, arching state resources, and thus extremely irresponsiblely behave in this situation. As far as we are concerned, we will support all government intentions that are heading towards improving the standard of living of management employees and expect the government to come out with a comprehensive solution as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10809	Thank you. The word is Mr. Djuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10810	Replication to the presentation or response of Minister Selakovic, who was partly addressed to me. In the same replica, I will respond to what Mr. Michael said. I think Mr. Michael's wrong...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10811	Excuse me, Mr. Djuric, whose exposure are you replicating?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10812	The minister answered the questions I asked him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10813	I understand you've replicated Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10814	Thank you, Mr. Selakovic, for your answers, but they are not complete. I've asked a few more questions. One is the comparison of those profits that you spoke of, which certainly are not great for even the Serb opportunities or the complexity of the jobs that these people do. So, would they, if they were to apply this standard law, have a higher or lower salary? I think it's one of the more important issues, not because of the amount that would be obtained or that would be lost in one and the other variant, but simply because... You know that for the state administration, that feeling within it, that they're all equal, that they're all treated equally. It's always important. The second question is the reception of board members. I didn't hear the answer to that question. Third thing, you mentioned amendments to the Health Protection Act. You've got another problem in that galamatias that exists with this kind of insurance. It is a system of health institutions which are partly financed through this system, partly funded from the budget, are partly on the market through commercial services, such as VMA and this system is on a longer track completely unsustainable if it is so arranged. Mr. Mihajlovic at one point made a reference to what I was talking about. I did not object to the minister leaving and visiting Serbian citizens who are prisoners in The Hague. On the contrary, I made it clear that I think it's normal. I only demanded a normal approach, respect for the law, respect for the decency and avoidance of the situation in which the minister is enthusiastically speaking to some who are not Serbian citizens, as is the case with Radovan Karadzic, and not with all Serbian citizens. It was my only objection.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10815	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10816	You crossed me into Mihajlovic. Now it's taken a swing. Of course, I'm kidding. I simply feel that the minister should and regret that this was not the case in the previous government, that ministers and ministers visited and visited those citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Republika Srpska who were indicted in The Hague because we had to help there, as other countries helped Naser Oric and Gotovina, Markac, Haradinaj and Thaci not to be convicted and did everything, paid lobbyist groups, paid not to be convicted because it would compromise actions and the whole state, and we all know that they shot at the back of people from Krajina, the columns of refugees who went and we all know all the stories from there and they somehow got away with no convictions. I believe that the state of Serbia should have done everything possible to avoid this and I find it wrong to adopt the Srebrenica Declaration in which we are talking about genocide, while Srebrenica is still being debated in the UN tribunal itself. So these are things that we disagree on, and I simply understand that this is your policy, and this is our policy and we will probably never agree on it, but as a representative of one party, one policy, I support the departure of ministers from the government of the Republic of Serbia to The Hague tribunal and supporting those who defend themselves there and who defend themselves as members of Serbia's armies, whether the Republika Srpska armies in front of that court. It's just my personal attitude and the party I belong to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10817	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10818	I had just overlooked one more thing, and I apologized for not apologizing at first for the delay, and I was late because I was the minister in charge of the affairs of the judiciary, according to the position and member of the High Court Council. We had a session of the High Court Council, so that's why I didn't come at 4:00 p.m., although I was told that this session I was supposed to be speaking at would be the next day, so I got that notice during the day. I hope you'll accept my apology and apology for not saying so at first. I still owe you some information for asking that question, and I appreciate you asking it for the citizens of Serbia, so they know exactly what it is. As for the members of the Management and Supervisory Board of the Fund, as well as the committees working under the Fund, that number has been halved. That's the first piece of information. The second is that the reduced incomes of those members are so high that some five million dinars have been saved on an annual basis. Compared to the earnings of members of other funds' boards of directors and supervisory boards, this is a convincing lowest profit. They averaged about 10,000 dinars, and then they decreased by another 20%, unlike other funds, where they ranged from 36,000 to 40,000 dinars. Yes, I would agree with the conclusion that a number of MPs have spoken, which is that it is really necessary to pass a new law and make a serious effort on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10819	On what basis are you answering, Mr. Guric?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10820	Replica to Mr. Selakovic. I agree with Mr. Michael, and there's no need...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10821	I won't allow you a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10822	We're talking about the law... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10823	I won't let you. You have no right. Mrs Popovic, on what grounds are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10824	I'm reporting in order.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10825	Wait, first he has the word Mr. Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10826	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is good that Minister Selakovic apologized to the MPs, but thus showed one problem that exists, not with you personally, but we have been explained that it is a higher power. As a kind of lawyer, you know what a higher power is. I wouldn't define what you said as a higher power, but it's about the next force. It is the force of inadequate response by the Assembly or the Assembly services to inform the minister when the session is held. So here we were convinced that it was a higher power. Some things are unnecessarily trying to camouflage. It's clear to us where you've been and why you've been, but let's say it out loud in this assembly. By the way, I think it's nice of you to apologize for the delay. Otherwise, this law is another liquid of the previous government and all that good, and there were good things that the previous government did, and that's why I think it's normal that we're going to support the law that we've been presented in this form. Since pension insurance operations have been separated from the competence of the Fund for Social Insurance of Military Insurance, the regulation and that not all necessary regulations and acts in the work of the account fund, payment of salaries, remuneration and other remuneration of staff in the Fund and professional members of the military have been carried out on the basis of solutions made under the Rules of Payments and other monetary incomes of 2011. This was paid out of the funding budget for the financing, which was provided under the defence ministry's 2012 budget. The proposed solution ensures that employees of the Fund who have the status of a professional member of the Serbian Army, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Serbian Army, continue to exercise their labour rights and with regard to personal incomes in the same way as in 2012, on the burden of funds provided in the Fund's financial plan for, therefore, the social security of military insurance for 2013. So, my question is the following ministers – in which the difference in the exercise of the rights of staff in the Fund in 2013, compared to 2012, and whether the funding of the budget intended to finance defence expenditure in 2012, is identical with the funds provided in the Financial Plan of the Social Insurance Fund for military insurance for 2013. And this is a question that practically exhausts any further discussion of this bill, with this ultimately being that I have to say that the DS will, of course, support this law, but also, since we cannot ignore the satisfaction that you are here today, to remind you that, under the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, ministers are required every three months to submit a report to the committee in charge. At this point, I don't have the exact information if you've fulfilled that obligation, but I'm taking advantage of the opportunity to look at you live like this, to ask you to do it as soon as possible, as far as the other ministers are concerned. What I know for sure is that the high percentage of ministers in the government have avoided this obligation. So I believe that we must see each other much more often and that we as MPs, within the board of directors, know what you are doing specifically through the form of your reports. I remind you that by taking over a very responsible ministry in the government, you promised the citizens of Serbia, primarily a very serious shift in judicial reform or...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10827	I ask Mr. Stefanovic to return to the topic. Please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10828	Okay. So I have to ask the minister, when we have already received this privilege of talking to him, to answer the question, therefore, given that it concerns the much broader activities the ministry is dealing with. I asked the government, I am not responsible for abolishing the court in Kosovo Mitrovica through the reform of the network of courts. I'd also like you to answer that now, is that correct? Also to hear from you in which direction you will appear, at least in some form, on the board of directors and report on everything you do, so that we as citizens and MPs do not assess your motivation, emotionalally, and any other relationship with some organisations that should not exist in our audience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10829	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10830	Injury of Article 27. Rules of Procedure, you did it to Mr. Arsenovic. You've misjudged it completely. I think during your professional career, your job was to assess threats and risks. This time you misjudged it completely. I asked a question, Minister, which I need to know that we've moved on. The minister gave me an answer. The most normal thing is to pick up the line and keep plowing about it. That's what I'd like to finish. My intention was to compromise with the minister whether he felt that these fees of 10 or 8 thousand dinars were enough, were they motivated enough for these people to do the job of managing such an important fund, in the most optimistic economic way. Is it in the interest of insurance companies who are in economic terms the owner of the fund, is it so, Mr Selakovic? That was my intention to Mr Arsenovic, and I don't think we would waste a lot of time, and to help those who are insurance workers, I would say in some way to you and don't worry, I hope that this rule of military-medical centres won't be changed, that the greater the act, the more the advantage of being accepted, which seems to me, and I don't have a problem against it, even though I'm a civilian, which you would say.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10831	Now I'm pretty sure I was right not to give you a replica. The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10832	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Assembly, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly aware that the ruling coalition does not like to discuss unpleasant issues and I am fully aware that it does not like to hear criticism on its own work and on its own account coming from opposition lines. It is clear to me that the ruling coalition will use every possible means to prevent the opposition from saying what should be said in a political sense here in this home. They're facts and that's our reality. However, we from the opposition must point out what is wrong with the policy currently being conducted in this country and that cannot prevent us from any chairman, not one president of the Parliament who abuses the Rules of Procedure. For this reason, I have been prepared to help you, and I have quoted certain members of the Rules of Procedure, which indicate how the Rules of Procedure should be applied. This is where I stop as far as the Rules of Procedure and everything that's been going on during today's debate, in the afternoon and in this afternoon. The topic today is the salary of those people who are employed in the fund and the subject is what kind of health insurance is for military insurance. We simply cannot discuss this law unless we put this law into the context of a general policy concerning both the fund itself and the employees and military insurance companies. This policy concerns, among other things, other people who are employed by state authorities. I'm taking the opportunity, what's the minister of justice here today, so I'd ask him what's going on so seriously in the judiciary that the salaries of civil servants, or court officials, are reduced? Therefore, those fees or additions of three thousand dinars are lifted, although these court officials already have small salaries and the range between the official salary and the judge is one to eight. You'll let me, it's a huge range. Therefore, if we, if one of these laws on the agenda today, are to bring about an emergency procedure, so as not to endanger the existence of employees in the fund, I think I should also talk about what is happening and what is the relationship of this ministry to judicial officials, who carry a huge burden of the work of the judicial authorities and at all judicial reform. Do you really think that you will improve this reform by definitely questioning the existence of those people who work in courts? That's one question that's very important to discuss today. I would like to ask you another question, Mr Selakovic, how do you think your fellow ministers and Mr Sulejman Ugljanin or Mr Rasim Ljajic felt when they saw you sharing chocolates with Hague indictees? It is simple for them, I suppose very offensive, given what their countrymen have suffered in Srebrenica, and Mr. Ratko Mladic has been involved in this story.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10833	I want to take my word for it, and you won't stop. I'm forced to turn off your speaker so you can hear me. You can abuse the Rules of Procedure as much as you want, but I won't let you do it, and try to abuse it. There is no topic here now, nor the Hague tribunal, nor the convicts. Here is a simple law that needs to solve a particular problem in this society. You can express your political platform by criticising this law and offering better solutions. With that, you'll get points. Now, if you think you're turning off the topic, jumping to The Hague and back, I won't let you do it. Then discuss the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10834	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll keep going. When there is a minister of justice in parliament, we must take advantage of the opportunity and ask for certain notifications, and even if it is a subject that may not be of particular interest to Mr. Minister, in terms of his jurisdiction, but we cannot miss that opportunity and I would ask him – how could he not have adequately responded to the show "The impression of the week", when the man next to him, extremist... [[off microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10835	Mrs. Judith, I suggest you give up, so I don't punish you. If you have nothing to say about the law specifically, then please give up. The fact that the minister of justice is here right now, he's here on a specific matter, and I'm not going to let you solve the minister, not just justice, but any minister on any other matter, but for what he came here for. You can use your right through parliamentary matters, but please stick to the agenda. It's my duty to provide that. Please return to the agenda so I don't apply the sanctions. I wouldn't want you to be my first victim. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I could now report for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this is Article 107, since you have injured the dignity of this assembly when you have allowed it, and have not warned certain MPs who have not only touched it, it is their legitimate right to approve of your actions, but they have made noises, made sounds that in no way have contributed to any quality discussion and confirmed that you have done the right thing, chairing this session. Again, I would have to point out the fact that when a minister of justice appears in parliament, we have to use it and we have to use it and ask him for more concrete facts concerning the work of that ministry. As soon as Mr. Justice Minister has been given the opportunity to represent this law which is on the agenda, we assume that this law is in his jurisdiction and not only the law, but everything that requires the presentation of this law, listening to MPs when they discuss, answering the question of MPs and simply, participating in the discussion. So each of us can individually approach a political discussion of one law, which is a legitimate right, and you can't deny it to us. It is not our fault that the work of this Parliament is not concrete and clear political issues, concrete and clear problems, but rather such laws as are the subject of the debate of this extraordinary session. Where are we going to discuss the most serious issues, the burning problems, if we can't discuss the laws? This is what I end up with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10837	I'm just going to remind you of article 106, first sentence - the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the debate is being held. It applies to me and to you, to the minister, to everyone present in this room. You can't afford to jump off the subject and I won't let you. Thank you for finishing your debate. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, first Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10838	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues, I think this is in addition to five warnings of procedurals, the quorants are not giving up at all. I think it's a violation of dignity to be warned five times and to constantly potentiate the chocolates, the Hague, whether it's fascinated by the image of the minister or something else. I really don't think we have to listen to it on this many occasions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10839	You didn't say any members. According to the Rules of Procedure, Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10840	I hope you solved it there in Chačka, I think, and your problems with boards of directors and non-payment of taxes. Article 106, Mr Arsenovic, it's a good thing the minister didn't warn you about using the foreign word. You could've said it in Serbian -- the prosecutor's office, instead of the curulant. Mr Arsenović, Article 106, except for the attitude 1 you have quoted, has an attitude 2 that says that no one can interrupt the speaker, nor warn him, except the president of the National Assembly, and says, in the cases provided for by this Rules of Procedure. When you interrupt MPs, then you must strictly respect the procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure and some of the customs established here. It's not usual for you to do it five times during exposure, to usually speak longer than the speaker used to say, to steal time and then return time from the beginning. I'm telling you on behalf of the LDP, don't be afraid to decide whether or not you're going to punish or not, and don't be concerned if it's a woman or not. I offered you half an hour ago to punish me, not to talk about those male-female views of the world. Mrs. Kovac, I must say, showed much more courage and courage when she endured the attack this morning by the ruling coalition. You obviously couldn't do it, and that's why you're acting like it in the afternoon part of the session. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10841	I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. What I needed to explain to someone is my right, and it's my duty to explain to everyone why I don't feel that the Rules of Procedure has been broken. Whether I punish someone or not, it's also my personal right and I'll use it. I don't separate MPs here by female or male sex, but I'm going to assess whether there's a limit to the measure, and then I'm going to give a warning. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10842	Mr. Vice President, the 107th member says he is not allowed to address the MP personally, so I would like to warn my colleague that we will solve problems with the board of directors, not to worry about the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10843	The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10844	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this bill, although it is short, is very important and it is certainly two major areas. It touches the area of the state administration and touches the territory of the Republika Srpska Army. When we talk about this bill, we can't help but touch exactly the questions that come up in both areas, because they and how they relate to the status of professional military personnel on the opportunities that exist in individual funds that they have to address certain rights of members of professional military personnel. Also, since it is a law regarding wages in state authorities, to discuss both the state of government and, in general, government plans concerning state administration. Since Minister Selakovic, in addition to the judiciary, is unfortunately a priority now, because the legacy he has found and which he has been left with is extremely difficult and complex, he put the priority in the judiciary and resolving the problems in the judiciary. I think it would have to be urgent since the regular session of the National Assembly, to address the problems of the state administration, and that is certainly the case for salaries in state authorities and public services. As far as this very text of the law is concerned, it is not controversial, it is of a technical nature and we believe that, normally, it is in agreement with the Law on the Army of the Republic of Serbia that professional military persons, just as defined by law, are making their salaries, and in that sense, intervention in the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services was necessary. However, salaries in state authorities and public services, which is an area of state administration which is a very important topic and I would remind you, Mr. Minister, that in the previous period no system law, except for the Law on Administrative Disputes, which I do not know from whom more challenged, was brought to the National Assembly in the previous term. All that was defined by law, the State Administration Reform Strategy in 2005, was not realised in the mandate of the previous government. A good part of these laws, which have been passed, concerning the Law on Civil Servants, the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and a series of other regulations, were passed in the period until 2008. The most important problem we have also talked about and what is important here is the issue of the professionalisation of state administration, depoliticalisation and what is also important to us – are individual laws that have been passed in the National Assembly? This is one law that is very important for the Law of Payments in State Authorities, in fact, two laws, one concerning the maximum number of employees in the Republic administration, and the other concerning the maximum number of employees in local self-government. We've had a lot of doubts about this law. That law is not respected at all. No one said anything about him by the government. Under that law, or the need to apply, profits are paid in public authorities and public services. What about those laws? Did the new government find any reports on this? That's what we're very interested in. What criteria were selected? Did some people under that law, did they stop working, why did they stop, and if there were lawsuits about it? That law was passed by the National Assembly. Mr. Minister, what is also important and about pay is the application of the Law on civil servants. They receive salaries under this law. You know that well, because you run the state administration sector, that the competitions under that law are not over. The previous government has continuously put that off. I expect that you, as minister, are now initiating that all competitions are completed and that persons in positions, specifically ministerial assistants, will be elected to the competitions. So we'll send a message that we've taken the depolitical issue seriously, starting with the government itself. I believe that's what they're going to do. The adoption of a new law on administrative procedure, amendments to the Law on administrative disputes, professionalisation, i.e. The implementation of competitions in all ministries and the question of the rationalisation of the state administration is also something about the Law on Salary in State Authorities. I believe it's one job that's been waiting for us, and that's where we expect changes, because that wasn't in the previous period. In that sense, the state administration is in a very difficult situation. Salary spreads. That's what my colleague, Dean Michael, was talking about. They're big. It is unacceptable that certain public services, in certain agencies, are paid hugely, and that individual persons, we have had several amendments to this law, have very low incomes and are doing a lot of responsible jobs in ministries and other government services. There's a big job ahead of you. I suggest that, if I may be so modest as to suggest two first steps, which are to carry out all the competitions, that they be named as assistants based on competition and the adoption of the administrative procedure law. I believe we'll be serious about the state then, because without a strong state, a strong state administration, we can't do any serious work, no goal set by the executive and government to realize. Our parliamentary group will follow this closely, and we will always respond when these laws are on the agenda, because we are interested in this, and we will certainly come to a new change or a new law on salaries in state bodies. I remind you, Mr. Minister, of another missed matter in the previous period, which is the adoption of a law that regulates working relations in local self-government. And it's a job that hasn't been completed in the previous period, and it also concerns wages in state authorities. Since this is a law concerning professional military personnel, the position of our parliamentary group has always been clear and this is a subject that cannot be avoided. The issue of the army has always been clear, as the DSS advocates a strong, organised and well-paid Serbian Army. It is the best guarantee of removing all risks and threats from our country, protecting territorial integrity and implementing all three missions defined by the Serbian Army's strategic documents. What we have said on several occasions, as regards the position of professional military personnel, is that regardless of the problems that exist in the Republic of Serbia's budget, the budget for the Ministry of Defence and for the Army must be increased. We're not saying this by heart. In the previous period, and now I see announcements from the Deputy Prime Minister, a large number of serious investment and serious business has been made by the military and has secured the inflow of funds into the budget. The Department of Defense budget was either stagnant or down. If the Ministry of Defence has made such an effort, and is now making it into new investments, it is really impossible that the military that needs it, the modernisation it needs, because it needs the equipment to realize and raise the level of its operational capabilities, needs to have a higher budget. We all know what the problems are about equipment, about other means, that I don't now count and burden all of you, from fighter planes and everything else. In that sense, I believe that the policy that is now in play, which is a confirmation of military neutrality policy, because in the previous period we had politics, we can say one-sided path to NATO, now military neutrality policy is something that is confirmed. The other day, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister said Serbia will use both NATO and Russian standards to increase its ability to export and produce and thus conquer new markets. We couldn't hear it in the past. It's a new policy and the DSS has talked about it in the previous period and we support that policy. Therefore, Mr. Minister, we expect you to focus seriously on this issue of state administration, in addition to all these problems and solving these problems and the system laws that follow us from the area of justice. The topic is quite derelict and legislative activity is quite devoid, and, of course, military work, to strengthen the Republic of Serbia's army, is being improved. Today, we expected that there would be a Deputy Prime Minister here, to ask a few questions concerning the professionalisation of the military, whether it was good, whether it should have been thought about it, that Serbia was thinking as a military neutral state, having experience that some military neutral states are now seriously confirming their military neutrality, as the other day was the case at a referendum in Austria, where the government initiated the abolition of mandatory service, and the citizens said they wanted it. So these are some things that are related to the military and this law is about the military. Of course, when it comes to these systemic matters, and it concerns professional military persons, their salaries and their positions, we want to touch all these topics and talk about them, and all these activities will be monitored in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10845	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10846	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry that Mr. Alexander Vukic, in the O.R., is not the real Prime Minister, Mr. Alexander Vukic, as defence minister, to explain this law. I like the government's representatives to praise efforts, work and legislative activity, reforms implemented by the DS at the beginning of each of their presentations. That's what I like to hear. That's what citizens like to hear. It is good to continue the continuity of these activities, because this reform we have carried out, which some have criticised when they were in opposition, are now practically implemented by that policy, these decisions, and measures, and it is good for the military as one institution that enjoys the great trust of the citizens of this country. It's good for this government, too. It's good for all of you, but it's best for Serbia and all its citizens. On the other hand, I don't like it when you're pushed like a girl for everyone in this room. Although it is better to be here more as a minister and less as a lawyer of extreme organizations because it is good for Serbia, and perhaps not only for these extreme organisations. When we talk about the topic on the agenda today, we absolutely support everything that strengthens security capacities and regulates some military security relations, which does not violate the RS budget, but we would like this concern, this social responsibility that you show for the reason when it comes to the military, show your employees and show that care and people who work in kindergartens because during the course of this session I was called by citizens, about eight thousand people who work in kindergartens are left without much of their salaries. It's about the poorest citizens, especially single mothers. I'm sorry that as long as this session is going on, there's no public security in the work because we don't have television coverage. More important is the red star water polo game. I understand the love of the Red Star, but it might be important for the citizens of Serbia to hear some of our discussions. So I will be forced to shorten my discussion because I do not like to go on a midnight basis and have Serbian citizens waiting midnight to hear what we in the opposition have to say? I must support you in all efforts to carry out further military reform. I apologize for not welcoming the representatives of this institution who are in this room, but I am very pleased that you continue that reform course which is in favour of Serbia that started DS, to see the correctness of that policy, to follow it, and it is good that you had some criticism when you were in opposition. It was primarily to please the voters and to vote for you, but when you take responsibility you see how hard it is to work and how well the DS has reformed the defence and security sector of this country. At the end of your presentation, I hope you will respect, above all, Mr. Chairman, the objections of the DS people and that at least in the morning when there are no surprises, the unforeseen circumstances will begin the sessions as ordered by the Rules of Procedure at 10.00. We from the opposition, from the DS are ready and orni to work. Please respect that business provision and I believe your promise. At least I know you as a serious man who keeps his promises and that the session really begins on time, at least at 10.00 p.m. when there are no unforeseen circumstances, when you know what's on the agenda and who explains the law in front of the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10847	The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10848	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what do you say? This is an ordinary addition to the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, which regulates the monetary receipts of one organisational continent of the Ministry of Defence, and on an arm's lengthy deadline until the adoption of a comprehensive law on health protection and insurance of military insurance, which has caused so much politics. Sometimes I wonder what we're talking about and what's on the agenda. I think the Honorable Mr. Minister has received more questions from many areas and at least from what is on the agenda. This supplement, which I have said, has been entrusted to the adoption of a comprehensive law on health care and insurance of military insurance, places one number of military members, specifically employed by the Social Insurance Fund of military insurance companies in a level playing field with other members of the military. I know that many who have not served military time, and have not been in contact with military insurance, are not known specificities of the Social Insurance Fund, but would tell them that this fund is more specific than this ordinary fund, let's say the Civilian Fund for PIO. Exactly because the jobs of the Department of Defense and the military are a little specific. You know that, Mr. Chairman. There have been objections here about funding planning. The Ministry of Defence and the military is particularly involved in one of the most serious institutions that is thoroughly planning all its activities in due time, including the financial plan and funding of all the defence ministry's organisational units and the Social Insurance Fund. Half of 2012 was planned for 2013. In the meantime, in this House, we passed the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, and therefore it was necessary for this transition to the adoption of this law to be adequately complemented. As far as the boards of directors and supervisors are concerned, Mr Đurić, the board of directors and supervisors at the Social Insurance Fund of Military Insurance are made up of people who are already working at the Social Security Fund of Military Insurance. I had information that these people, both in the board of directors and in the supervisory board, were not particularly paid, and the minister pointed out here that their incomes of 10,000 dinars were much lower than the boards of directors and supervisors in other public enterprises. There have been objections to the long presence of legislation in this area, and 18 years have been mentioned. Many legislative regulations at the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army for those who know this matter better have a long-term fact and do not change so easily because of the specificity of an organisation such as the military or the Ministry of Defence. Therefore, this remark cannot stand. The next observation is that military insurance companies have serious problems due to poor work by the Social Insurance Fund. I don't know who you're referring to. You're probably referring to the unpaid war logs of those who participated in the wars of the 1990s, and you're probably referring to the lack of compliance with the increase in pensions that previous governments... It's 11.6% that tortures many. This is the problem of disrespecting the legal regulations of previous governments and not of these governments, and therefore the military insurance companies have come into such a position that they now, through the lawsuits and judgments of the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg, receive litigation and now, on one and another basis, this country must find funds to pay off these debts. I would like to thank Mr. Minister for thinking equally of every citizen of this republic, as well as of citizens who have been indicted before the International Criminal Tribunal, and I do not think he is a lawyer, as some say, on the right hand or on the left. He's a real lawyer for state-of-the-art, national...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10849	Mr. Stojanovic, don't open the subject now. Stick to the agenda, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10850	Since you, a respected senior colleague, remind me, I, as a disciplined soldier, will complete my discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10851	Thank you. Bojan Djuric, the replica, right?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10852	We didn't understand each other, Mr. Stojanovic. I, like you, don't think members of the Management Board, those who manage the Fund, should have so little compensation. I think it should be a professional management that will be highly paid so that it can ensure that the Fund works as well as possible. That's why I don't agree with you that it's natural for it to be someone who's already employed in the structures of the military. Of course I agree with you that there are different specificities of the military organization, but there are no serious specificities in this system, because then you could also extract specificity for each group or interest in this country. So, the Fund's job is to make the best use of the funds it collects from insurance companies or other ways, because funds in the modern age have to make revenue in other ways. What is now the second era, which is 2013, is one of the reasons for my remark that the 1994 regulations cannot be regulated in the most optimal way to regulate the functioning of this system. Of course I didn't charge the fund and the ones that work in it. I've accused, like you, of making bad decisions from the state authorities. I hope you're not putting me in charge of something the government did. In this area, I was more critical than your party, and you're in a coalition with most of the parties that made up the then government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10853	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10854	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will certainly uphold this law. He is a legal entity, a mandatory social security organisation where military insurance rights are exercised and health insurance funds are provided. Employees in that social security fund of military officials without this law would have problems with wages, fees and other benefits they wouldn't get if we didn't adopt this law today. Of course, there are various traumas and various military insurance companies who have suffered, among other things, in the 1990s. Of course, this fund provides protection to that kind of insurance company, so we heard here who couldn't get through, and I think this fund provides services to health insurance and military insurance and to those who went through Voluntary, who went through Tuzla, and we all know how they went. There were a lot of dead people. I'm afraid there are a lot of people with disabilities, and this social security fund of military contractors is looking out for the insurance of those injured military taxpayers at the time who only wanted to go through Tuzla, just to get to their families, just to get to their homes. So much for those who were 19 at the time who suffered because no one asked them if they wanted to study, whether they wanted to go through Voluntary, whether they wanted to go through Tuzla. They simply suffered only because they found themselves in that place in a moment that was very busy for the premises of the former Yugoslavia. Today, the fund is most likely looking after the security of those faces. It's for all praise. It was a little offensive for us here to object that someone couldn't get through when he was studying somewhere. It's really tragic, but we need to keep in mind the other side and that we can be hit, because we have our own victims, we have our own dead, we have our wounded. I don't want anything bad to anyone, and I don't think it's any political party's fault because someone in my family, some of my friends, some of them who died in Dobrovoljak, some of them who got hurt in passing a military column in Tuzla, I don't think it happened because of some political party sitting in parliament today. I can't stand the kind of insult that I'm guilty or that someone here is responsible for me because someone couldn't study and choose where they were going to study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10855	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before concluding a principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Mr. Minister, do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10856	Finally, two extremely important questions were raised that I think require an answer to complete the subject. In fact, there was a question – what is the difference in the exercise of the rights of employees in the Fund in 2012 and 2013, as well as whether there is a difference in defined budgets? The funds identified for this purpose are the same, and in 2012 the salaries were paid under military regulations and that is the essence of this amendment to the law, since the application of the Budgetary System Act, as compared to the Fund, should start from 1 January 2013. It was necessary to propose these changes in order to avoid the conflict of laws, which is evident, which exists, and on the other hand, to save about 50 million dinars in the military budget. As for the discussion of individual MPs, which referred to the issue of development, i.e. the reform of the state administration system, as well as the invitation to appear before the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, I will be very happy to appear before the Committee. It is extremely good for parliamentary practice and strengthening democracy in Serbia. I will be glad to be someone who will contribute, because I am convinced that such a rule of law, in the best possible way, is building, and a negative example is a practice so far where ministers did not have the habit of doing so regularly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10857	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We move to the 5th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF TRADE LAW. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that on the basis of a principled review of the draft law in item 5 of the agenda, in addition to the proposing representatives, Dr Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, I have called on the sittings to attend both Dusan Protic and Ljiljana Stankovic, Deputy Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications. You've received a bill from the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on European Integration. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which you have received in addition. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs and in accordance with Article 96(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principled inquiry into the bill. The word is made by MP Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10858	Mr. Chairman, Article 27. Please take a session, i.e. to postpone the session tomorrow, given the importance of this topic and the importance of this law. We believe that here, sitting at 9:00 in the morning and past the deal that we had, you're either going to postpone the session for tomorrow or I'm asking for a break for the heads of Parliament's groups, since this is a very important bill, to try to save the concentration, and many who wanted to speak have gone, from all MPs' groups, and I think it would be useful for the quality of the debate and to make adequate decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10859	I'm setting a 15-minute break. [[After a break.]] Please, let's get back to work. The word is made by National Ambassador Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10861	Dear Chairman, I am advocating the Rules of Procedure, Art. 27th and 87th. So, you took a 15-minute break and decided, without consulting the heads of the parliamentary groups to proceed with your work. Article 87. The Rules of Procedure say that a session of the National Assembly is held on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18:00 hours. It's 1900 hours now and we have a very important law ahead of us. So, amendments to the Law on Trade, I don't know what Mr. Ljajic has done to this government to get a 19.00-hour term without a TV transmission and what we have sinned to discuss such an important topic without the possibility of doing it in a quality way. Apart from the DS in this room, no one from the opposition is there, because they probably didn't expect the trade law debate to begin at 1900 hours. I think you're seriously disrupting the reputation of the National Assembly. The agreement that has been made, i.e. the promise made to the heads of the parliamentary groups, that the work of this Assembly will be introduced into some normal state that laws can be seriously considered and that it will be in favour of and out of this Assembly of Quality Laws. I think what you're doing is that this is some kind of violence and demeaning of the people's MPs and citizens of Serbia, by the way, and the minister who's here tonight is with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10862	I can accept your advertising of the Rules of Procedure in part, however, I must remind you that, on time today, an extension of work has been announced and after 18.00 hours on agenda points. The break I took, I did it for a simple reason, not because I had a need, but at your request to get you in time to prepare for this item on the agenda. I suggest that we continue our work and please, if necessary, let the minister take his word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry we're having a discussion at this time, and I'd completely agree with MP Veselinovic about a very important law, more specifically the amendments and additions to this law, but I've been waiting two hours since I was told to start this debate. I hope that through the principle debate and discussion on amendments, we will come to a good text of the law that systematically regulates the area of trade. As you know, this law was passed in 2010, and its practical application began on 1 January 2011. This law practically stemmed from the Trade Development Strategy, which was adopted a year earlier, and it represents only a normative formulation of the solution itself and the Strategy itself. It has indeed hit the modern foundations of trade development, has respected all international standards in this area, followed European directives in the area of trade, but has also proved to apply within two years, that the law has certain shortcomings, that certain solutions were inadmissible in practice, that they could not be implemented. Also, certain provisions contained restrictive solutions that prevented further development of trade although, of course, it was not the original purpose. Therefore, while respecting the experience of law enforcement, respecting the proposals that we have received from the profession, from traders, which we have received from all other market participants, we have decided to go with the amendments and additions to this law whose main aim is to improve the business environment, to contribute to further development of trade, to accelerate competition among all market participants, ultimately to contribute to the protection of consumers in Serbia. The amendments and additions of this law themselves could be divided into some four basic groups. The first group of amendments refers to the removal of all restrictive restrictions and provisions in the law itself. The second group of amendments is the paper passed by law, which has not been normed by the current law. The third group of amendments should contribute more effectively to the work of market inspection. The fourth group of amendments are actually technical changes that clarify certain legal provisions. Let me make it as brief as possible, respecting both your time and time in which this session takes place, give a few of the most fundamental and most significant amendments to this law. When we talk about the first group of amendments, so removing the existing administrative barriers, what I should say immediately is the biggest change since the current law predicted that the ministry, more specifically the Trade Development Centre, would give permission at the end of all commercial facilities greater than 2,000 square meters. In other words, that there is a special study to be done that should be accepted by the mall for the development of trade and the worst thing is, that provision has never even come to life. So we've had one restrictive provision that could have been destimulating for all foreign investors in the country, in fact, no one has ever asked for that permission, and as you know, retail facilities are just over 2,000 square meters away. So on the one hand, we are now removing a provision that has neither been applied, which contains this restrictive, or limiting character in itself. We send a very clear message that all foreign investors and investors are welcome, because it is absolutely pointless for someone to get all the necessary local permits, from building permits, other permits, and ultimately that there is an authority, in this case the ministry, or this mall for the development of trade, and not to allow or issue a permit for a foreign investor. What was the idea of this original solution? The idea was noble, well-imagined, that in conditions where we had no developed market and competition, this way to control the concentration of different retail facilities. In other words, not to endanger the so-called small shops by opening such objects. However, statistics say something quite different. If you look at the structure of retail by formats for 2011, yes, for example, in the Czech Republic you have 40% of the market in hypermarket, 15% of the supermarket, 15% of the small shops, in Slovakia 31% of the hypermarket, 24% of the supermarket, 19% of the small shops, that in Hungary, Croatia, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and Russia, then comes Serbia with only 5% of the hypermarket, 24% of the supermarket and 53% of the small shops. This is one provision and the amendments to this provision will actually be one signal for all major trade chains that intend to invest and invest in Serbia. The second change is the result of this first one. So we're canceling the mall for the development of the store, which hasn't come back to life. It's a public agency. This change means less spending, because there will be no need to hire new people, or to fund the agency. The third change we make, which was designed to do this mall for the development of trade, because traders were obliged by 31 March to provide all the documentation, various data related to their business, to this particular trade development centre. These data were supposed to merge into a unique investment system that was important. Now that we've abolished the centre, we've removed the obligation to supply all that data, but there's also one provision that's important for us that we can get important data when needed from the market's point of view, market participants, from the point of view of intervention on the market. In other words, we'll come up with a simpler and cheaper information system and we'll know exactly what data we're going to ask traders for, and we'll spare them again every year that they deliver a lot of documentation that's no longer in practice until now. Furthermore, these changes suggest simplifying the keeping of traffic records. We had a situation where merchants had to hold a bunch of paper, a variety of sealing documents, with the signatures of all these documents in their retail facilities. Now we bring it to a reasonable extent, that these data must be delivered when required by the competent authorities who exercise control. Again, we want to speed up keeping a traffic record in electronic form. We believe it will also come to life in perspective. In this way, we wanted to meet first of all the Association of Accountants of Vojvodina, the Chamber of Commerce of Belgrade, the Association of Independent Dealers of Vojvodina, Mercator, as well as the markets of inspections, which also required the simplification of the entire procedure. The next restrictive provision we remove concerns the documents accompanying the goods at the crossing. So again, it was necessary to, say, from store to store the trader should have all the necessary documentation when these goods are imported now, and customs documentation and documentation concerning the storage of that goods in stores. Now it's necessary to have an emissary, so it's just that documentation that's specifically related to the transport of those goods from one place to another. Here we have come to meet the demands of IKEA, the American Chamber of Commerce and the market inspection which will be made easier to control that documentation. We also foresee the abolition of minimum terms regarding employees in trade, thus eliminating the possibility of creating unnecessary barriers, additional obligations and costs for traders, because this is a probation law and it is not the purpose of this law to regulate each of you individually in trade. It is known that pharmacies have to work in pharmacies. So it's exactly a certain qualification. That's the way it is in other areas. There's no need for it to be regulated by this law at the store. After all, the developed market will regulate and affect that traders themselves employ the best and set high standards in their area. Also, further change concerns selibralisation of working time at the retail trade. So far, the minister should have defined the framework working time by a special regulation, and then the units of local self-government would define the exact working time on the territory of these municipalities. We are now fully in charge of local self-government. We think they know best how to regulate the length of working time on their territory for different retail facilities. As far as the papers are concerned, I'm only going to mention two of the most important things in this law. The first newspaper concerns further improvement in the fight against unfair competition, i.e. unfair competition between traders on the Serbian market. I'd like to say here that we're introducing a brand new legal instrument into our legal system. He never existed before. For the first time, there is a basis to compensate for the immaterial damage done to the legal person because of a breach of business reputation by an act of unfair competition. To be clear, according to the Law on Liabilities, so far there has been the possibility of compensation for material damage caused by unfair competition, but not for immaterial damage to the legal person in terms of damage to legal reputation. We believe that this way we will help fight for the development of competition and respect for good business practices. Thus, the state reduces the need for a restrictive role in this case, more specifically on the market itself. The second amendment concerns removing existing barriers to more intensive product development with trade mark. What does that mean? Article 40 of the existing law defines that goods in retail trade must have a declaration containing data on goods and, inter alia, on the manufacturer. These changes will now allow the name of the trader to stand instead of the manufacturer's name. What is the essence of this change? Therefore, the trader may decide to place his name on the product declaration, instead of the manufacturer’s name, which means that he assumes the full obligation, but also the responsibility to comply with all other standards, as well as with the law of the prescribed conditions, and as regards the law on general product safety, the Food Safety Act, the Law on Health Justice and General Use, as well as other laws relating above all to the transport of food products. In this way, the state can exercise more effective control, but the element of the effectiveness of control is certainly traceability. At any moment, it must be known who is responsible for what and, if the goods are not safe, who is responsible for the withdrawal of the goods from the market. What's the second advantage of this solution? Above all, there is a significant chance for smaller producers, who are unable to use their own products, i.e. with their own brands they compete with retail chains or even a chance for large producers with more capacity, who will then be able to work for these producers. Also, this is one opportunity for all producers to export their goods, because, objectively speaking, their chances of exporting goods are far smaller if they do it themselves, and now that chance increases by the fact that if they work for some of the big trade chains, wherever that trade chain has its own facilities, these goods can be exported. The fourth advantage of this solution is that we have trade chains that intend to come to Serbia and that in their range have significant product representation with their own trade mark. Therefore, we have also created a basis for the arrival of such trade chains. It's important to point out this fact here. Namely, the market share of products with trade marks in 13 ranked countries, I will not read everything, but only a few data, say, in Switzerland in 2012 is 47%, in Great Britain 47%, in Belgium 36%, in Germany 32%. Croatia is at the bottom with 18% and Serbia with only 4% of its share of retail brand products. The third group of amendments concerns changes that are important from the point of view of labour and the effectiveness of market inspection. Here, above all, is a thought-finding deadline for traders to remove identified irregularities. So far, the deadline could not be shorter than three days and this solution has proved inapplicable, especially from the point of view of participation in fairs or similar events that last even less than three days. Then the next change refers to simplifying the process of selling confiscated goods, shortening the procedure, making it more efficient, the government will determine closer the way and conditions of sales and concessions without compensation. The fourth group of changes are more technical. They refer to the precision of the trader's properties, to the erasure of the so-called. specialized services, then highlighting the unique and selling price. Here I must stress that we are on our way and formally introducing the possibility to highlight prices in foreign currency, with an indication of the accounting course, and this specifically refers to tourist agencies and car trade. In addition, the Commission notes that there is no evidence that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, as well as the principles laid down in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011. In the drafting of this law, i.e. amendments and additions, we have consulted less and more significant market participants, the professional public, the Consumer Protection Association, the Union of Foreign Investors, the American Chamber of Commerce and all other interested entities. Here we have received amendments in Parliament on the proposal of this law and we will be ready to accept some of these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10864	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10865	Ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers, chairpersons, colleagues and colleagues of the Trade Act can only be effectively implemented when a social environment is created with the absence of corruption guaranteeing its non-selective implementation. I took a good look at the objections of the Union of Employers of Serbia, as well as some positive sides assessed by the national consumer organisation of Serbia. In 2010, the SPO also had representatives in this parliament, when a bill like this was passed, which is changing today. So, we attend the amendments and the additions of the law, and therefore I will look at all the commercial activities or some who have created all the things that this law should solve, and above all I mean unfair competition and I mean, not those people who in business-political relationships owned trade chains and who acquired their capital in suspicious business, in relation to, say, the owners of the STR, who should and all of us in the campaign swear to be the basis or support of Serbia's future economic recovery. The owner of the STR must, because in his period of economic crisis he had to pay his commitments in time, otherwise there was a concern that the financial police, the trade inspection or others made it impossible to continue operations, while some people who were engaged in large businesses, who were engaged in large trade, owed to the state by several million or even when all this was collected, came up with some figures published by the media, and the finance minister never answered whether it was true or not, of about five billion euros in debts on the basis of taxes, contributions and other liabilities to the state. We remember being under a company of patriotism being in a position to watch as the "C market" was hijacked. We know that this is now the subject of one of the 24 that should be investigated in the fight against corruption. We are aware that without such an examination of the origin of the property, we will not be able to implement any law, this on trade, or today on rural development and agriculture, in an environment that can achieve or lead to Serbia's economic recovery, that we will not be able to implement it for the first time because we have to look into our own backyard, who in the previous period have come to a great deal of wealth, and then used it when paying suppliers their goods, their disputes against their workers and when they were in monopoly behaviour and market relations to all others. All these people have since 1990, it seems to me to me by 2012, until the state began to deal seriously with the problem we have to solve, the problem of corruption, all those who are trying to solve it and to fight corruption, have the support of the SPO, regardless of what the SPO is together with the DHSS opposition parliamentary club in this parliament. We're in favour of applying an effective law in trade. I say that the ambience ahead of us, which will examine the business of all those who have been monopolies or who want to be monopolies of all those who have come to a certain wealth through abuse, will then usurp the entire trade space of Serbia. Until these things are resolved, I don't think any law will have a soul, but the ambience is slowly created in which this law, which we voted for in 2010 without these changes and additions, will receive useful value and be able to be unselectively applied. Let us once all together in this House fulfill our pre-election promises, so let it be common, to create an environment in which independent traders in an efficient way, in a competition that will be a competition, consistent with their work and advocacy, could achieve revenue. I hope that on this road we are ready to support together certain legislative proposals, as is this, and I hope that in the future, for all that is good for Serbia we will find a common language and that is the way that the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club is moving in this Parliament, when we say that we will support everything that is in the interests of the Serbian citizens, and that we will sharply criticise everything that is wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10866	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10867	Thank you, Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, are evening hours but that does not mean that we are tired and that we should cross this law just as quickly as possible, not to say run over, so I may be a little bit longer to stay, regardless of Mr. Minister, because you have so closely explained which these are essential, which are more technical amendments to this amendment to the law on trade and supplementing the law on trade. Only two years ago was adopted, then the system and reform law on trade and entered into force on 1 January 2011. After two years, there was an opportunity, or need for certain amendments and additions to the law. This means that the law did not respond to obligations anywhere at that time even though it was both systemic and reformal. I'll be brief, more for the public, and it's not burning again, and much less for all of us, because we've been reading it these days. I'm gonna go over the changes and the supplements briefly, say where the DSS welcomes the changes, where we think we should have added something else, and when it comes to technical change, and also these, for you as a promoter, essential changes, we might add something. In Article 1, you deleted the definition of an expert evaluator and instead introduces a new manufacturer institute which, by placing its stamp and names, appears as a trafficker. Right away at the beginning, we're going to say, and I'm going to explain it a little bit to the article 64, and we think that the Institute of Expert Assessment is not the kind of person who's been asking for some very large costs, and we think that his role is later, when it comes to confiscation, seizing or selling taken goods and whatever it is, and it should be and how significant it should be. Article 2, and we welcome it, the natural person who sold second-hand goods is abolished, and it no longer has the property of the trader. That's perfectly normal. Article 5, you said, in Article 32, it was regulated that employees in trade should have certain skills, education, expertise. You think it's an administrative burden for traders. It may be if they're traders or shop owners of another qualification, but you're going to let those who should work in a variety of trade sectors, and they're very specific, so it's logical that they should have some knowledge. There's gonna be a competition. In the competition, it must be clearly stated which expert prepares for a particular trading area, and then there will be no one who has exactly that professional equipment. You already know what our education system is, so it can come to being accepted by someone else, so the question will be asked – on what basis it is received, I have this expert arrangement. We believe that it was not an obstacle, and it is not a burden for a trader, because merchants must also have that – and some skills and some acquired knowledge and education. Article 7, and we welcome this, makes it easier for traders to keep procedures and the availability of complete documentation that monitors the goods from the shipment and, further, we believe that not at every sales facility to be kept, to stand, to show, but it is much easier and cheaper for them to keep it in that place that the Ministry reports and that change, and how we welcome. You said in article 11, you now give local self-government full authority to determine working time, absolutely all trading formats. This member, i.e. a member and the position which has regulated the area in force, we believe that it is somehow more logical, because if we give them full powers, local self-government will decide for themselves and have this diversity and colourfulness in determining working time. Simply, some working-time standards are from 9 to 21 hours and weekends from 9 to 14 or 16 or 18 hours, like where. You know that even great merchants, if we want to open doors for them, in our studies of justification or economic justification, must also put in some legal working time that applies to a particular area. We simply fear that this colourfulness will also cause greater effort and greater costs, while they are asking about the working time in Ivanjica, Sombor, Svilinc, will pass the time, and will increase their costs. So we think that it's better for local self-government to leave that for certain trading formats only and that only in certain days, as it was, whether the days are not working, whether they're holiday days or already overtime for certain formats and that they should remain. Article 13 of the Government's proposal, i.e. on your proposal, is the most essential change, which is that the impact study on the market for large commercial formats is abolished over 2,000 square metres of gross area. Of course we should make it possible, you said that only 5%, if I'm not wrong, if I'm right, there's only 5% supermarket in Serbia, unlike many countries you've listed, which have 15, 20 and more. We should make it easier for them, cut costs, raise that administrative obstacle and allow them to expand. It's just that we have to keep an eye on the competition law, so they don't cross. You know, when you raise them one ramp, even if it's this one, and you know it won't be necessary just to raise this ramp of yours, when it comes to a reasonableness study, it's going to take a lot of your other colleagues to get involved in the fact that hypermarkets would come alive and spread across our Serbia. There should be no monopoly on the market. It's okay, we're going to give supermarkets and hypermarkets to come and we're all going there and there are cheap prices, but our market, or our commercial activity, has been based for a long time and rests on independent trades, which most of them employ their family, these are family shops, five, six people from one family working. Let's not just lift up all the hypermarket ramps to put them at risk. We're going to have a new problem with these people's unemployment, and in the end, it takes a certain period of time for them to adapt to new market conditions. Article 14 is repealed by the Public Agency of the Centre for Trade Development. It's completely understandable. She didn't come back to life. It's completely understandable with the budgetary savings position to shut down that agency, but in the previous law, the agency had powers that were for respect. By abolishing this agency, many of the information that the agency was supposed to receive and collect is being transferred to the ministry's jurisdiction. Among other things, that agency also dealt with the information system, so, centrally. She received all that information from traders on March 31st. Now you've narrowed it down a little bit, or not all of that ingenuity, all this business of the Trade Development Centre has gone to the Ministry. You've made a little bit of it here with certain goods to get information. We believe that there should be one central information system, that there should be absolutely all data related to the movement of the situation on the market. Personally I don't know, I didn't make it, believe me, I tried a dozen stores to get in, I wanted as an MP to ask directly the owner of a small store what kind of objections he had to make to the law and everything that followed him. I couldn't reach any of the owners, they were mostly employees, so I don't know how much of a burden it was for them and how much it cost them to give. Maybe we should simplify the rules and patterns that should be filled out. But that's what their authorised accountants do to them, who charge all the expenses, so I don't think it's a problem if they do one of those forms, so that you in the Ministry have the right information. You have reintroduced Article 16a. one fundamental change, which deals with judicial protection against unfair competition. That's good. It is necessary to protect traders from unfair competition, but it is generally said here to protect a trader from a trader, a registered store from a registered store. I'd say they're more colleagues in the field, let's say they respect each other most of the time and they're not exactly in a position to hurt each other. Perhaps we should, and we are here as a party reacting with one amendment, the damaged trader has protection against unfair competition from a natural person who, in front of his shop, sells goods, and we all know that this is done in Serbia, that the retailers at 50 or 10 meters in front of registered trades, there are traders who sell illegally and from them, if there are witnesses, and they should be brought to trial, and especially criminal charges, but in that respect, when we come to unfair competition. I agree, if we are already here at the competition, with fellow Yugoslavs, that we need to take a little more care when it comes to unfair competition. I believe that all of you, especially you, Mr. Minister, know that some estimates of traffic in that grey zone range range from 2.7 to 4.6 billion euros, and that the state loses 400, 500 per year only to VAT alone, and maybe more than one million euros. How do we put the gray streams in the store under control? That's what we should be thinking. Think about one strategy for curbing unfair trade, because that's what's the biggest problem. This law treats registered STRs who pay the state all taxes. They're under surveillance. They're being visited, and somehow, nowhere in any member, maybe a new member should have been added who will at least open up the hope that we'll legalize and fight unfair competition. Art. 23, 24, the provisions of Article 64 are amended, and this is also the way in which the goods taken away are added. We know that goods can either be taken away from municipal inspections at local level or market inspections at the republican level, so two bodies. Thus, the taken goods can be sold either by local self-government at the decision of their authority or by the Government, i.e. The competent ministry. We think that maybe the role of an expert appraiser was important. When you take away some goods, you need to store it somewhere first. That someone needs to estimate which goods are which categories, which species, where to store. Furthermore, if already sold by public procurement, an initial price should be established to determine whether or not the goods are for sale by quality. Furthermore, to establish, and this may already be in the jurisdiction, whether it is to comply with these levels of government, so we felt that this institute should remain an expert assessor. In short, you said yourself, and according to us, the paper is working time in the management of local self-government, abolishing the production of studies for large hypermarkets, abolishing the mall for the development of trade for the sake of savings, and because of its failure to live, judicial protection against unfair competition, but only between registered shops, have we not touched illegal trade and we have abolished the possibility, that is, the obligation for traders to deliver their data necessary for the central information system on 31 March. Mr. Minister, you know over 180,000 people work at the store. It's a sector that employs an army of people. We know what the consumer basket is, we know what the wages are. According to data in the last five years, traffic has dropped by more than 30%, the number of employees has dropped by more than 15,000 people in the trade sector, and the losses in trade operations in 2011 are over 55%. We all need to ask ourselves together where the trade sector is going, what is it, I believe you've put forth a great deal of effort and talked to all the relevant factors that should have delivered objections to this law. I think the law could have, if we had already touched and started to change it, we could have made some more fundamental changes, just about unfair competition. There's something else I need to tell you. And you and I know that traders, we call them STR, are exposed to market inspection, communal inspection, environmental inspection, labour inspection, not to list which inspections. It's just that when all those people and all those inspection services that we've got from here, we pass the law, you propose and we bring it, they execute it, they go after these Strahs, believe me, they feel like they've been attacked by an enemy army. Then we set ourselves up in two camps, we who passed the law, you who proposed, inspectors who went into the field to control how that law was implemented on two opposite sides. We're not on two opposite sides, we're on one side. It is your obligation to pass a quality law, to listen to what it is, and it is much more common because the fluctuations are much more common, to listen much more often to what is happening, to give us good suggestions, to adopt them here, and that the inspection, among other things, is not on the field of harrakes, excuse me for saying so, but believe me STR is very often experienced, but to be people of the system, professional people who, among other things, will have, not to say counselling in the right sense of words, but in some way and educational role. Many STRs do not have such good knowledge that they can wash out all the full legislation and all the changes. Then when I say so, the market inspector has the impression that he's freaking him out, that he finds him right where he was accidentally wrong and that he takes his punishment to fill his budget. Then he says -- they go early, various inspections to fill the republican budget. Come on, everybody, let's work together, let's give traders such an ambience, so that as MPs and you as legislators don't consider us the other side, but the right side that is actually on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10868	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10869	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Trade is certainly the basic and most important law governing trade activity. The central place deserved the fact that it regulates total trade traffic, but also the behaviour of all those participants in the traffic. I will remind you once again that this law was passed in this Assembly in 2010, and began with the application of 1 January 2011. I will remind you that the law was passed after a serious public debate, following the participation of a significant professional public and expectations following the adoption of the law were very high. What we are then, and what we expect today from the amendments and additions of this law is to expect to encourage the trade sector, to enable it to run market, besides the whole economy, and to allow the intervention of the state only in those cases where due to certain market distortions it is necessary to protect the interest of the participants in trade. Speaking of interest, I think this law is good and it will be good at the moment when the interests of the participants in this process are satisfactory. First of all, I think of the interests of consumers, the interests of traders, as the minister himself said, of those who produce goods and whose goods are sold in trading facilities, and finally, one of the general interests of our country, and hence all citizens. Unfortunately, none of these categories today can express any great pleasure. Consumers are increasingly buying, complaining of excessive prices and not going into deep analysis whether it's because of someone's monopoly, whether it's because of the lack of competition, whether it's because of the pre-glacial administration, the three administrations that slows the arrival of new traders, whether it's because of the poor work of market inspection, what at this point and always will, I'm sure, interest the consumers, is certainly that they get as little money as possible for the better quality. They're interested in price and quality. What traders resent, and thus justify high prices in their stores, is precisely a trom and pro-glomary administration, a large number of unnecessary procedures, unnecessary institutions. As my previous colleague said, they complain about the fact that market inspectors, or at least that's what it looks like to them, are going out in the field not to help them with their advice, but to fill the budget. On the other hand, I say once again, they're justifying their prices too high. Manufacturers also have a problem with the collection of their products and have a problem and place their products. It is good that in these amendments and additions there is a provision on the trade mark and will in some ways help them to sell their products in a larger number and in a larger case. Finally, as far as the state is concerned, certainly the state where consumption is reduced, and therefore economic activity is reduced, cannot be satisfied and cannot be satisfied with its interest. When we talk about the trade sector, it would be unfair not to say that the current economic situation is not only with us but also in the whole world, a very important factor affecting the functioning of this sector. But what's on the other hand is the fact that certain provisions of the basic law, which began with the implementation of 2011, did not apply in practice, and I would even say that it became an obstacle. Our obligation today is to discuss amendments and amendments to the basic law. I would especially refer to article 13. The minister himself said it was a key amendment to the basic law that erases Article 45 of the basic law. I will remind you that the member referred to the impact study, to the structure of the market and predicted the production of the study. In fact, the trader could not have done the study, but rather had been authorised by a certain scientific and research institution, accredited in a special way, in the field of market research and trade. In that study, she gave an assessment, as already mentioned many times, of a public agency – a centre for the development of trade. It may be interesting to say that when obtaining a building permit it was necessary to attach a positive or negative opinion of the mall for the development of trade. In addition to the fact that such a provision in the basic law represents one of the more difficult circumstances for all those who wanted to invest in the area of trade, it was one financial expense, a time spent, a degree of uncertainty. On the other hand, we have to be honest and say that in an indirect manner the state itself has interfered in the market and has in some way become involved in the affairs of local self-government. We therefore believe that it is good that this article of the 45th basic law has been deleted in amendments and additions to the law. It has been deleted for several reasons, primarily to send a clear message to all those investors who want to open over 2,000 squares of gross surface area of exhibition and storage that they will not have at least that obstacle if they have a large number of other obstacles. I've already mentioned problems with the building permit, and I'm sure some law in the coming period will make it easier to get building permits and other difficulties. The section defining the promotion of trade in the basic text of the law mentioned the Center for the Development of Trade. The logical clue is that the Centre stops working. Some of the obligations of the Centre itself relating to the collection, monitoring, management and analysis of data on trade, the market and the trade network are now moving to the ministry itself. We welcome all those changes concerning the eased records of the traders themselves, and it is good that the traders themselves now have the opportunity to keep only one place and, when necessary, show records at the site they report to the resolution ministry. Disrespect of the competition, i.e. The unfair competition is certainly one significant anomaly and it is good that the Proposer has complemented the basic law and provided for the possibility of a lawsuit requiring the determination of the action of a unfair competition, then the ban on its further conduct, the removal of consequences and damages. It is good that for the first time there is an Institute of Compensation for Immaterial Damage and of course I support this new institute, but we will also pay great attention to how the judicial responds to all of this, whether the best way to deal with the fact that the judiciary is still not fully reformed in our country and when we talk about the sector of trade and all other sectors, when we talk about investments at all, is clear that even if it is stylish, roof and basic, the most important one cannot solve all the problems, so we need a full reform and a judicial sector that will also show on this case whether there are adequate answers. I'd like to draw attention to Article 11, which defines the conditions for determining working time, and now it's the local self-government unit. We in the URS support this provision and any provision that allows whenever possible for local self-government to give greater authority, which is also one of the fundamental principles of the URS movement. In the process of decentralisation itself, we need to support local self-government, and we do not see a reason why such a subject such as the setting of working time at the level of a municipality should be governed by the minister, and this is in the interests of the Minister and the Ministry not to be buried with certain non-essential matters, and we are sure that local self-government will positively and well respond to such a task for them will certainly not be too difficult. The basic text of the law envisioned certain competences and certain actions entrusted to local self-government, but in the conversation with people from the locals, I think it primarily referred to the respect of working time, to the control of the sale of goods outside the marked place, unfortunately it did not come to life at the place, and the observation is that these people who are outside the locals, people from municipal activities from municipalities and cities did not get proper licences from the ministry itself. I'm sure you, Mr. Minister, know what I'm talking about. They've been expecting these licences for a long time, and now there's one bottleneck that the locale can't do the basic text of the 2011 law because the people who are scheduled for the job didn't get those licenses and I'm sure they'll be removed in the next period. I'd like to draw attention to something called a sales incentive. First of all, I think of actions, discounts, sales and promotions, and there are forms of unfair and misleading business hidden behind these sales incentives. We are witnesses when we enter supermarkets, when we enter shops, that we are buried with various inscriptions and information about actions, promotions and sales, and there is no notice of why and why your discounts and those actions are. It's very rare because of the reduced value of the product that's being sold. Whether it is a product error, whether or not it is an expiry date, whether or not it is a damage, and a good solution provided for in this law is that there must be a clear reason why consumers should be offered this sales incentive. We must strive and there must be one intensity for us who adopt such laws to keep the consumer as safe as possible and see it in this law, so that the consumer gets as much information about the goods as possible to know what he gives his money for. There are some other provisions here that you wouldn't particularly apostrophe, and that's exactly what these areas are all about. I mean the price regulations. I mean the provisions on a more detailed declaration, which is very important. When you listen to our people who travel around the world, they usually tell you – there is a clear declaration on their product on both the shelves and on the products whether they can eat those who are sick and cannot use products that contain some ingredients. The intensity should be to help the consumer as much as possible to know what he's giving his money for. Finally, by supporting this law, these amendments and additions to the Law, what we expect from the URS is that these amendments and additions of the law will certainly create a good environment for the arrival of as many traders on our market as possible, increase competition and improve the work of inspection services, find a cure for unfair competition. It also improves the position of customers, consumers, improve the position of traders and those who produce, thereby increasing the interest of the country itself. We support the Secretary-General's announcements that soon we will discuss in this Assembly the consumer protection law, the law on electronic trade as one significant and globally more developed form of trade, but also the law on commodity reserves, so that in this way one overall legal framework would be rounded up and we are sure that in the coming period and after the adoption of these laws, and after one consistent application of these laws, the quality of the entire trade sector will improve and that both customers and consumers and traders and producers, but also the state itself, will have much more reasons to be satisfied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10870	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10871	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there are amendments and additions to the Law on Trade, a law adopted two years ago, in July 2010 and its application began on 1 January 2011. This is not a fundamental amendment to the law, and that is what Mr Ljajic said in the very explanation and it is in the light of this law that we have received as MPs. Therefore, some of its parts, which have been shown in practice, are not the most applicable and need to be changed in a certain part of the procedure, in order to facilitate business and trade and the state in policy implementation towards this sector. What we in the DS think is that this system law was passed in 2010 and that it is very important. We will give support to these changes to some of the questions we want to ask you. First, I would like to warn the Vice-President of the National Assembly that it is an inappropriate time to discuss this system law. You yourself, Mr. Minister, said this was a law that systematically regulates the area of trade. We therefore believe that the debate was to be held at a more appropriate time, with television transmissions and that would then be safer and more interesting and would come to a better quality solution. Certainly, more representatives from the ruling parties and opposition would be present in the assembly tonight, on that occasion. I believe that the explanation is very simple about why tonight is a late night and why we're going into the eleventh hour of work today, which is that there wouldn't be a session with government issues on Thursday. It's not a good way to raise the quality of the work of the National Assembly, to restore citizens' trust. It's the opposite of that, and unfortunately, the ruling majority doesn't understand it. I am sure that citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who live very hard, will understand why the government does not want to discuss themselves at a special session on key issues, which affect citizens. Maybe it's because members of the government can't sit together at the same rally and can't get together here in the National Assembly, because we saw about the Declaration on Kosovo that there are two policies that we of the DS have exposed. (President: Go back to the topic, Mr. Jovanovic. ) Of course, I want to make an introduction because I think we have some misunderstandings here and I want to ask a question about these misunderstandings. Before that, I would like to remind myself that today in Serbia, at the end of last year inflation was 12.2%, according to the Bureau of Statistics and the National Bank of Serbia. The governor of the National Bank says this is due to high food prices, and the cause is an increase in VAT which is one of the first decisions to amend the VAT law that has been made by the new ruling majority. Of course, a drought that had an impact on the price of agricultural products. We believe in the DS that the human resources that come from the ruling coalition cannot help make inflation smaller and that other state systems function properly, given that these solutions are made in a widely known way. What is expected of the government of the Republic of Serbia and of us, as MPs, is to bring measures to citizens who are extremely difficult, I will repeat inflation 12.2%, unemployment is almost 30%. That's far more than it was in 2011 when inflation was 7% and unemployment was 26%. They expect measures that will change the situation, fix it. We understand that this bill of amendments and additions to the Law on Trade is your proposal for certain procedures, which are unnecessary, to end and make life easier for citizens, because this is life, trade is life. Citizens pay for products in stores depending on how competition is on our market. I'll remind you, we didn't get the game right. In 2010, it started with this law, with changes now. I think it's another step forward and we're going to make that game the way it's supposed to be, to reduce unfair competition. I'm sure we can't lift her, but we can narrow her down to certain measures. Abuse of dominant position, too. We have a situation that the public-known story is that prices in Serbia are the highest. They're probably not the biggest, but they're certainly among the biggest, and that's another measure to deal with in the government. What is important in the application of this law is that it is applied educationally and preventively and that the repression against private entrepreneurs, who are extremely difficult to operate at this time, is minimal, or that the control that the state is conducting is, in some ways, characterized by that goal of acting preventively, educationally and being partners with this branch of economy. This new option that you have introduced with changes and additions, a lawsuit against unfair competition, we believe it is good, as it will contribute to those who pay taxes and contribute to this country being able to exercise their rights and compensate for the damage they suffer. Also, the electronic record provided for in the trade is something that will improve efficiency and reduce costs for economic operators. You stressed that the most significant changes are the removal of the obligation to make studies on the structure of the market for buildings whose sales and storage space exceeds two thousand square meters. Also, erasing a member who provides for the establishment of a trade development centre. We believe that if such a decision has been made, if an analysis has been made, if objections have been received from various representatives of trade chains and small shops, that if it is true that the ministry can assume the functions of the centre, it is a good decision, because we are going to reduce the number of instances which address and the number of instances that address certain requirements and data. As for these objects that are over two thousand square meters, they are large trade chains and they depended on that study. With that study, they could have started building a hypermarket or a place of sale. I'm sure it wasn't in no one's interest for that study to be accepted. Is there a case that a study was done without someone getting permission to build a place of sale? What we want to ask you, Mr. Minister, is that we don't think there are any serious objections to your work and we don't want it to be understood that way, but we want to make some of the ambiguities that we have. You told us that the objections of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, or the relevant committee, were accepted. It was discussed individually with municipal and urban chambers and committee representatives in chambers, that they were all informed that they needed to deliver objections, that 35 economic operators submitted concrete remarks and that they were respected. You just said that in one piece. It was a public assessment. What we have as a dilemma is a statement issued about this law by the Union of employers of Serbia, which concerns a public debate over the law. In a statement by the Union of Employers of Serbia, this is indeed unusual, for this reason I said earlier that I do not understand whether there is unity in the ruling majority about the adoption of this law or whether someone is trying to hide. I'll read part of the announcement. It states that unlike the Ministry of Finance and Business, which has permanent consultations and meetings with the economy, in a desire to help get out of recession and improve the economic environment, the ministry of trade for five months' work of the new government does not have such a pattern. The minister and his closest associates avoid meeting traders and considering burning issues, Serbian employers claim in the Union. As a result of such behaviour, the resolution ministry has been quoted as saying direct communication with parliamentary groups in the Serbian Parliament so that amendments to the proposed amendments to the Law on Trade can be improved at least part of the law. A Union of Employers of Serbia statement added that the largest associations of small traders as well as medium and large companies in the border of trade have been seeking a meeting with trade minister Rasim Ljajic for months to discuss a kind of guillotine of trade regulations. According to them, the ministry sent the Serbian Parliament a proposal to amend the Law on Trade without consulting representative representatives of the private sector in the branch of trade. In the Union, employers of Serbia also point out that an agreement between employers and trade unions with Serbian Prime Minister Ivica Dacic has been broken, that all proposals to amend and supplement the law directly related to business operations must first be submitted to the socio-economic council for a statement and analysis. It's also claimed that it wasn't done. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, if these allegations are correct, since we haven't heard anything about it here in your address, nor does it stand in reason. Also, does this law have the support of the entire ruling majority? Why is a good economy minister good for certain professional representatives in this area, and you're not? Is the politicisation of the public debate on amendments to the Trade Act another introduction to the new debate within the ruling majority? The key question is, does the whole conversation, the public debate and its politicisation have anything to do with the protection of the rights of small merchants, or does it have anything to do with the protection of the monopoly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10872	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10873	I must say I am not the political favorite of the Association of Employers of Serbia, more specifically their leadership. That is a fact, these are our misunderstandings from the period when I was Minister of Labour and Social Policy, but it is a particular misunderstanding here, because we were in communication with Mr Goran Kovacevic, who is also the president of the Union Trade Sector of the Employers of Serbia, but we treated him as the owner of a large trade chain, the domestic trade chain. So, we delivered the bill, received his proposals and suggestions on the amendment of that law, and we calculated that it was actually a matter of importance to us, not a form. Do we now talk to him as with the Union's employers' sector for trade or the owner of a trade chain? I had a conversation with him after that announcement. I'm counting on us to sort out that misunderstanding, because the essential remarks, as you've seen, are not on the proposal for these changes. I'd understand there's a problem. If it was our fault, I accept that mistake, I apologize for not treating them as a special part of the Union of Employers of Serbia. I don't see much of a problem for that. Was there too much to say? Yes, it is. I personally instructed them, and I apologize to them for that. It's important for me here to come up with a quality solution and a quality proposal, but I haven't heard a single core proposal or an objection to the proposed solutions. We have heard great, excellent discussions here today, and I am sorry that this debate does not take place in a more appropriate time and with a TV broadcast. This is an example for me of how this debate should be conducted, without any politicalization. Was there any politicisation on their part? I don't know, that's what you're assessing. On my part, it really wasn't, because if we referred to so many addresses of the bill, if we sent it to the Chamber of Commerce, and most of the members of that trade sector within the Union of the employers of Serbia are at the same time members of the Union of employers of Serbia, I don't see why they should go past them? No matter what I think of them? But this is about the same members. So, if it's a formal mistake, I accept that we've made a mistake, but I don't really see any concretious objection. Their grudges were for these 2,000 squares and fear that it would endanger small merchants. My answer to that was- so we had this solution that wasn't applied in practice at all. You have asked a good question. Is anyone rejected? Well, nobody asked. No one asked for permission, and everyone was opening those facilities. Therefore, I see no reason to fear that this will now endanger small merchants, i.e. small shops and shops, with this solution or without these solutions. You've noticed, there are no fundamental changes here, no lies, we're fixing things here, we're removing some restrictions, but big, revolutionary changes, there's no real change. We had one good law, a solid law. We accept that it's a practice, that life has shown that some solutions are either bad, or that they're inapplicable, and now we're changing that. That's the point, and everything else, believe me, whether it's politicisation or not, it wasn't on my side. Now I'm focused here, and I want to come this way, and that's why I said that we would accept any amendments that improve the text and the quality of the law. I don't care where those suggestions come from. Those qualifications that could be heard from this statement may be thought of by those who have spoken them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10874	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10875	I thank Mr. Minister for his reply, and you were not referred to an objection as to the timing of this session, but to the chairmans of the National Assembly. Of course, I was obliged to ask you about these remarks made by the Union of Employers of Serbia. It's simple, if there's such an agreement on the socio-economic council and if it's really all that agreed with the prime minister, I think it was necessary to do it that way. But after your explanation it is clear that all those who have made such remarks certainly had the opportunity to do so through other forums, parallelly, so in that sense I have no objection. What was initial, the reason why I read this statement, really this idea of having been sent to certain parliamentary groups, really tickled me to work out a little bit of this and to ask you if there was any unity about voting for amendments and additions to the Law on Trade and what parliamentary groups were, since we didn't get those amendments in the DS, so we don't know who these amendments were and passed on to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10876	Thank you. Do any of the other presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? No, I don't. We move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10877	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade. From the discussion of my predecessors, it is obvious that the amendments to this law have continued with the guillotine of regulations which will facilitate the work of all legal persons dealing with trade. This means that a large number of legal entities involved in trade, and there will be many, easier and more free to carry out their work. Trade is also specific by the fact that all manufacturers are engaged directly or indirectly in trade. So by modifying and supplementing this law, we make it easier for all producers to do business in addition to the legal persons involved in the trade. You'll agree that's one way to automatically employ more people. This is one of the reasons why the JS parliamentary group will also support these amendments and additions to the Trade Act. Such a cutting of trade regulations will put out some unnecessary state bodies, such as the Public Agency for Trade Promotions, the Trade Development Centre, and on the other hand introduces a facilitated analytical mechanism for the collection of data in goods of vital importance, such as oil, flour, milk. Some members of the old law made it impossible and even prevented competition. What's important is that traders no longer have to work lobbys for objects greater than 2,000 square meters, or to send elaborate to the mall for trade and local self-government for approval. The legal basis for the action, for immaterial damage, is introduced because of the violation of the business reputation of the legal person in respect of the action of unfair competition. What is worth commending for is a simplified procedure for opening large trade chains, both domestic and foreign. This will directly affect competition, resulting in lower retail prices. Healthy competition will certainly affect the cost of the consumer basket, which is at the moment a great burden for all citizens of Serbia. This law will also protect small traders from large trade chains, precisely because of the fact that this unfair competition will be reduced. A little while ago, there was, at one point and a comment that small merchants first and foremost complain when controls come out on the ground that they always go around those who have reported shops, and that all those who deal in black trade somehow bypass. Not directly with this law, of course, but with other laws and powers, the market inspection was given a legal basis and already on the ground had just begun to control those people dealing with black trade, i.e. The gray store. Politics, law and life must be harmonised. The two-year-old law has been in place and in practice the need to improve certain parts of it has been seen, and most of all, to reduce administrative barriers to the business of business operators. The JS parliamentary group will therefore support this simple and pragmatic law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10878	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10879	I will agree with my colleagues who have said that the discussion of this law, which is very important, may not be the most appropriate time, that we may be tired, because we entered here at 11 hours of work, but I will sincerely try to give my maximum, because the DSS has seriously accessed the analysis of this law. We have submitted a number of amendments, really well-intentioned to point out some of the solutions that we think may be not covered by this proposal, and perhaps we have seen solutions to some of the problems in a different way, with which you will agree. My colleagues talked about the importance of trade, like business branches. In addition, as per the volume of traffic, gross domestic product, by the number of persons employed in trade, which is about 200 thousand. The amendment of this law should help them, the trade to live, that our merchants can continue to work, to break out of that, you know, there's been a major fall in traffic, to deal with losses. 2008 to 2011, losses doubled. In 2008, 26.5%, in 2011, 55.3%, we don't have data for 2012, because they haven't come out yet because of the final accounts. But what's for sure is that it's not a good current state of affairs, that it's hard to do business, that we should fight for every job, for every store, and that we simply improve the working conditions. Certain solutions from the current law have not come into practice, you said so, and we agree with you and we need to change them. Some solutions should be improved and individual solutions improved, in the sense that administrative barriers to business for business operators will simply be thrown out. One of the key changes, which is indeed commendable, is an obstacle to investment in the field of trade in the form of studies, the impact on large trading formats, and you yourself said that this did not in practice come into life, that even if there were no demands, ie. that there was no application. Our fear is unique, and we believe that there should be some kind of protection so that there is no monopoly. The Competition Protection Act defined that 40% of the participation of a particular economic operator in trade on the relevant geographical market, so that is the limit for monopoly participation, should not exceed 40%. And we believe that they should turn around, when such large formats are opened, the Commission for Protection and Competition of the Republic of Serbia and that the Commission has a reasonable response to whether, within a reasonable period, after an analysis of the market share of the company, whether or not on a particular territory of local self-government, there may be a monopoly to protect all participants, all traders, both small and large, in a certain territory. I'd look back on one of the biggest problems in the store, it's a gray economy. Previous colleagues have talked about it, it is indeed the biggest obstacle to the development of trade in Serbia. My colleague gave you some data that concerns the grey economy, which is how much, as far as VAT is going from goods trafficking, some estimates are from 540m euros to 800m euros, that there are different estimates of grey economy traffic from 2.7 billion to 4.6 billion euros per year. These really aren't negligible sums. I think that we should put an accent on the control of large distribution centres, see how these large quantities even get into our market, how this distribution is carried out in these large quantities, and I think that this is one of the key problems and that the state needs to figure out a way to come up with some strategy on how to solve this problem, through an adequate legal framework, an effective judiciary and the introduction of control of goods flows, from customs to placing on the market. Most EU countries, as well as Russia, China, Canada and some other countries, distribute larger quantities of goods in the gray zone, treat it as organised crime, and suppress it with enhanced control measures and rigorous criminal policies covering high fines, prison sentences and confiscation of property to winemakers. I think we need to deal with this issue, think about some harsher criminal measures and maybe even the code introduces that it might be organized crime, just try to stop it and reduce that grey economy to a level that isn't going to be at the present one. My colleagues also talked about the inspection. The problems we have, as far as inspection is concerned, are not the inspector's problem, but appropriate regulations and procedures. We have a non-compliance inspection. We know that as far as trade is concerned, and it's a market inspection, then we have inspections like sanitary, veterinary, agricultural, environmental, all of them staying in buildings. I hope you know that according to some research, it's said that in small shops the inspection stays 17 days a year, more than 32 days a year. There should be control, the inspection should be present, but it burdens the work, especially if not all the rules of inspection are in line and they should not only be there to watch, that the trader fears whether there will be some punishment, that the arrival of the inspection will entail loss for that trade. It should be placed on prevention and education. Preventive means that all the irregularities seen and not directly damage the budget of the Republic of Serbia, or not some more serious offense, should be shown to them, that they are given a reasonable time limit to correct it. So, to make co-operation between the inspection and the merchants. What we have noticed, looking at the amendments and additions to this law, is Article 11, which refers to a member of the 43rd current law, is regulation of trade time, where local self-government is given according to a new proposal to determine the working time of trade facilities. We think that a valid solution is a better solution and that it should remain unchanged, because both domestic and foreign investors, when investing and when they want to open facilities, information about working time is important for them to create a business plan and their costs, depends on how many shifts will be done, how many workers will be needed. We think that if they need to collect this information from local self-government to local self-government, if it's prone to change, it's not good. It is better to legally determine when they work, and that as previously envisaged, local self-government can, by specificity, determine whether or not to extend working time, to move sooner or later, depending on the need of a particular local self-government. The changes and some of our suggestions we've suggested will be spoken by my colleague. I won't talk about it anymore because of the weather. I will conclude that we really wanted to point out some of our observations, to improve this law because it is extremely important, I say, because of a trade that is an extremely important business branch in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10880	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dragana Djukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10881	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as we know, the current Trade Act was passed in 2010. After months of public debate and years of work on drafting the act, traders in Serbia have received a law that is in practice, let's say, quite applicable. Since the majority of the population in our country and trade, and following the abolition of taxis and various charges for traders through a set of financial laws adopted in this Assembly late last year, the proposed amendments and additions to the Trade Act will certainly lead to the improvement of the business environment. Moreover, the most significant amendments to this law are the reduction of administrative barriers, the erasure of impact studies, the abolition of administrative procedures, so public agencies and the introduction of a specific form of legal protection due to unfair competition. This law also abolishes specific conditions for employees, gives greater authority to units of local self-government and introduces so-called. a unique kepo book related to the transport of objects. Amendments to Article 43(4) The law on trade will significantly extend the powers of local self-government to regulate working time, in line with the municipal order of local self-government. When it comes to reducing the so-called. administrative barriers, this also implies the delivery of a prescribed form with data relating to the transport and structure of the trading network, which has so far been burdened by all traders, which has additionally burdened business since traders had to supply data within certain deadlines while the changes now refer to precisely targeted, i.e. targeted data and certain categories of traders. One of the most important, if not the most important, amendment of the Law on Trade is precisely the abolition of the impact study on the structure of the market, i.e. the erasure of Article 45. The law of trade. The current law has been applied for more than two years and during this period the impact study for commercial facilities, whose total sales and storage space is more than 2,000 square metres, obviously has not produced the expected results, or simply the concept has not been well-designed, and the best proposed solution is, therefore, the abolition of that study. In line with the goals of rationalisation and austerity measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and through these amendments and additions to the Law on Trade, the existence of a public agency, or the Centre for Trade Development, is lifted, leading to a reduction in budget spending and thus improving the situation in the financing of the Republic of Serbia. These amendments introduce a special form of legal protection because of unfair competition and, in fact, as the minister has already said, for the first time in our trade to introduce one of these forms of legal protection of business reputation through a lawsuit for immaterial damage. These amendments and additions to the Trade Act should certainly be supported in the voting day for reasons which will facilitate trade development and introduce even better order in this sector. This adoption of the proposed amendments and additions to the Trade Act can only contribute to the development of this sector and, in part, to the development of the entire country. Since, of course, it says in its explanation, no additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget will be needed, there is no reason not to adopt the Law on Trade with all these improvements proposed to amend and supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10882	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10883	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will, among other things, begin to join the criticisms given by my colleagues before that, and that is that we do not have an elementary plan of work, not for a week, but for a working day, which is really fascinating for this House. As long as we don't have it, I don't think we'll be able to move on at all and not talk about an EU. We're not here for that. We're here for an amendment to the Trade Act. As the Committee on Economic Affairs said, the aim of the law is to improve the business environment, to specify the provisions of the Law on Trade, which was adopted in 2010, and to come into force in early 2011, to reduce certain administrative procedures, i.e. obstacles, as stated and as all my colleagues have already said. These are several members relating to the impact study on the market structure, the abolition of the Trade Development Centre, the delivery of certain traffic data and market structure forms, etc. Somewhere, the minister said the aim of these changes is to liberalise the market and abolish the restrictive provisions that existed in the Law on Trade. In any case, we support and fully agree with the liberalisation of the market, but certainly up to some certain limit, and not entirely with the abolition of certain restrictive provisions, but in the part that they are not completely abolished, but in some ways simplified, to get much more quality provisions and better enforce the law, and that it can serve as a purpose to protect traders and to trade as a business branch, which employs the largest number of people from all branches of the economy, is simply developing, improving to make even more people work precisely in this business branch. We heard that the amendments to the law, I wouldn't repeat it, came here before MPs without consulting and with the Union of employers of Serbia, but also with the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises. In that Union, the employers of Serbia, as I understand it, are representatives of almost all, i.e. most large and medium-sized trades and major associations of small traders, so I would not agree that their opinion is negligible. But in any case, I believe there will be more changes to this law. What my colleague was talking about, it's the biggest problem we have and I don't know if it's even solved by this law, and that's the problem of trade in the gray zone. We have this legal trade and we have this one in a gray zone that represents an unsettled problem for now. I don't think the amendments to this law have been resolved either: black market traffic, you've heard how big it is, so that it can possibly cover the deficit in the Republic of Serbia's budget. There is lost to VAT, as the colleague said, but also to taxes and contributions, profit tax, excise duties and other taxes and fees. Also, I'd point out that for example. trade in black animal meat and milk products can be extremely harmful to human health, especially because agricultural and veterinary inspections do not examine these products at all, so that there may be major problems. We have no clear plan, no system in development and promotion of trade, as one of the most important industries, nor this law that needs to be systematic, or these changes change something in that. We know that where the provisions are not precise, where they are not clear, there is room for manipulation, and then simply the law itself cannot serve the purpose and could fail. Over 500,000 people are working on black, working undeclared, and there's a lot of revenue lost. Inspectors and departments don't do their job well. We believe and have already spoken to my colleagues, but it certainly is not a waste to repeat that the work of inspection services should be improved in any case, for example. to unite all inspection services, not to be in different places, in different ministries, but to unite within one institution. We think that market inspection is one of the most important links within the Ministry that can make even better and even more sure to prevent this unfair competition. I would also point out that the market inspection in the past year has submitted 4.425 requests for the initiation of proceedings before the competent courts where they have found that there are certain irregularities in the course of trade. However, we know what our judiciary is, quite slowly and these processes must be quite difficult and difficult, so I really think that the work of the inspection is one of the most important elements to improve, in order for trade to survive in Serbia at all and possibly improve. By law on trade, which we have now received a proposal for changes, jurisdiction in curbing the gray economy has been transferred to local self-governments which, as many believe, and we consider among other things, local self-government does not have enough capacity, and perhaps there is not enough interest to deal with occasionally with these people, who are thus employed in this black trade, etc., so it is quite difficult for local self-government to fight. That's why it's so much better, I'm going back to that inspection that should be done more, more seriously and systematically. I would also like to point out here that concerns about setting up gigs and similar things in local self-government have taken over municipal inspections. For example, the municipal inspection in the municipality of Chatin, where I come from, has only one employee, because we have 16,000 inhabitants and according to this law on the maximum number of employees in the state administration, we only have one assigned to these jobs, and in Zlatibor comes over 300,000 people a year and we have a huge number of weights, sellers who are in markets, streets and sell their products. It's just that one inspector can't handle it, and the municipal police are all we have in the cities, we don't have in the municipalities. They were not taken into account at all the specificities of certain municipalities, e.g. tourist municipalities. Is this Chaetina, Vranjačka Banja, Sokobanja, Brus, Raska, who may have a municipal inspection. Therefore, other laws should also work, i.e. to have certain provisions that would improve and improve trade development. As for the other provisions and amendments to the law, we responded to the amendments. There may be more to be dealt with by simplifying certain procedures, but there is no way that certain provisions should be abolished without alternative and without objective. The cause of Serbia's poor rating among investors is exactly the business environment we want to improve these amendments to the law. Some of our wishes, government wishes, and so on, and the other results have been achieved. There's a really big disproportion. What's most important and what they resent most about us, regardless of what we have a low labour price and we have lower taxes than countries in the environment, it's certainly a lack of rule of law and judicial protection to a large extent. So again on some third or fourth sides, judicial reform also has a significant impact on the good application of this law. When we talk about trade, we can re-connect to the construction industry. In the second half of the previous year, 20% increased the price of construction material. We have problems with product placement, especially in these smaller shops and the state has to find a way to help. I think we should have dealt with this law by changing focus from illegal traders to legal ones. We know it's a symbolic punishment, if you get into a situation to punish one of the illegal shop dealers, 3,000 to 5,000 dinars and so forth. These inspections are constantly carried out in those legal ones, i.e. those who operate, and they are registered in stores and the like. They always find something to punish, and those who work on black, stop unpunished, and for example, they happen to have over 10,000 euros worth of goods on their gigs. What we need to do is remove legal uncertainty and every possibility of corruption. Our goal as an MP, i.e. the Government and the Ministry of Trade, should be to provide everyone with the possibility that they have an interest in working in accordance with the law. We've kind of never done that before, because we see by employers how many stores and workers there are, how much traffic on the market is on black. As for the Center for Trade Development, which is abolished by these amendments to the law, I just wanted to ask a question – who's going to do it now? How many employees were there? What's going to happen to those employees? When it is proposed that this centre be revived in 2010, it is said that it should be engaged in development and professional business from market and trade development, to define economic policy measures, because only through the possession of adequate reliable data on the state of trade and professional analysis of the same, trade development can be improved, transactions related to strategic market development, trade, market monitoring, market development, analysis, models, proposals, efficient planning, etc. It's all on the website, and I read it. I'm interested in how this is going to happen now, and did we give up our goals if we shut down this center ourselves? It is similar with the study that should have defined, i.e. to show an impact on the structure of the market for these commercial facilities over 2,000 square meters. When this term was introduced, it is said – we have introduced to prevent potential agreements between trading entities in certain market areas so as not to achieve monopoly positions and to focus development towards achievement, consumer interest and development of competitiveness. The same question – did we give up the goal if we abolished this study? However, we should also take care of these traditional trades, family activities that, however, employ the largest number of people in the area of trade. I would like to point out that, and I mean trade, and I would like to hear what you think about how much trade itself will reflect and the application of the SAA, that is, at this point in time of the transitional trade and trade agreement? Customs duties have been reduced from 1 January to zero for certain industrial products – rubber, rubber, rubber, plastic, aluminium, copper, fur and some of the construction materials, new and used cars, from the beginning of 2014, even to 96% to 97% of agricultural products will have the possibility of free imports, as well as industrial products. How to improve industry if we are to lower the prices of industrial products in Serbia, for example, fresh fruit, vegetables, cereals, meat, milk, dried plums, spices etc.? Customs duties will not be completely abolished in early 2014, but will be reduced by 20% to 80% of the existing customs duties. It's going to affect the trade sector, and that's what I said, and I'm curious about what size? Are we, in any case, going to completely derail that store and reduce the number of employees in the store? Surely in the coming period, with this policy and the increase in taxes, the situation will be that more and more of these trades will be closed. In the end, I would just like to say what I mentioned earlier, which is that the energy of all the industries has to be in place to improve the development of trade. For example, trade as a tourist offer can be in all major European and world metropolises. Income from trade accounts for 25% to 50% of total public spending. So, for example, in Zlatibor, we have a really great interest in having this area arranged, so that the inspection works well so that people who come would not be satisfied with that trade and that kind of service when they come on vacation. Also, planning infrastructure is of paramount importance for quality trade development. We must, both the synergy of all economic branches and the law to use, to prepare, create and organise, so that the trade that employs the most workers in the economy in Serbia will advance and improve the legal system, the work of inspections, what is essential, and of course, equal opportunities for all and that is the basis for all to have an interest in working by law. It should be the goal of this law and it should be our goal for every law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10884	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10885	Madam Chairman, Mr. Ljajic, I cannot say as a representative of the opposition that you are a good minister, but I can as a member of the DS that you are the best minister in this government. First, when I look at it, it's not a practice for us from the opposition to praise any minister of this government. I have to tell you that you're the minister who arrived at the meeting just in time today. You were exactly at seven o'clock in this room, showing respect for both the MPs and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, unlike many of your colleagues. On the other hand, you, Mr. Ljajic, are the best minister, not because you're sitting in a bad government and a bad environment. Here, when you look at, let's say, your MP group and you look at other parliamentary groups, except for my colleagues from another ruling party, all those who sat in the front row, are now slowly coming to meetings as state secretaries. So all the ministers have already picked up their deputies for state secretaries and other functions. These people have been sitting here since day one in the same system as they are, and you've continued to run the Ministry with those people you found, because you wanted to continue the continuity of these reform processes at the Ministry of Trade. That's good. On the other hand, as a member of the Democratic Party, as president of the opposition party, I cannot help but notice that there are certain gaps when it comes to trade, but not because of your leadership of this resolution, not because of this bill that you are making and which we will not support here, depending on how it develops and debates on amendments, but because when we look back at the situation in Serbia, it was a lot of saying that our trade is in big problems because of the monopoly, that our trade is in big problems because of the very high prices of food, the food products, that this is the thing that the Democratic Party is leading, that this is the thing of the monopoly of a domestic trade chain. Meanwhile, there have been major structural changes, not only political changes in Serbia, there have been changes that one trade chain has been privatised. On the other hand, competition is quite improved, but when you compare prices, when you look at border crossings, you still see our citizens going to buy food in Segedin and even Budapest. The ones coming back from Greece from a summer full of car trunks you see with food products. So, food is still expensive in Serbia. There's obviously a problem here. It is a good announcement that the Lidl trade chain will come to Serbia. It is good that IKEA is coming to Serbia and that you are creating ambience conditions, legal frameworks for these traders to come and that these trade chains are being opened, but there is a big question for this government -- which is why, despite numerous accusations at the expense of the Democratic Party, that we have provided and provided a monopoly, which is why today, when this monopoly is no longer present, is depicted in a domestic trade chain, which is why our citizens continue to go abroad to buy food products, and why is it increasingly expensive here at action sales rather than abroad? I do not want to advertise any products or any producer, but look at something sold to us in actions and how these actions look in trade chains in Hungary, Croatia and in some other developed EU countries. When we talk further about this law... Well, I can't make examples, because I can't advertise any. You're wrong, and it's not nice to throw, but I'll explain it to you after the debate, because I greatly respect your opinion, so I'm going to give you examples of what it is, where and how cheaper it is in action. Besides, you have a consumer website. One thing bothers me, Mr. Ljajic, when it comes to the adoption of this law, which is that certain people sitting with you in the government, certain political parties, have no courage and courage, and to bring you up to speed, but to find their own portfolios, through the mouths of certain unions, associations, associations, and then they very unprincipledly criticise this law of yours. First of all, you didn't create this law, these are only amendments to one law, as you said, which was passed in 2010 and which were imposed through the practice of implementing that law. Every political party, whether in the government, whether it is in opposition, has the right to criticise both your account and the expense of the people who pass the law. They do not have to speak through the mouth of some organizations, associations, professional associations, to find their paid portfolios, but they can make clear their objections to the law and say – we like that there is no public debate, we like that there is a public debate. I see here that the Union of Employers has announced that you, without consulting the legal representatives of the economy, have submitted a proposal to the National Assembly to amend and supplement the Law on Trade. I must say that I am personally as a People's MP informed, as well as my colleagues of all the debates that have been conducted when it comes to this law. I remember when a trade strategy was developed, when the first trade law was drafted in 2010. I was then a member of the Trade and Tourism Committee. Do you know how long the debate took? A year. All those who had objections, suggestions, the possibility of affecting this law, had the opportunity to do so, so I really think that these unwitting criticisms when certain political parties have on the political ground, in the space of Serbia's political scene certain of their portfolios, which as speakers of some other policy, should stand behind their words, not to put masks and hide behind other organisations or other institutions. We've heard that this is a buffalo government or a polyphalantic government, and it's personally from the prime minister, but, you know, about some important strategic documents being brought in, there's got to be some harmony and consistency. Someone can't perform with an important strategic document or law by supporting you here in parliament, but as soon as they get out of this room, they find ways to obstruct and plant the wheels under the wheels in various ways. When we're talking about this law at all, I think it's a good idea to create ambience conditions for bringing new trade chains. Will this study of the impact on the market structure of the abolition of the obligation or will it not contribute to the development of trade chains in Serbia? Well, it certainly will reduce bureaucratic obstacles. On the other hand, whoever wanted to open the chain of commerce didn't have much of an obstacle from local self-government. Local self-government is simply being hijacked for any investment, and for years back we have been speeding up consumer mentality, because here they were interested mainly traders to come, but it's important to take care of small traders, small independent trades, because it doesn't matter whether 20, 30 small trades, which are held by once 60 families, close or not close overnight, but I think this abolishing the obligation to make a study on the impact on the structure of the market for areas of more than 2,000 m2 is one good decision. It will not have a more significant impact on these things regarding the closure of small independent trades, because the average facility which, for example, Lidl will open in Serbia is 1,500 m2. They're the size of these little supermarkets. Large trade chains that open in two, three, four thousand square metres are first more and more shown to be inert in Serbia's cities. I come from Kruševec and I know where I buy and what I buy. Speaking of Kruševac, I notice great illogicality and will be supported by all my colleagues coming from the region, from Vrnjaka Banja, from Kruševac, from Trstenik. When I happen to come to the market on Vidikovec, for example, in Belgrade, you can buy whatever you want from deodorant, pomade, hygiene, home chemistry, everything. In Krushevec, these people go after them pretty much when they take it out to the market. It's about the poorest citizens, the poorest layers of our society. These people seek the protection of the MPs as the government changes. If we're in power, then they go to the opposition, if we're in opposition, then they go to us. Which party is in opposition, they come to him and try to leave something for themselves and say – excuse me, how is it that we are not being chased in Pancheva, they are not chasing us in Belgrade, they are not chasing us on Vidikovec, on Kalenić, but they are chasing us in Cačak, Kruševec, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja? This uneven archin, where some people in some parts of Serbia can do something, in some they can't, is not good. On the other hand, I need to mention a few more very important things that are important for improving the economic environment. You're also taking over here as part of the Ministry one intelligence that's good. I think the Ministry has the full capacity to take you over, and it concerns eradicating this mall for the development of trade and the takeover of these assets of the Trade Development Centre by the Ministry. I think the ministry has enough capacity to take over that mall for the development of trade. These are very important jobs, both for traders and for citizens, because they refer to analysis and development of markets and trade. I don't think there's gonna be any problem. Of course, I'll support you in further good work. I think you've shown yourself in these years, not only in this short period at the Ministry of Trade, but in those other sectors, where you took responsibility for the management of that sector. As a good minister behind you, there have never been an affair, some questions and questions that would burden your political biography or relations within the coalition. I think you'll make a good contribution as Minister of Trade. I will appeal to you to continue, when you establish trade bilateral relations with the countries of the world, you are one of the few real representatives and ambassadors of the Serbian economy at the moment, because unfortunately some other institutions, which have done this job in the previous period, are no longer in those places, and those who were ambassadors of the economy, who have calmed us with the world and opened the door, are now slowly sharing the same world, arguing with that world, compromising us, closing the doors that we have opened. On the other hand, there are people like the Deputy Prime Minister who open up some other markets of our country and the whole world, and that's good. We generally don't have much confidence in this government and its capacity to do this job and for now you're one of the few light points that this job of our ambassador, the ambassador of our economy, is working in a valid way, you will have full support in this work. Of course, this law, which the DS prepared in 2010, we voted it. That's when I talked all the best about that law. I think it's good, it's reform. Now those who criticized him that year must vote for him. For last, of course, what I did. I have prepared the stenographic notes to remind you a little about how colleagues from the ruling majority were then discussing this law that will now be voted on here. Since there's no TV transmission, and I'm already talking for 13 minutes, maybe I'll leave it to you when there's a TV transmission. I see that my esteemed colleague and friend is speeding me up to say that now. It's much better when there's television transmissions, than now believe it, they need citizens to see how you behave when you're an opposition, and how when you're in power and that when you're in opposition, there's something wrong with you, but when you sit in a chair, everything's good just to sit in a chair as long as you can. That's the pleasure I'll have when we discuss the amendments. I thank you, Mr. Minister, and I support you to continue this pace along with the people sitting next to you on your team. I want you to be the ambassador of the Republic of Serbia on all horizons and all meridians, because you're doing a great job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10886	MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10887	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Law on Trade, which was voted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2010, then had one basic but most important goal, which was the development of the competition and the equality of traders, which was in line with our country's transition in general. To that end, the 2010 Trade Act brought together five groups of very important changes. I will remind, firstly, of the changes in terms of general conditions for the conduct of internal trade in the Serbian market, secondly – a modern nomenclature and classification of forms and modes of trade, thirdly – new institutes, such as trade formats, special market institutions, etc., fourthly, have been introduced – a legal framework has been introduced to improve trade, especially as a result of the establishment and preservation of the favourable structure of trade facilities and the development of entrepreneurship in general, fifthly – a reform of inspection, to be carried out, which should be carried out by market inspection. I'm not going to say in particular how market inspection did it, because that's not the purpose of this session. Dear People's MPs, it's been almost two years since this law was passed and this law is applied. What happened? Of course, certain things have happened in the application of this law, which should be amended, or amended. The state authorities of the Republic of Serbia, now and business entities, have seen certain shortcomings in its practical application, both in the field of improvement and in the improvement of certain legal solutions, as well as in the field of reducing administrative barriers to business of operators, which was one of the pre-election promises of the SNS. By passing this law in the first instance, we fulfill this pre-election promise. To this end, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has sent us this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade. What is the meaning of this law? Namely, he is wanted by the minister to remove administrative obstacles. In the first row for investment in the area of trade, thereby somehow contributing to the fight against corruption, which was a pre-election promise by the SNS. By passing these laws, especially by applying it, we will try to keep that pre-election promise. Secondly, the erasure of administrative procedures, which implies the delivery of a prescribed form with data relating to the transport and structure of the trade network for all traders. What is most important, in my view, these amendments and additions to the Law on Trade are foreseen to delete the Agency for Trade Promotion Affairs. Thus, the government of the Republic of Serbia contributes to rationalising public administration and reducing budget spending. As you know, the reduction of these agencies was one of the main pre-election promises and the SNS, and I believe the parties, as informed as I am, Mr Ljajic. However, a legal analytical mechanism is introduced with regard to the collection of certain data relating to the application of market protection measures. For example, data on goods of vital importance for our citizens, such as milk, oil, flour, etc., and what will be done by our ministry, which Mr Ljajic leads. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade has provided for other amendments that I will not speak of specifically, which have only one basic objective, which is to specify the specific formulations of the basic text of the Law on Trade, and whose objections they have made, and it is not true that they did not give, as the predecessors said, that they did not, and were giving, in the first part, local self-government, consumer protection organisations and the business community. Among the most significant newspapers are improving legal protection from unfair competition, as one of the most important negative phenomena on our Serbian market in the last, not only two years, but also for many years. This law will have a certain positive impact on all commercial operators. In the first row, to remove a series of certain concerns, to interpret certain provisions which will facilitate their business and achieve greater efficiency in work. Mr. Minister, it is not true that the public debate on this law was not comprehensive. It is very important, and it seems to me that some MPs have not read this in the light of the law that many of the factors of our economic life and the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia have been consulted in this law. I'll make them see it was transparent. These are primarily our traders, second - consumer associations, third - Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and through the Chamber of Commerce, many entities could participate, as far as I am informed, in Belgrade's Chamber of Commerce, the Foreign Investors' Union, the American Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications and the Ministry of Finance and Business, as well as the Commission for the Protection of Competition and the Professional Public. Ladies and gentlemen, we've all had a chance to influence the making of this law. Finally, I will mention that this law is in line with EU legislation, which is very important. Before I address all of us, MPs, allow me, Mr Minister, to thank you in my personal name for the quick answer to the parliamentary question that you have delivered very precisely and in time, with which I am very pleased. To that end, I call on all the MPs, regardless of whether we are a position or opposition, to cast a vote in the voting day or to vote in favour of this very consistent and transparent law on trade, because by doing so all together will at least contribute a little bit to the improvement of the overall trade and economic relations in our society and give our little, we as MPs, but a very significant contribution to the overcoming of this difficult economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10888	Thank you. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10889	Dear President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, Mr Rasim Ljajic, fellow Members and fellow MPs, are ahead of us to amend and supplement the Law on Trade. Like any law that comes into congregation procedure, it is not only one but also the work of other ministries and my discussion will be directed in that direction. We've already heard that the current law was passed in 2010. To remind you, this law is essential for Serbian citizens and owners and employees of trade and businesses, so I join the appeal of all colleagues and colleagues for holding a session of the Republika Srpska Assembly on such an important topic at such a time and without television transmission. What do the citizens of our country expect from this law? First of all, the measures to ease the difficult economic situation. I'll explain later how much the price increase was in the previous period and how much the cost of the consumer basket is at the moment. What do store owners and businesses expect? First of all, a fair competition, prevention of monopoly, more favourable credits, job opening subsidies, reduction of unfair competition, more up-to-date work of inspection services, reduction of unnecessary taxis, permits and various inspection solutions. I come from eastern Serbia, where there aren't many large trade chains or supermarkets and there's this information about a large number of small shops. When you go around that end and see what kind of problems these people face, how many permits and solutions they need to obtain, and what the behavior of certain inspection bodies towards the owners of these companies, it's just amazing how these people even survive to work, meaning, out of various curtain orders, to get some machines in these shops and something not only about market inspections, but also other inspection controls. Often we, as MPs, when we visit these people, encounter such problems. Why is this law related to all other businesses, and only micro-small and medium-sized enterprises exist from the economy in Serbia? We have never systemically reformed or made a new law on the Development Fund, and even credits obtained from banks for the development of micromal and medium-sized enterprises are very unfavourable for these people, according to the owners of the company. That's why I'm saying it. To get a loan from a bank or any institution that provides funds and subsidies, you must first have incredibly large traffic, almost for double. So, as the first item, you look at the bonus and that's one of the conditions to get a loan. If you're looking for a 100 000-euro loan, you should have a 150,000-euro turnover, and then goes the biggest toothpick – a mortgage. For example, for Belgrade, you need to have twice the value of capital or mortgage in order to get credit. If we assume that the World Bank's loan is half a percent, I don't see that the government in this configuration does not pass one system law that would allow these people less interest rates and more favourable conditions with the National Employment Service. Why do I say that? To hire a worker, he gets 150 or 160,000 dinars of subsidies for an employee. If we know that for foreign companies, I'm not against foreign investors coming, just work, but if there are 10 000 euros in subsidies, I don't see why our companies can't have that amount? The second thing, if we are talking about even regional development, is that in this sense we should also take care of all areas in Serbia that are primarily underdeveloped. What improvements this law makes, we have heard - the possibility that a trader will press charges for unfair competition, the keeping of electronic records, the lifting of the obligation to make an impact study on the structure of the market, the erasure of a member who provides for the establishment of a mall for the development of trade, and that's all good in this law. What is, again, I return to what this law has to do with other laws and the work of other ministries, which is that on average in Serbia 43.7% of the monthly income of our citizens goes to food, but only the most basic bread, milk, yogurt and some cheaper meat processing while meat consumption has fallen. Serbia is almost three times the EU's poverty. The social picture is even more difficult if the high unemployment rate that exceeded 25%, low pensions or late employee salaries is considered. Inflation is, we've heard, 12.5%, which makes us Europe's recordmakers. The consumption of meat compared to the previous three months dropped by 50%, while everything was accumulated by meat, milk, fuel, pasta, home chemistry, directories, conditor products. Then it is quite clear that consumer purchasing power has recently dropped by at least 30%. That's all this government has to do for a simple reason, I'm saying, that every law is connected to other laws and of course you can't bring into one ministry some extensive system law that can help that. Since you're in the opening statement, that's all I'm saying, you mentioned that the law also applies to the sale of vehicles, that is. I've been complained about by several owners of such companies who sell vehicles, and also betray them, so they provide services, rent vehicles. What's going on with them? I think you could do it in the government to get rid of it systemically, which is that the owner of a car rental when he gives a vehicle to a person and that person runs off with a vehicle abroad, can't practically recover the full amount of the price of that vehicle. It's just amazing that even under customs regulations, there's no document that anyone who's taken over the vehicle has rented it. He's free to go across the border. Insurance doesn't get enough funding and these people are also in trouble. I think all of us together in the assembly, so I say that these important laws should be discussed in the afternoon. It takes a lot more time to devote the economy to both micro and small and medium-sized enterprises. That's Serbia's future. God forbid there's a lot of investment, and there's strangers coming, and they're investing in our neighborhood, but I think that the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and even small and medium-sized shops that deal with trade, is very important to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10890	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10891	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs and MPs, did not report when it was the turn for the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, where we discussed this draft law in principle. It is a good thing I came forward now in the end, given that we heard all the statements of the parliamentary groups and representatives, because at that session the representatives of DS and LDP were not present. We have come to understand here that they will support the proposal for these amendments and the addition of the law, as Minister Ljajic has received great commendation from DS lawmakers. I would not repeat myself, in terms of this law and support except that we can say that it represents one big step in improving the business environment and the investment creation of the investment environment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also in increasing the flow of goods and services on our market. What's important is to say, which is that at this point, when we talk about trade, we think about the goods most, and we have the service sector somewhere very much represented. Otherwise, in the world economy, it represents over 60% of the total economy. That is why the service sector is very interesting at all, and I think that this amendment and supplementation has in some ways given the country a chance to further develop this sector. What's interesting is that we encourage healthy competition through these laws of change. We seem to have forgotten the situation from two, three years ago when there was a chain of trade on the Serbian market, which was called "Delta", which directly dictated by its existence and work the prices of food, which were twice the prices of food products in EU countries. Let me remind you that this is no longer the case, that this opens up the possibility that this competition exists, and therefore these prices should fall. It is true that there are 53% of small businesses. It's perfectly normal that where larger cities are that there are larger trade chains, and that in smaller cities where this unbalanced regional development is that there are no elements for the development of large trade chains. That's why we have to keep small shops safe. Finally, I would say that there is a great mood for a Swiss consultant from Geneva, the World Trade Organisation to jointly, here with the Ministry of Trade, the Committee for Economic, Regional Development, Trade and Energy to maintain a public hearing in which we will prepare ourselves for the adoption of conditions from new legal solutions for entering the World Trade Organisation. Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are the only countries that are not members of this World Trade Organisation in addition to 159, but there is therefore a good will of the World Trade Organisation to educate, through their consultants, MPs first of all, on what are the advantages Serbia would get by joining the World Organisation. Therefore, we are willing to maintain a public hearing that will be precisely under the name of this topic, "comparative advantages of Serbia's entry into the World Trade Organisation". I would be willing to call all MPs of all the parliamentary groups. I hope the ministry will support it since this project opens for the next three years, that in about a month and a half, with this public hearing, we start this big business that will last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10892	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded... Replica? (John Jovanovic, from the place: Yes. You're right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10893	I apologize to the chairman, I really regret wasting my time with my present colleagues and Mr. Minister, but this is not the first time that Mrs. Chairman of the Committee on Economics is calling members of the DS Committee. It took you as an experienced colleague, you've been to the National Assembly before, to explain to her that the opposition is not obliged to give a quorum on committees and is not obliged to attend the vote for the ruling majority's proposals. When opposition MPs feel they should attend board meetings, they attend. Yesterday, at the time of holding the board, we had an important session, also amendments to the laws on agriculture, on rural development and subsidies in agriculture, and many of these MPs, who are members of the Committee on Economy, are members or deputies of the Committee in these resolutions. For this reason, they felt it was important to attend this principle session, and I think it's wrong that when you wear a badge, you have one archaic, and when you take off the badge, you have other archaics. I will remind you, SNS MPs, once the SRS did not attend the committee sessions while the opposition was in this House and I ask you not to call MPs from the DS no longer to be offended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10894	I think this was in the heat, to say, that as chairman of the board, she felt sorry for you not being present with her board, but you've already chosen some other committee. I'm interpreting it that way and I'm asking you to understand it that way. I hope that this debate, which was in good spirit, has really been given a constructive good debate in this House. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10895	I thank the president for his explanation, but I don't think we should be maligned, we were really trying to be constructive in this debate, and we didn't want these incidents to happen. I think they're incidents and they shouldn't be repeated. That's why I criticized my colleague, because this isn't the first time this has happened. As far as DS is concerned, we've been given the explanations we asked for and we will support this amendment and the addition of the law. I just want to say that it is important that institutions and system laws change in this way, that they be discussed and as much consensus determined. It is not good for these discussions to take place at midnight, at a time that is not appropriate or in the 12th, thirteenth session. That's what I was talking about. What is most important for Serbia, for the citizens of Serbia and for those who are most interested in having this law successfully implemented, and these are both trade owners and citizens themselves, is that Serbia as a state is stable politically and institutionally, in order to ultimately have a better rating with foreign investors. That's the only way we're gonna make sure that foreign investors come in here and open any sales chain. It won't even help us lift some of the studies we've had in our last bill of law. It will not bring them, it will bring only the changes in our society that are necessary. So we need to strengthen institutions, not politicize them. It's something to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10896	Thank you. Mr Ljajic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10897	In the end, I would like to thank all the participants in this debate sincerely. I can tell you that all the remarks you made were in place, and those were the remarks that we were seriously considering when we proposed the final version of the changes. First of all, I mean what Mrs. Gorica Gajic pointed out in her presentation and whether the dilemma is to end an expert appraiser or not. It is for us a dilemma. Whether local self-governments miss out on a regular basis, is a dilemma, but when we finally analyzed everything and heard the proposal, it still exceeded what we finally identified as proposing in the amendments to this law. I'm not going to change the colourfulness of working time by keeping the current solution because we had this colourfulness, because we only determined by regulation that framework, and yet local self-government determined the final working time on the territory of these municipalities. Thus, in this way we have left complete responsibility to them, but I honestly do not expect any major problems. What you've all pointed out, and what I have to admit, I have no answer for, and where I would agree with you, that's an inspection problem. It's not just a market inspection problem. Generally, we have to decide on one of the two solutions when it comes to inspections. Or we will have a general inspectorate that will unite all inspections, for which, right away, there is a serious resistance to all existing inspection services, literally there is their consensus. Or we'll have one solution, if we had current reformed inspections with a significant co-ordination role of a common organ, so this wouldn't happen, I think someone mentioned it well, and we've heard this data that's in place, that in small objects you have 17 days a year to stay in inspection services, 32 days in large trading facilities. One day market inspectors, the second sanitary, the third day labour inspectors visit them, and we have to deal with that. And before that, we have to pass one new inspection law, as a prerequisite for what I've been talking about, but it's crucial to define ourselves for one of these two models, because the current state, in reality, is unsustainable and that market inspection is no better or worse than others. We have a problem with our average age in market inspection for 48 years. So, inspectors who are used to working on one model and now it's objectively difficult to modernise the entire inspection service overnight. I think the solution would be to select one of these two models of reforming the country's entire inspection service. As for the questions concerning the Centre for Trade Development, who will take the role – the ministry will take over with an existing number of employees. So there will be no receiving new people to do that job. The goals remain absolutely identical, we just felt that we should choose a cheaper and more efficient way to collect all of the data in that aggregate information system. I want to thank Mrs. Tomic about what she mentioned about the World Trade Organisation. Now I'm a little abuser of your time, but I have to, because there's an unprecedented campaign going on here. I don't mean parliament here, but there is an unprecedented public campaign, literally, against Serbia's WTO accession, under the pretext that we will flood our market with GMO products. Neither will we change the law on production, nor will we allow the production of GMOs. We want to be admitted to the WTO under all the same conditions under which other countries were admitted, in the same way that Russia became part of the WTO after 18 years of negotiations, no less than that, no smaller or larger conditions than these. We want to be part of that organization. Please, only 13 countries are not members of the WTO and have no intention. Of those 13, believe me, if you read them, I'm sure you haven't even heard half of them exist. And we're fine with those states. I can't believe someone could run that kind of campaign. It's literally a brutal campaign. These are the portfolios of certain interest groups, tycoon organizations that have been paid to run that kind of campaign. You're all quiet because it's unpopular to confront something that's naked true. It is true what I said, that we will not allow production, that we will actually allow such a law that will be equally restrictive for importing such food, as brought by Switzerland, Austria, Russia, but restrictive enough, with a whole series of restrictions that will practically bring such food under restrictions, as exists in all developed European countries. This may also be an opportunity for us to discuss it completely, because there are also ignorances here on the one hand, I mean the public, but also how there are representations of certain stakeholders. That's more than clear. I invite you to participate in this debate, because it is important. We want to be part of the WTO this year. In June, Bosnia will become that, and we will remain, with these 13 countries, out of the world. I believe we can agree on that and reach agreement. I'm sorry I wasted this time, but I thought this was important to tell you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-01-23-0.u10898	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. For today, we finish our work and continue tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Thank you.
