ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24886	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 85 MPs, or at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the MPs of today’s day, have the right to request information and explanations. Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, come forward for a word? The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24887	Mr. President, in the days of Serbia's entire funeral of Jovanka Broz, from Greece, we have the cry of the last guardian of the Serbian great sanctuary coming from the Serbian cemetery, where the remains of 8,000 Serb soldiers have been carried over by their heroism, who have overestimated themselves and indemnified generations and all of us people's representatives. The last of the lineage of Mihajlovic, after Sava, Đura, Djordje Mihajlovic, who is a curator, a guard, a man who has spent his whole life in the maintenance of a Serb military cemetery, who was born in a cemetery, who has been in charge of the cemetery for more than 50 years, receives tourists, knows every temple, knows every family in Serbia, knows the fate of every soldier whose remains are there, that the great one, Đorđe Mihajlovic, who deserves to receive from the state of Serbia the greatest medal for all that he has entrusted to us and our nation, that he simply has no one left to succeed. Djordje Mihajlovic often says more Serbian tourists visit a Serbian military cemetery in one day than an Allies cemetery for several years, and I mean a French, Italian and Russian cemetery. During World War II, Djordje Mihajlovic and his father hid books and relics from the Germans and buried them, and nothing was robbed, without talking about how much patience, love and dedication welcome anyone who comes to Greece to bow down to these Serbian giants. One more thing, while the state was more serious and responsible for these questions, a mausoleum, chapel and skeleton were made, all financed by the Kingdom. The beginning of the construction of the Serbian military cemetery and the accompanying facilities began in 1933 and ended in 1936 and the revenge was on the day of the truce in World War I, which also shows the Kingdom's commitment to the ultimate preservation of peace. The material for the construction of cemeteries and accompanying facilities is all from Serbia, a stone from Ljiga, a cement from Beocin, and Greece has donated free land to Serbia in respect of these giants and freed all customs and taxes on imported materials. If Greece has done so much for Serbia and has shown great respect for the Serb soldiers who are resting there, we think that the state of Serbia must do something to prepare the heirs and finance their stay and their work, that what Djuro Mihajlovic, Savo Mihajlovic, and what Djordje Mihajlovic, who has turned 85 years old, is continuing. Therefore, my question to Minister Rasim Ljajic, Minister of Labour, Fight and Social Affairs, since I see that he is actively involved in the funeral of the wife of the Austrian Corporal, and we will not say anything bad about the deceased, it says – will the ministry do something about this step, because time is running out? Djordje Mihajlović every day sends appeals to the homeland to fear that the next day he will welcome alive, whether he will have anyone to inherit him and whether all this stuff that I'm talking about will fall into oblivion. Although we are completely turned, i.e. in the predominant part of Serbia's future, I don't think we should forget the Serbian knights and Gjorge Mihajlovic who spent his whole life and dedicated himself to maintaining the Serb military cemetery of Serb giants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24888	The next reported word is MP Konstantin Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24889	Mr. President, my question is addressed to you. Yesterday we discussed the need to elect another vice president of the Assembly. If it matters my opinion, I'd like to say that your request is very justified in my opinion. However, this was not the reason why I was reporting and looking for an explanation, but rather the reason that today in "Politica" it was announced that one of the reasons why another vice president of the National Assembly was sought is that because of my age, I could not successfully perform certain functions or not to the extent to which the Assembly would demand it. I don't know who gave that information, but I wouldn't want to manipulate myself with my age. Although I have not consulted my parliamentary group, I would like to publicly say that if that is one of the reasons, please consult the coalition partners, my parliamentary group and I am ready to resign to that post, all in order to improve the work of the Assembly and reduce costs. I wouldn't want to be one of the reasons why the new vice president of the assembly is elected, although, I underline, I think there's some justification for this proposal you've made, but I certainly don't think personally that it's my year and my inability to work. You're here and you all know that I come to work first and I leave last. So I see no reason for someone to abuse one yet inappropriate reason. That's why I'd like to hear from you personally, just to clear that dilemma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24890	Dear Vice President, dear Costa, you know how I feel about that. I am absolutely behind what I have said many times, that I am completely proud of all the vice presidents of the assembly, that everyone is doing their job in the best possible way. Not only is this not a distraction, but sometimes your life experience is a great advantage and can help us to better manage the congregation. As far as I'm concerned, it absolutely doesn't stand. I'm sorry anyone could have thought that, and he got it in the paper. You're always welcome and I'm glad you're part of our team. National MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24891	Thank you, Mr. President. My question concerns the attempt by the National Assembly to perform its supervisory role in greater capacity and is related to the full application of the Social Protection Act, which was adopted in 2012 in this Assembly. In fact, the question concerns the fact that a regulation on dedicated transfers has not been adopted since then, although it has been two and a half years. Why does it matter? The social protection reform process began immediately after 2000, and it meant, among other things, full availability of social protection services and all social protection measures to all citizens across the Republic of Serbia. In addition, an important reform process in social protection, a process of decentralisation of social protection, has also been defined by the Social Protection Act. In the end, what is the paper in the reform process is also social protection services at the local. Why does it matter? First of all, because any service would be available to any citizen, but of course because the needs of citizens are much more visible at the place than from the central level. The documents that followed, such as the Social Protection Strategy, which was adopted in 2005 and the Social Protection Act in 2011, have established mechanisms for implementing this policy. However, in the Social Protection Act, Article 207 defines the need for dedicated transfers. They were defined as a mechanism and needed to be fully regulated standards and procedures by which dedicated transfers would be transferred to local administrations. The transitional provisions provide for a Regulation on dedicated transfers to be adopted over a period of six months. It's been two and a half years and we still don't have that regulation in front of us. Why does it matter? During the entire process in 134 municipalities, 440 services were developed that could be used by Serbian citizens. This process wasn't easy. It was necessary for municipalities to define their priorities, to make municipal decisions on the establishment of certain services, to develop capacities and municipalities and service providers at the local site and, in the end, to separate from local budgets certain funds for these services. After all this has been done, of course it is necessary for the state to help survive these services. But, unfortunately, that's not happening. Why? Because municipalities that are richer, of course, have a better opportunity to finance these services. But the dedicated transfers are now serving 40 of the most underdeveloped municipalities that have no financial, no other capacity to finance these services permanently. As a result, the State envisaged a mechanism of dedicated transfers to maintain these services. I note that these are the services that enter the accreditation process and their providers in the licensing process. So standards and procedures have been put in place so that the money for social protection is really spent on those most needed and on service providers that can best meet the needs of Serbian citizens. However, these services are now at risk. Why? Because the most underdeveloped municipalities have no money to finance these services, thus the 7,000 most vulnerable citizens in a state of social need in the most underdeveloped municipalities will be unable to continue to meet their needs. It is therefore necessary to regulate standards and procedures and to adopt a regulation on dedicated transfers. What's going on now? Why is the regulation not adopted? That's the basic question. It is impossible for the government to fail within two and a half years, i.e. the competent ministry has failed to adopt this regulation. I have verified information that the text of the regulation has been completed in the previous government. Then what's the problem? There is doubt that there may be a need for a system in this area, so that money for social protection can be misused for political purposes. Services are at risk, among other things, because of the political instability at a place where every new government is making some new organisations and funding some new services. So there are no standards and procedures, there is a space for corruption, above all for political corruption, and therefore it is necessary to bring this regulation. (President: Time. ) That's why I ask the minister – when will the regulation finally be passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24892	National MP Kenan Hajdarevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24893	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it has been two months since the reconstruction of the Serbian government, and I can freely say that the LDP positions were confirmed when we said that the reconstruction of the Serbian government was only one bypass to the elections we should expect in February and March, and that the government's reconstruction would not bring any qualitative shift in the work of the government and, most importantly, in the lives of ordinary citizens. In these two months since the reshuffle of the government, the same trend that we have been witnessing for the past 15 months continues, and it consists of the fact that the main political messages, measures, we find out as the MPs of the media. That's how we learn about austerity measures in an open session of the government, and we don't talk about it here in the Serbian Parliament. We hear from the Minister of Economy some of the measures he proposes – we are not talking about it either in the Serbian Parliament or in the Committee of Resorship or in the tide. For the last two days, we have witnessed one debate between the energy minister, on the one hand, and the economy minister, and the Serbian representative on the other hand about the difficult situation in which "Srbigas" is located. I will remind you and the public that LDP has been speaking back for years and has been saying that public enterprises cannot, and we also think of "Srbigas", to be social institutions and party prey that need to preserve social peace and that eventually this will lead to the collapse of the system. What we haven't heard in these two days, from the Minister of Energy, or from the Minister of Economy, are some concrete measures that should lead to the reconstruction of this so-called so-called. Giant ‘Srbigas’. The question of energy ministers and prime minister- why does the Serbian government, as one of the measures in the process of stabilising "Srbigas", not remove the mediator on gas imports, i.e. do not terminate the Mediator "Jurosgas"? Why does Serbia, or the government of Serbia, not launch an initiative to increase the mining rent of 3% for NIS, and 7% for others, thus providing some funds to make it possible to do better, among other things, "Serbia". Whether it is the Serbian government's fear of a threat that President Nikolic said a few days ago in a TV interview that respects the energy agreement with the Russians must continue. Instead of all this, we heard yesterday from the minister of the economy that one way to "Srbigas" out of the crisis is to convert debt into ownership. On the other hand, Prime Minister Dacic says "Srbigas" has a debt to the Russians as well. Now a concrete question to the prime minister – does this mean bringing the Russians into possession of the "Serbigas" at a small door? Is the whole story behind it that one part of the ownership of "Srbigas" becomes the property of the Russian state? The second topic that brings us together these days is so-called. Public enterprises' ID cards and restructuring firms insisting on by Minister Radulovic. One of his statements says he insists on the responsibilities of all particularly civil servants. The Liberal Democratic Party also insists on the responsibility of the government of Serbia and ministers. What did the Government of the Republic of Serbia do to respect the Law on Public Enterprises? For six months, LDP has been asking the question here in the Serbian Parliament, and we are not getting any answers from either the previous economy minister or the current economy minister. Why didn't the competitions for all the directors of public enterprises start? Why does the Serbian Government not respect the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, which obliges the removal of the boards of directors and the appointment of new supervisory committees. That it is not only the HIR of the LDP but that it costs the citizens of Serbia to show one simple figure. Disrespect for the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises costs Serbian citizens 200m dinars per year. (President: Time. () When the Serbian government begins to comply with the laws, then it can expect everyone else to respect what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24894	The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24895	I thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask the Minister of Health and I will continue to ask the health ministry a question Sunday in the hope that we will finally get some answers to the painful questions in our health care. So my question concerns the next thing. How does the Ministry of Health plan to cope with the lack of professional medical personnel in this and in the coming years in our healthcare system? How the Ministry of Health plans and what measures it plans to take to solve one of the most serious problems in our health care. Otherwise, I asked a number of questions in the previous period, but I really didn't get concrete answers, nor did I get suggestions from the Ministry on how to solve these problems, such as treating children who don't have certified health books, what to do with employees, for example. in the “FAP” of Priboj, which has not certified the booklets, as their family members lie down, as their children, their pregnant women, are treated, are born. What is the status of the dental service in Serbia, what is the status of the professional medical staff? In Serbia, there are usually 30,500 licensed doctors and about 1,600 unlicensed doctors. We have an outdated plan of a network of health institutions that does not fit the democratic structure of the population at all, does not fit the schedule and does not meet the needs of the citizens. He hasn't changed in decades. I don't see the Ministry prepared a proposal for next year. Also, we have a problem with the lack of specialists in our health system, here I'm talking about anesthesiologists, radiologists, pathologists, cardiohirism. For example, in Sapco, there are also orthopedics, surgeons, urologists, and how does the health ministry plan to deal with this problem? For the next 10 years, Serbia will lose almost 50% of its specialists. I can count you by age what it's going to look like. At this point in Serbia, there are 2700 specialists who are over 65 years old. There are 3,000 doctors aged 60 to 65. Four thousand specialists aged 55 to 60, and 4800 doctors 50 to 55. It is 14,000 doctors who will leave the health system for 10 to 12 years because of age. How will the state of Serbia react to this problem? I'd like to say a few words about how much a specialization costs in Serbia. When you collect income fees for doctors who specialize in the cost of separate lives, travel expenses, expenses per semester, exam costs, we come up with a price of almost 50,000 euros for one specialisation. When we multiply it by 14,000 necessary doctors in the future we come up with a serious problem of 700m euros. So, the 700m-euro problem this country is supposed to give the answer to, and it is the state of health of the nation. That's why I consider this one of the most serious problems we need to deal with in the future. Besides, I don't know how we're gonna pay for these specializations if those specializations are paying at this point in health care. So, one health care facility needs to refer a doctor to a specialist. In all that time, he must organize work in his absence, and at the same time pay for specialization and organize work so that someone can cover the absence of one such doctor. The Ministry and the Republic Fund won't let that happen. Put yourself in a situation of an average patient in Serbia who comes to a selected doctor and someone tells him that his chosen doctor is on vacation, or that he is on a professional training course, or that he is sick, and there is no one to replace that doctor. How will our citizens be treated? What are we giving them? I'm talking about serious problems, and I really don't see the Ministry of Health doing anything to solve this problem. So I urge that within the shortest possible time, we receive concrete answers and concrete suggestions on what is the Ministry of Health planning to take on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24896	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24897	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. President, before I ask a few questions, I will at least have to read in part what is the basis for asking questions, in order to better understand why I read it. So, we have received some MPs letter from citizens from the KIM territory, who among other things in his letter, says: "Please tell Serbia that we are being harassed by local leaders, who are appointed as temporary authorities, as well as school directors, by force to go to rallying, to support the list of "Serbia" and to vote for them. Otherwise, we are followed by cancellations in our jobs." Among other things, it is said that "they make us vote for the "Serbian" list in public, and we have to visit every rally when an official comes from Belgrade, otherwise there are lists of those present by myths and who do not come will suffer consequences. Please say this to Serbia and to all the media, to free us from torture and to this troubled people, it's a lot of pain. “ Otherwise, these pressures are exposed to workers in education and health care. This letter normally refers to the territory of the municipalities of Gjilana and Vitina. In addition to the letter, we've also received evidence that speaks of these pressures, whatever I take, it doesn't matter. For example, the notice of Director Bojan Maksimovic was made on the basis of conclusions from the joint session of the principals of primary and secondary schools and preschool institutions Gjilana, Kosovo Vitine, Kosovo Kamenica and Novi Brda, which reads this, and I will give it to you later that you can see: "all employees of the primary school "Miladin Popović" in Pasjan, informs that Saturday 19 October 2013, working day. All employees are obliged to attend the meeting of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ivica Dacic, who will be held on 19 October 2013, in so many hours, in Gracanica, starting at 14.00 hours. For all school workers, a bus ride was provided. “ Next, we have a notice to the directors of preschool institutions in the territory of the municipality of Vitin, made by the temporary authority, signed by Srdjan Nikolic, a member of the temporary body, all with blue stamps on his signature, which reads: “We are informing you that on Saturday 12 October 2013, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vulin and Dragan Glamočić are coming to Klokot. The meeting will be held at 13.00 hours in the school yard in Klokot, and your arrival, therefore, the director and arrival of all employees is mandatory. You are required to inform all employees. “ The letters they keep informing the employees and the like continue. My people, we can have different views on the necessity of going out or not going to those elections. We think it's going out in those elections, that it's coming out of Serbia, because it's upside down. These elections were called by the Kosovo authorities, and I don't know what we and the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia are playing them at that moment and what the Brussels Agreement has to do with it and how we could even agree on what to do and that's a special issue. Guys, don't do this. This is going back to 1947 or 1949. This isn't even the SPS in the blackest days of the 1990s that didn't work this open. At least they called it on the phone, influenced it, walked down the halls and threatened it. No one's ever left a mark like this in writing, my people. You know who leaves a written lead on the crime scene? It was done by someone in 1939 to 1945. They were not ashamed to leave in Central Europe, a country that made people's lives miserable in those six years. So they were trying not to leave a written trail, and you're doing the same thing. Maybe it's a good thing you left a written clue to know about the history of what you're doing. My question is very simple, what is the official reaction of the Government of the Republic that puts temporary organs to what I read here, I'm going to give you this evidence, that's very important? Secondly, we expect urgent answers to certain questions. You have a question Tuesday asked by Slobodan Samardzic. What about 12,000 people who would allegedly have the right to vote in Kosovo live in Serbia's territory? Where do they vote? At what polling stations in Serbia, polling stations? Who also organises the law on Serbia, will vote on ballots in envelopes, or will Veljko Odalovic vote as the authority of the state of Kosovo instead? So that's what they're asking us. Secondly, and finally, what is the state's reaction to Erdogan's statement that Kosovo is Turkey?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24898	National MP Stefan Miladanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24899	Thank you. Dear President, fellow MPs, I use the right to ask a question, more specifically to ask the minister of education, science and technological development, Professor Tomislav Jovanovic. According to data available throughout Serbia, there are a number of school facilities in rural areas that have not functioned, or used their primary purpose, due to the dying of villages and reduced economic growth for years, some even decades. The Republic of Serbia, i.e. the Ministry of Education, has invested large funds in these facilities for decades with the aim of obtaining even the most remote villages, i.e. to provide each child with a constitutionally guaranteed right to school. However, due to the continuous emptying of the village especially in the hill-mounted areas, many school facilities remained empty and because of the many years of not using a large number is quite ruined. However, there are also facilities that are in pretty good condition and can be used with relatively modest investments. Given that these closed school facilities are still a permanent cost to the state, I would like to ask the Minister of Education next, is there any accurate data on how many schools are in the Republic of Serbia? What costs do the ministry or local self-government have for them? Thirdly, does the ministry plan that such school facilities, which do not serve their primary purpose, apply to the use of other interested users and do such ideas even exist? I believe that, with very small financial investments from interested organisations, abandoned rural facilities could benefit from the implementation of different programmes, both for students and young local communities of municipalities and for other individuals, institutions that would maintain some of these facilities, organize or finance different programmes such as scientific research camps, environmental volunteer camps, art workshops and colonies, international youth exchange programmes or different production programmes. This would result in mutual benefit. On the one hand, these facilities would find another useful purpose, and on the other hand, the ministry and local communities would have no significant cost of maintaining these facilities that are otherwise not used. The fact is that at this point, it would not be possible to use a large number of rural facilities, but I believe that a good programme of revitalising these facilities and giving some new function would contribute not only to saving budget funds but also to reviving some villages that do not have school children, but whose residents want to stay and work in the country. By applying to the use of these objects, the vast potential that exists in these objects would certainly be exploited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24900	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24901	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I pray for silence and five minutes of your attention, for I pay attention to those who deserve attention. I address myself in the name of the loaves, the peasants, those whose plows have torn out their palms, and their foreheads are worried. I am speaking to you as a graduate agricultural engineer for livestock farming and on a simple case I will show you the devastating effects of GMO food on Serbian agriculture and our processing industry. A few years ago, the Serbian market flooded a counterfeit of cheese from a neighbouring country sold in markets as a feta named the country. It's a product you don't get from milk. The technological process for obtaining this product uses palm oil, soy milk, emulsifier. The highest percentage of this product is made of water and has very little milk powder. It's about this feta. It is a feta cheese, under the heading ‘cheese’, because it is derived from the product of plant origin of unknown raw materials. Lately, these raw materials have been imported uninterrupted into Serbia, and such a cheese, under the name "cheese", has flooded the green markets in Serbia where uncontrollably sold without any indication, without any indication that it is a product of plant origin. In Serbia, extremely high quality feta cheese is produced. It's made by Serbian milkmen, it's this one over here, it's not a bit different at first sight than forgeries of cheese, but what do I want to tell you? I'm a graduate farming engineer. To produce a feta cheese, this real feta cheese, it takes five and a half to six liters of milk. I pray that my exposure is not taken as a spread of panic, as a degradation of manufacturers and one product and another, but our consumers are mistaken because this cheese is sold to them as cheese, and at the same time, it does not say anywhere that it is a product of plant origin. In Serbia, between 200,000 and 600,000 gallons of milk for the production of feta cheese is processed daily. We have serious, respected producers who have struggled to obtain a tariff number for exporting their cheese to the Russian market. One cow on average during lactation gives 10 liters of milk a day, so if we don't buy 400,000 liters of milk today, 40,000 cows, milk cows, will be sent to slaughter, 40,000 cows to turn into musar cows should be 40 thousand hectares of land processed. It is 40,000 jobs in Serbia right now, which are at risk for GMO food. Forty thousand hectares of land requires 80 liters of fuel per hectare to, I underline, process the land to bring the product to the market. We have the fact that our producers are being led astray. We do not have an adequate law to regulate this, nor do we have the possibility that Serbia's producers know that they mainly buy a feta of vegetable cheese in the markets. What do I want to tell you? That cheese is sold at a price of 180 dinars. I don't get into it because it's produced in small crafts shops, and most often the production and transport of that cheese is done through so-called. gray or even black market, without paying any taxes to the Republic of Serbia. I'm not getting into the quality of these plant raw materials. Maybe it's about GMO raw materials, maybe not. In the neighbouring country, it is unquestionably found to be GMO raw materials, palm oil and, above all, soy milk from GMO soybean. I appeal to all of you, since Professor Stojkovic, along with some other MPs, has made a proposal for a law on GMOs, for you all to sign the law together, to hand it over together as MPs in the assembly procedure, to be discussed with him, that we all together... (President: Time. ) I apologize, I conclude, we do a consumer protection law that will prevent such abuse and I demand and underline, I demand the reception of which the Minister of Agriculture, my colleague Glamočić, with whom I studied together at the Faculty of Agriculture, in the next seven days, in order to bring him together with the manufacturer of feta cheese, to know the huge problem that exists right now because of what I've been talking about. Take care. One is Feta cheese of animal origin, and the other is cheese, under the premise of herb origin. There's no big difference, except in price and damage and destruction right now for our livestock business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24902	I must ask you, not at all, by entering into the justification of your discussion, not to bring food into the session of the National Assembly, any plant, any animal origin. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24903	Thank you, Mr. President. At a time when the Minister of Economy announces the layoff of 20,000 people in companies that are in restructuring, almost dying, say, the FAP's Pribot, at a time when we talk about the Law on Legalisation and Sunflower of the Construction Industry, at a time when everything seems not to be rebalanced by the budget, which will be the first time in history that we have a rebalance of rebalancing, and he is threatening to, at this point, lack or transfer the deficit of 20 billion dinars in relation to the planned, due to the decline of income, things happen that this minister of economy is announcing a set of laws that will improve the climate for investment, announcing a new law on bankruptcy and planning and construction, which will first pass the government, and only then come to public debate, which also seems to me an exception. There have been many times that there has been no public debate, but to go to a public debate after the government, I don't remember it being. In all the time we live, under the threat of bankruptcy, in which VAT is raised for food and basic life supplies, there are still some people who want to work, invest, who have invested, but the existing Law on Planning and Construction is certainly an obstacle. What's going on? And as it is, if read correctly, it allows some people to do something, but the Ministry of Construction and Minister Velja Ilic does not allow those people who want to work to work. In particular, in Belgrade, certainly, and I don't know what it's like in other cities and municipalities, we have a problem with issuing location permits in specific cases, and this is the subject of my question to Mr Ilic, Minister of Construction and Urbanism. If someone bought the country, became the owner, invested several million euros and asked for a local license, it takes place in the following case, in the event of a remark that a court dispute exists. I know at least two concrete cases in Belgrade, where people invested a few million euros in the country a few years ago, pay loans, etc., seek local permits and reject them for the existence of a litigation, i.e. observations in the catastra that there is a dispute. In one case it is very clear that it is the old owners who are entitled to the country, but the country has basically passed several owners and is now legally bought and the new owner is listed in the cadastre. To obtain a location permit, three documents are required: a copy of the plot plan, a copy of a catalogue of underground installations and certainly proof of property rights. When you have proof of property rights, and someone sued you, and entering a court case is evidence to file a lawsuit. How can no one in this country prevent anyone from suing, how in this country trials last unusually long after a few years, ask Minister Ilic – is the entry, or note that there is a cause for not issuing a local permit, because in Belgrade it interprets it, although in law, when read carefully, it could not be concluded? So Minister Ilic should answer whether it is in accordance with the law or not, because when there is a dispute, then the opinion of the second-degree body is sought, and that is the Ministry of Construction. Since it is sought, and the minister is not answered, I ask him – why does he not answer, because he does not know whether it is in accordance with the law or not? How does it explain that Belgrade notes that respect for the court dispute is the reason for not giving up, and in some other municipalities it is not an obstacle. So, after all, the law says.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24904	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24905	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask two questions from the minister of justice and state administration regarding the arrests of refugees and exiled Serbs, on the one hand, and Serbian returnees in Croatia, on the other. By the competent Croatian institutions, we often hear that the Republic of Croatia advocates best relations with the Republic of Serbia, relations of mutual respect, respect, trust relations and, in the end, sincere reconciliation. However, in practice the behaviour of the Republic of Croatia is the opposite. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia continues to lead in one part a policy of intimidation of refugees and exiled Serbs and Serb returnees, creating a sense of uncertainty and preventing expelled Serbs from achieving their fundamental human rights. I'll list four cases that say that in favor. In May 2011, an 83-year-old master of historical science, Mr. Mile Dakic, was arrested as he returned from a scientific gathering from Banja Luka in Raca, was transferred to Sarajevo. Based on the Croatian Interpol warrant, he was transferred to Zagreb. There's been a renewal of the procedure for two years. 28 witnesses were questioned. None of these 28 witnesses charged Mr. Dakic with participating in the 1991 murder of Croatian police officers in Kordun. The day before yesterday, for the third time, the hearing of 28 witnesses through a video link and absolutely no one suspects Mr. Dakic was involved, neither as an perpetrator, nor as an employer. I appeal to the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration to seek an urgent explanation of the Croatian Ministry of Justice, related to the case of Mr Dakic and to ask for Mr Dakic to be released as soon as possible, because what Mr Pusic, a prominent human rights fighter in Croatia, really said, is a disgrace to the Croatian judiciary. We have another case, July 10th, 12 Serbs were arrested in the village of Trpinj, who live there on charges of committing war crimes in Vukovar. Nine of them were held in custody. The custody is set for three months. Now, in October, that detention was extended for another three months. All the facts show that the Croatian side has no evidence that these nine Serbs committed crimes, but simply by force it seeks to construct the indictment, because it is still missing, so the fourth month of detention goes, that they have committed crimes, although that is not true. The third case concerns the arrest of Serbian returnee Marko Carevic, seven days before Croatian President Josipovic's visit to Serbia on October 9th. Marko Carevic returned to Croatia in 2005. So, he lives eight years in Croatia, he is a member of the Croatian People's Party, on two occasions he was the president of the Senja Gornja Utinja local community near Karlovac, actively advocated the return of Serbs from Serbia and Republika Srpska, worked on the restoration of infrastructure, plumbing, electrical installations, roads, and advocated the best relations between Serbs and Croats. Now imagine, for eight years an active public worker in the local community, Marko Carevic was arrested in one spectacular action on October 9th as if it were the biggest criminal from these premises. The arrest caused great uncertainty among his residents, while six Serb elders were killed in the Gornji Senicaku in August 1995, after "Storm", after the "Storm". Unfortunately, no one has been charged or suspected of committing the murders of those six Serb elders, and one Marko Carevic, a man who has been actively working for eight years in his local community, is arrested. Finally, we have the latest case of the arrest of Slobodan Doklic, a former JNA officer, who was arrested on October 18th, the day following a visit by the Croatian president of Serbia, who was accused of committing war crimes, although he was arrested in 1991, was beaten, and is now a heavy RVI. He went to visit his father and mother in Korenica. After returning from that visit with his family, he was arrested at the border with Hungary, a man who has lived for years in Australia, has Serbian citizenship. Is this a contribution to establishing relations between Serbia and Croatia, relations that are best? (President: Time. ) Please, just to ask briefly two questions from the Minister of Justice and State Administration, Mr Selakovic, to ask Croatia to stop manipulating the lists of suspected, accused and convicted Serbs on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to ask for serious talks and to reach an agreement that war crimes trials and other serious crimes are organised towards the place of residence, that is to say, that Croatia delivers all those cases it considers that Serbs have committed crimes, that the trial is in Serbia. Whoever's guilty should be convicted, who's not guilty, should have full freedom of movement. Croatia must stop manipulation, with the arrests of Serbs, with the goal of giving up its return or fighting for its human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24906	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Borislav Pelevic, Jadranka Joksimović, Meko Omerović, Dragan Šutanovic, Igor Bečić, Miroljub Stojčić, Nenad Konstantinović, Ivan Andrić, Ivana Travar Miljevic, Vesna Marjanović and Mladen Grujic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the president of the National Assembly, in addition to the representatives of the motions of Mr Velimir Ilic, Minister of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, has also called for the session to be attended by Aleksandar Damjanovic, assistant minister of construction and urbanism. We'll wait a few minutes for the minister to join the MPs. We continue to work on the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGALIZATION OF THE Objects We continue the debate on the amendment to Article 5 proposed by DS representatives. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24907	This is a replica of Mr Velimir Ilic's presentation, which followed on this amendment at the very end of the debate. In fact, Minister Ilic did not answer my question about the amendment that I have brought along with the MPs from the DS. He used it as a skilled politician for the last 10 minutes of congregation transfer to give a political speech. On the other hand, during yesterday's debate, people appeared to us and today before the session very unhappy with the flat-rate evaluations and, I would say, by jeopardising the legal certainty that Minister Ilic introduced yesterday in the debate, firstly, with a statement that he did not bring down any object. Then he said he wasn't even in charge of destroying the facilities. This means that one legal uncertainty is created that whatever law we pass, that we will be able to continue the illegal construction and that it will not be prevented by the competent authorities. We didn't ask Mr. Ilic to work outside the law. We do not expect him to come to the door of a host and say, "Good afternoon, I am Mr. Ilic, that host offers you a brandy, and you say, "I'm sorry, I wouldn't drink brandy, I'm afraid it'll fit your throat, because I've come to tear down your house." You're not expected to do that, Mr. Ilic. You're expected to apply the law. You are now in charge for a year and a half and before that in previous terms of respect for the Constitution and the law. It is very unfortunate when you are already in the debate about this law to announce that you will already foresee the possibility of illegal construction in the next law. (President: Time. ) I specifically ask you – are you ready to accept an amendment that also enables the legalisation of infrastructure built parallel to illegal facilities?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24908	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Olgica Batic, a national MP, submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Olgica Batic, a national MP, submitted to Article 7 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovana Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Aleksandar Senić, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24909	Thank you. Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the DSS has submitted an amendment to Article 7 where we have suggested that, behind the last words, one solution will be issued to issue this building and useful permit, but that payment of municipal equipment, to say, compensation for the construction land is made before the decision on building and use of the permit is issued. Why are we saying this? We've been doing this a little bit yesterday. Why am I saying that? Because there is danger, among other things, of buildings consisting of several special parts, so more apartments or more housing units, that can be business space and that owners do not want to pay compensation. It's already happened, I'm saying from practice, that the owners of these illegally built buildings, apartment buildings with 20, 30 and more of these apartments simply disappeared when they built it, promised those owners who bought from them apartments that it would all lead to a useful permit, that they would take out a useful permit for the building. But they get lost, they disappear, and those apartments don't have a valid license. That's when local self-government extended those owners. With this solution, if we leave this article 7, without accepting our change, they will be able to get the used permission without paying for municipal equipment, and then they will sell the apartment to one man, another, third, fourth, fifth. Of course, the local self-government is longer than the first owner, and this fifth one already has that facility, that is, with that apartment. On the one hand, we can't take him down. If we can determine the demolition, it can't. Wherever he's in the apartment building, we can't take him down. Also, to take the local self-government of that one unit, what about her? The local self-government can't handle it either. I think that might be a big problem. All this I'm saying is based on what the DSS advocates is a simple way to legalize and specify members of the law, this Law on Legalization, which is certainly not good in general. There are certain restrictions, and many objects won't be legalized, but at least in these cases, let's make some specifics. There will be a really different interpretation, and I really believe that these business facilities, because the apartment buildings are business facilities, must be paid for municipal equipment before the building permit solution is issued. Today, for example, for these apartment buildings, a unique solution on building permit is being issued, and then a single solution on the use of each housing unit, especially when public equipment is being paid, which I think is a good thing, and with this practice we should continue, and not like this, to issue both construction and use permits without paying for municipal equipment, so that we, or people working in local self-government, in the municipal administrations of urban departments really have a big problem with this non-payment of municipal infrastructure. You have to admit, bring water, sewer or, for example, the way and arrange space for an apartment building over 20 objects is certainly a big investment, so I think you think again and that this does nothing. It's simple. It's just... it's... it's just... it's... it's... it's just... it's... it's... So, nothing can disrupt the law itself, but just predicts this Article 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24910	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24911	Thank you. Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed about 20 amendments to this bill, and none has been accepted. When it comes to this amendment to Article 7, we wanted to specify certain things, because we believe that this law is extremely confusing and does not provide answers to certain citizens' questions. So, my colleague Bojana has very well explained why we have proposed this amendment, in order to specify certain things about the conditions and manner and procedure of legalisation of the facility. So we are also in the debate in principle saying that this law is practically a major graduation for this government, and also for you, Mr. Minister, because Serbian citizens expect, above all, to know how much this legalisation, which is deadlines for legalisation, what is the compensation for the regulation of building land, how much local self-government will prescribe a fee for the compensation of construction land. So this law does not answer these questions. The other thing is, we have 1,300,000 objects that are illegal. We have 720,000 requests for the legalization of these facilities. We have that Dulic law that was declared against the constitution. Also, we have the law that we passed in March, and that law is very confusing for Serbian citizens, because it said that we would legalise certain facilities for 100 euros. Mr. Minister, I also wanted to ask you a question coming from the field. It's about the Association of Citizens of Corridor 10 Grubs. So they addressed many institutions, individuals, and state bodies. No one gave them an answer for one simple reason – because neither the state authorities themselves knew how to act. Through this discussion of mine, I'm going to explain why they didn't know how much damage they had done to them. So their problem began in 2010, when the cadastre began to tear up their properties, their plots, without their knowledge, without their approval, and at the request of the Ministry of Finance and with the help of police assistance, they entered their property. The performer entered their property and began to work that course of Corridor 10. So, since the user of expropriation, this time the state, should form a committee to resolve the appeal, they did not form it and did not resolve complaints about these citizens. They sued the basic court in Leskovac. The basic court has made one fair decision in favour of the 60 citizens of Grdelica. However, the Public Enterprise "The Ways of Serbia" appealed to the Higher Court also in Leskovac...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24912	Mr. Pejcic, please keep the agenda, so we don't spread the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24913	I'm sticking to the subject. It's about legalization. The senior judge has returned this to the Court of First Instance for rejuvenation. The company "Serbian Roads" has used one of the voluntary ways to pressure the president of the court and have demanded that he put pressure on Judge Marina Smiljkovic, who made the decision. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to welcome these citizens, since they're really in a lot of trouble. They just know that through...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24914	Mr. Pejcic, indeed, it is my duty to inform you that we need to talk about the amendment you have proposed. The MPs' questions were.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24915	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24916	I know you'd like to finish, but please talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24917	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24918	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24919	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's simplify things and explain what we wanted with this amendment. Imagine there was one investor who built one facility with several apartments. The investor sold, say, most of the apartments to buyers who paid total purchase prices. So they made all their commitments to the investor, the seller. What's going on in the meantime? I would like to point out that the investor was granted a building permit, and he began to subsectively pay compensation for the use of construction land. So a certain part of the procedure was respected. Now that investor simply falls financially, a bankruptcy procedure opens up. What happens then? The purchasers of apartments, who have paid off their apartments, cannot legalise these apartments because they are not fully respected by the procedure provided by law to legalise buildings and to register as such in public books. The bankruptcy proceedings take a long time in Serbia. If you doubt that, Mr. Minister, I would suggest you consult with the current Minister of Business who has and how he has participated in bankruptcy proceedings as a bankruptcy manager. What's more, it's true of the unscrupulous bankruptcy king in Belgrade. So, this is one story that is so current about the problems of apartment buyers in all Serbian cities that eventually become insolvent and cannot finish the documentation needed to legalise the apartments. Believe me, there are a very large number of dissatisfied customers in Belgrade who have really done nothing wrong and have not done anything wrong, and suffer the consequences, and there is no one to protect them. Local self-governments who have been literally benefiting from paying these fees for the use of construction land have not been particularly engaged in taking part in bankruptcys and seeking and property fees representing bankruptcy. With this amendment, we would actually achieve two concrete positive things. First of all, local self-government would have acquired one priority right, one right to settle their claims on the basis of this compensation for the use of building land, and the purchasers of apartments would have a benefit in that they could realise in the book of their clean right in public books. So I really don't see any reason not to do anything that, on the one hand, will fill the budgets of local self-government, which is one of the objectives of the bill. On the other hand, you will really help citizens who have suffered so many times the bad consequences of bad decisions, bad laws, poor work by state institutions and bodies. You have rejected this amendment by saying that you consider it imprecise and that you think it will only introduce additional confusion in the application of this Article of the 7th Law. We think that this whole law actually has this element and this value of additional confusion that will be created in public -- whether or not the law is going to apply, whether objects are going to collapse or not, and what is actually a concrete reason for proposing this law, because we here and from you hear that you're not really sure what you're going to do with the law when it comes into effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24920	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The MPs Olgica Batić, Suzana Grubjesic, together Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenović, and together Aleksandar Senić, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić, submitted to the 8th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 8th Amendment with the correction was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24921	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister, MPs, Article 8. The bill for us and the LDP is one of the most important members of this bill. For the sake of the public, this member speaks of giving a useful permit for those facilities built on the basis of a building permit, i.e. approval for construction until 11 September 2009. Namely, this member foresees a commission being formed by a building permit authority to report whether the facility meets all the necessary conditions and to deliver the report to the body. On the other hand, this member provides that the same commission will also make a finding to be delivered to the construction inspection within 30 days, if the facility does not meet the conditions for obtaining the applicable permit. In this article, we of the LDP see several shortcomings, I can say freely contradictory. The first flaw is who makes up the commission formed by the building permit authority? In what time is this commission due to deliver a report, if it is already defined to deliver the report within 30 days? Are the reports and the findings two different acts? Is the find part of the report? There is also a question of the content of the findings and reports. What is most important to these members is to avoid the two-stage decision-making. By reading this article, we conclude that the commission formed by the authority for issuing a building permit is, in fact, giving orders to a construction inspection to prohibit the use of the facility. How can a commission take on the responsibility and authority of the body that formed it? The body forming this commission should use permission. Is it not logical that the Commission delivers any report, any finding to that authority, that the Authority determines whether the conditions are met, if they are met to give the applicable authorisation, and if the conditions are not met to give a period, if it is possible to correct the deficiencies that exist and only after the expiry of that time limit to refer to a construction inspection which should prevent the use of the facility? If we don't have two degrees in decision-making, then we have the possibility of creating a space for corruption. Also, here's an important question, I mentioned the deadline until when this commission is due to deliver a report, because it's not exactly defined here. Therefore, the LDP has given an amendment that is trying to correct all these shortcomings that we have been talking about. In response to the government we received, it is said that the amendment is not accepted since this issue will be brought closer to the sublaws. Unfortunately, this answer does not match what we have in the bill. Article 19 defines that the Minister responsible for construction works is closer to the conditions on which the facility referred to in Article 3 of this Act is established, etc. It is not predicted that the minister responsible for construction should be closer to prescribing everything we have spoken about, as stated in Article 8. That is why we think it is necessary to adopt our amendment in order to clearly and precisely define the tasks of the commission, deadlines, sublegal acts and what is most important, to introduce the possibility of an appeal which this article does not provide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24922	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Katarina Rakic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk letter. Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24923	Thank you. First of all, I want to thank both the government and the board of directors for accepting all my amendments. In total, I have submitted four amendments to this bill, and I believe that none of them will systematically change anything, but only more precisely determine some of the members. In particular, as regards this amendment, which I have submitted to Article 8 it refers to a more precise determination of the time limit within which this commission is formed. Given that the issue of a building permit implies and the issue of a used permit for the facility, which means that citizens have already submitted a request for this, and the work of this commission will require from the first moment of application of this law. So I suggested that this commission be formed no later than 30 days from the entry into force of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24924	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Suzana Grubjesic submitted an amendment adding a new Article 8a after Article 8. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Olgica Batić, together Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidiđ, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenović and together Aleksandar Senić, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseninović, Gordana Komić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić submitted the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24925	Thank you. The amendment to Article 9 is related to the amendment that we have submitted to Mr. 8th Minister. You're members of the 8th. You are introducing the bill that the authority responsible for issuing the building permit forms a commission that provides findings and reports. You're not giving any opportunity to have a citizen whose facility was built with a building permit, and there's no use in removing shortcomings if there are. What does that mean in practice, Mr. Minister? For example, someone built a building with a building permit. The commission came out and found that the facility did not meet the conditions, for example. because of a bad electrical installation. You'll agree that this citizen, that investor, can change that. We have therefore, by amendment to Article 8 practically provided for the ministry to produce a sublegal act to define, above all, the professional preparation of those members of the Commission. That's what Kenan Hajdarevic was talking about. Then, the deadlines for submitting the report. There can't be a deadline, there can't be a minister of that commission who never submits a report. The investor's right to appeal for a solution to the refusal to issue a valid permit. By amendment to Article 9, we propose that the building inspector do his job only when the competent authority rejects the proposal to issue a valid permit, not based on any findings and opinions from the Commission. The reason why the government refused the LDP amendment does not stand at all, Mr. Minister, and I do invite you today to look at the amendments to Articles 8 and 9 and possibly accept them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24926	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 10th of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batić. Doesn't anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Doesn't anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The National Parliament of Radmila Gerov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24927	This amendment to Article 10 is about the amendment that we have submitted to Article 2, where we are more precisely, at least that's what we believe, compared to the Government, to define what legalization is. In that regard, the amendments that we have tabled to Article 2 had to follow this amendment to Article 10.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24928	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment was tabled by the National MP Olgica Batić. Doesn't anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Olgica Batić. Doesn't anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Doesn't anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Doesn't anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24929	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is all about what it takes to deliver when a request for legalization is submitted. According to the legal proposal, it is necessary to provide evidence of the right to use, property, that is one of the conditions, i.e. lease on building land, that is another, and then you say – i.e. evidence of property rights on the facility, which means either you will have proof of the right to use property or lease or you will have proof of property rights on the facility. In our opinion, it takes cumulatively to provide evidence of all these facts. You must provide proof that you are the owner, the tenant, or the land user. You must provide proof that you are the owner of the facility, and it is not true, as you stated in your explanation of the refusal of this amendment, that you cannot provide proof of the right of ownership because the right of ownership on the facility is obtained by you by obtaining a building permit or use of the property. That's not true. It's a legal nonsension that you wrote here in the government's opinion on this amendment. So property rights are acquired by building an object. That's the basis. Construction. You must provide proof that you were building an object. You will have such situations that citizens will appear to you who have proof that they have the right to use, lease or property on a specific plot and will not provide evidence of the right of ownership, or evidence that they have built on that land. You'll accept that, and maybe someone else built it on someone else's land, did some legal work in a transge-frange, which is usually done in Serbia. You bring confusion to every provision of this law. This law has a diabolical quality. This law will only reverse any kind of economic activity, where real estate property rights are included. I'm calling you again and I'm asking you to withdraw this law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24930	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senić, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić. Doesn't anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Aleksandar Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24931	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the amendment in question provides for a broader legal basis that can be treated in the legalisation process. I would like the minister to answer our question – how those who are from 1968 to 2003, when land traffic was not allowed and when various purchase contracts were concluded that could not result in the recording of the immovable property, how these facilities would be legalised. I recall that very often the reason for the illegal construction of buildings is that the land was not in traffic during that period of 35 years. This law does not allow people who bought land, but in that period they could not register as landowners, who built their buildings, to have a legal basis for legalising these facilities. I ask you, Mr. Minister, to reconsider this amendment and possibly accept it now because this amendment allows us to extend the legal basis for legalising the facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24932	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. Doesn't anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 12th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik, Dragan Andric. Doesn't anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 13th of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Olga Batic. Doesn't anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter by Olgica Batić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24933	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the amendment that I have submitted to this article, which I have proposed to delete as well as all the other members because I believe that the law should be withdrawn from the procedure, and I do not think, unfortunately, that the amendments that I have accepted can be applied to the practice of how it was intended to be done or what was the intention of the promoter, the explanation is very interesting and it is said that the erasure of this article is not accepted – the applicants would remain without the possibility of the project of the executed object being built according to the prescribed content. I find it very interesting that the authorised promoter knows the exact number of amendments that I have submitted and about everything he presented yesterday we were able to see the way he approached. He did not read the reasons for the amendments at all, and that is more than evident, because what I have proposed, this amendment to Article 13 stems from the need for a comprehensive comparative analysis to be done when accessing one of these problems to be addressed, and to see how this matter is regulated, which I have said countless times, in Montenegro, BiH, Republika Srpska and Croatia. In this place, I will mention how well it has been done in the Republic of Croatia, which has become an EU member. The Croatian Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, unlike this proposal on legalisation of objects where it is not even mentioned in the name of which the facilities, recognises the Croatian law that it is illegally built buildings and accordingly requires much more serious evidence and much more concrete facts about both the quality and the degree of construction of buildings. This amendment is attached to the amendment that I submitted to the previous article, which is Article 12. The law in Croatia, in its construction, has been very fundamentally accessible, and it has been a very long time. All relevant participants participated, unlike the fact that there was no professor of law school in our public debate. So when an authorised promoter here insults someone that one's grandmother or a small child can submit such amendments, they should consider that this is not my mind and I don't attribute it to myself, I do some other part of the law, and that's my priority, but these are the reasons that have been given and helped by some of the chiefs of urbanism and all those to whom the minister is in charge, that I've been helped by some of the professors of law school, by the circumstances which are also doctors of legal science. The law on performance, which I have already mentioned, of the Republic of Croatia, which has extremely arranged this matter, and with the illegally built buildings it prescribes instead of a project carried out for the purposes of legalising buildings and subsequently obtaining a building permit, which we have recently said does not exist, a sublegal act, and what I think of these sublegal acts and the general need that when something is not regulated by some draft law, then all of this is left to countless sublaws for which there is no deadline for adoption. The need for documentation is clearly stated in the Croatian law, which can be identified and then taxed on what must be fulfilled in one such respect. I now do not understand why the need to constantly flee from the fact that some countries in our environment have already done extremely well and why, in the absence of ways, opportunities, knowledge, whatever you want, to approach a serious bill that will be acceptable to everything, we simply do not use some finished solutions which, for example, there is a country that is today an EU member? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24934	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Velickovic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter, Ljubica Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24935	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our PUPS parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 13, which is identical with the amendment of my colleague Suzanne, but the amendment of my colleague Suzanne has been accepted, although our amendment is a little more detailed. This has happened to us many times, to accept the amendment of another MP, and ours remains unacceptable, which is a pity to our parliamentary group. We have submitted more amendments to this law this time, not because we feel the law is not good, but because we want to improve the text of the law. I will read to you only the text of the bill: "The project of the executed facility is being built for the purpose of legalising the facility and subsequently obtaining a building permit. The project carried out for legalisation purposes shall contain in particular: 1. A project task signed by the applicant shall be required." We asked that this point be deleted, for the reason it's built objects and we don't think there's any need to submit a project task for the already built facility. We have submitted an amendment to the article. 15 and 16 resulting from Articles 13 and 16 15 and 16 were adopted, and no amendment has been accepted for Article 13. I would ask the Minister to reconsider this amendment and be accepted once again, as it has been carried out by Article 13 of the Treaty. 15th and 16th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24936	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 13 of the amendment, the National MP Susana Spasojevic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. National MP Bojana Bozanic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24937	Thank you. On Article 13, we have submitted an amendment to delete in point 6 of point 2, which says it is necessary to sign a responsible designer in the project of the executed object. In fact, of course it means that every project will be certified and signed by a responsible designer, and I just didn't think it was necessary for any of these things to be put in place at all, and I believe that the minister who was in a position to have many projects, I don't know if he saw any valid, accepted project without being certified and signed by the responsible designer? I don't think there's any need for that kind of thing to be explicitly listed here, because that's what it's all about anyway. Of course we need to be precise, but certainly not in this way. It's a healthy logic. It's certain we can't accept those projects that aren't signed and certified. I really think this is absolutely unnecessary. What we need, and we need to deal with it here, is it clear and explicit whether this law, procedure and legalisation process is supported by the ministry? I ask – do they support and initiate citizens to legalize? In statements that we had the opportunity to read or hear, we could see that it says -- citizens don't have to legalize their objects, but they have to put them in the cadastre. Or also -- Registration costs will not exceed a hundred euros, while legalisation will be much more expensive and mandatory only for facilities intended for sale. You from the ministry are actually calling for objects not to be legalized. I really don't understand it. Instead of inviting citizens to legalize, which this law says, we invite them on the other hand not to. I don't get it. Also, illegal objects cannot be connected to the power grid, to the plumbing, to the sewers. It could only be done temporarily until they're legalized. You are calling for these facilities not to be legalized, not to join the infrastructure, and therefore not to pay those obligations, nor to pay for electricity, or water, or utility. I think that's the problem, and that's where the funds are being reduced to local self-government. That's what we should explicitly indicate, not whether the project will be confirmed. Just say: Have you ever had a project that you accepted and not been certified by an authorised designer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24938	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 13th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Radmila Gerov, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24939	Mr. Minister, the government has rejected this amendment with an explanation that it is a member of 13. The bill is clear enough. That, Mr. Minister, is not so. In Article 13 paragraph 1 of this proposal, you wrote that the project of a executed facility is being developed for the purpose of legalising the facility and subsequently obtaining a building permit. If legalisation under Article 4 is the issue of both construction and use permits, it is legalisation, we believe that this part should be deleted – legalization of the facility, rather than the project needed only for the subsequent acquisition of the building permit. Why would an investor who built with a building permit do a project of a executed facility when obtaining a used permit? If this word is not deleted, legalisation of the facility, then all those who have built with a building permit or building permit and who do not have the permission to use it must work a project of the executed object. That's really nonsense. I don't think you've carefully considered that amendment of ours. We've contacted the workers who are working on issuing construction permits and this time I thank them for helping us write some amendments. People who work on these jobs, in the authorities of local self-government, if this stays this way, will interpret that a project of a executed facility is needed for use, and for this there is really no need for anyone to work with a building permit or a building permit. Why would he need a project of a done object? In that sense, we believe that you should accept this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24940	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 13th of the amendment, MP Susana Grubjesic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the 13th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 13th of the amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Olgica Batic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24941	The amendments we have submitted to members from 14th to 18th also refer to what I just said, Mr Ilic, because all articles from 14th to 18 use the term "legalization", which means that this will also apply to the subsequent issue of construction but also the use of permits. We, by this law, even though you have said as a proposer that legalization is subsequently obtaining a building and use permit, but this also applies to those investors who only want to get a useful permit, and they did not get that until the day of entry into force of this law. What's the logic of all these investors doing a project of a executed facility? There really isn't, unless they gave up the building permit. What did we propose with the amendment? That, instead of the word "legalisation", it is clearly said that this is for the purpose of subsequent obtaining a building permit. What's the problem now? It's really an amendment that has purpose. That's what employees who work in departments will interpret as I tell you. If you've been working with permission and you've submitted a request for use, they'll ask for your project again. Why should we put these people into such costs just because the government didn't want to accept such amendments? Secondly, Mr. Minister, you know very well that professional people work in certain local self-government, and somewhere a little less professional in these areas, so that if these amendments are not accepted, they will be at the expense of those people who have submitted the request, and they only need the necessary permission.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24942	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Olgica Batic submitted to Article 15 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24943	Thank you. Also, I have proposed this amendment to delete Article 15, as I have proposed in all amendments to the erasure of all these members of the law, and I have already said what I think about this bill in the debate in principle. First of all, it should be borne in mind that Article 13 in its position 2 provides for everything to contain the project of a project executed for legalisation purposes, so that I will not read it, but I will refer to Article 15, which says that the project of an executive facility for the legalisation of a family housing facility up to 300 metres of the grossly developed building surface contains, in particular, a project task signed by the applicant, the basis and characteristics of the cut-off of the facility, the technical report, the signature and over the responsibility of the designer and the consent of the applicant for the project of the executed object. It's nothing controversial, but what's controversial is that there's still no explanation of the amendments I've given, because if you'd read it, you'd see that I'm not opposed to all of this. Here in your explanation you state that the amendment is not accepted since it is Article 15. Proposal for a law defined what particularly contains a project of an executive facility for these family housing buildings, which does not exclude the content of the project referred to in Article 13. I didn't ask for this amendment, and I don't know why you're giving such an explanation for not accepting the amendment, because you should have read the argument first along with the amendment and then some things would be clearer to you. To the extent that it has just been noted, since this Article 15 is just connected to Article 13, I have already said about it, and I have stated what it should contain, which is from Article 13, which regulates the content of the project of the executed object, in fact there is only one type of object executed for the legalisation of the facilities and subsequent acquisition of the building permit. Now I really don't understand why such an explanation is given that this amendment is not accepted. I know why it's given. Because no detailed explanation was read along with the amendment, it could not be understood what I wanted to accomplish. Also, when I submitted the amendment, I did not say in the same explanation that these elements mentioned in Article 15 should not exist, but I asked that they be extended and then I noted and also very clearly and decadently explained. Wouldn't it be more cellular if the project of that object contained everything I wrote in the explanation, which I won't say here because I notice that the reasons for the amendment haven't even been read? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24944	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 15th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Susan Spasojevic and together Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Veličković and Ljubica Milosevic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 15th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24945	I've already explained this amendment of ours, but right now I have to ask Mr. Ilic a question. Since here by not accepting the amendments and asking for permission to use this kind of project, I think the goal of this government and the basic law that this government actually wanted to pass is the law on enrollment of property rights. I have to take this opportunity, Mr. Ilich, to ask you a question. You said that a large number of requests, in fact, were submitted by the municipal administrations to the Republic Geodetic Office for the registration of property rights. The municipality administration in Negotin and the city government in Negotin, consisting of the SPS, the URS and the DS, did not do so. Less than half of the items awaiting legalisation were delivered to the real estate cataster. I know that you may now, as an explanation, say that you can't do anything to such a local self-government, which, of course, will need to enforce this law too, so it won't be able to do it either, but I think you can and I think you should punish such local self-government. Is it not possible to abolish such local self-government transfers until they have fulfilled what they need under some law, or should a certain municipal barbaric leadership not apply state laws and have no consequences for it? I know that by enrolling in the right of property this government wants to make funds for the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's what we were talking about yesterday, that's 150m euros. If this government needs money, then let it press such blatant local self-government, regardless of what may be high officials of certain political parties on their foreheads.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24946	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the 15th amendment. The word has a folk letter, Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24947	Thank you. In Article 15, we wanted to specify, again, in a spirit like I used to say, members of this law on legalisation to help urban services in local self-government, because they, as colleagues said, will actually enforce this law, so it is very important to define very precisely what they are looking for and what will be necessary, for example. in the context of the project carried out, we have thus proposed to add for point 2: "the basics of the facility, the basics of all floors and other sections of the facility". So I think it's necessary to define that they have to be within the framework of the project itself and the basics of all floors so that we can quality determine what kind of object it is and how much infrastructure they're going to have to pull, for example. So it's all for urban service. So, some things have to be clearly defined. I don't think we could see very well under this law, some things you've figured out, which wasn't necessary, and now some of which you didn't need to do it. We are here as MPs, representatives of the people, who have communication with the people on the ground, to point out certain failures and to improve this law. That should be clear. What's not clear is why are we passing this law pro-form, if the ministry doesn't support it, and it supports first and foremost the registration of property rights? So it is possible to enter property rights on the corridor of a infrastructure project, such as pipelines, highways, etc., which the minister himself said, that when these people enter the right of property, they will be able to charge compensation if that facility is removed from there. But, for example, on that corridor, they can't legalize that facility, so I really don't understand it, and whether the citizens, who have come to the end of the procedure and are supposed to sign the contract, are now going to have to re-negotiate after five months of legal vacuum in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Legalisation, or the Law on Planning and Construction relating to Legalisation, to deliver all this ex post documentation, that they have much higher costs, or are they going to end it under the previously applicable law? You didn't answer that yesterday, and it's very important that the citizens know, because there are really plenty of them standing there waiting for this law to be passed. Will they have to start the procedure again?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24948	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word about this amendment? (No) You have received the resignation of MP Nedja Jovanovic as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandated-immunity issues for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation of the case referred to in Article 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office had ceased, before the time at which he was elected, to MP Neđa Jovanovic on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of Members of the People, the discharge of the vacancy in the National Assembly will be carried out. Mr. Veselinovic, are you reporting for this amendment? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24949	I think it would be my turn for the minister to answer the question of her colleague what will happen to the demands filed under the old law. The truth in Article 38 of the Transitional and Final Provisions says – the legalisation procedures will begin from the date of entry into force of this law on 11 March 2010, which have not been completed until the date of entry into force of this law, will end under the provisions of this law. That is true in a formal sense, however, it is not clear how it will be realised. If the current documentation on these items is in the cadastres for enrollment of immovableity under the Law on the registration of immovable property of illegally built objects? If the documentation is there, and the owners of these facilities insist that the legalisation be completed, and the state forwarded their request elsewhere even though they did not ask for it. When will this legalization continue? What are the deadlines for this documentation to be returned to the competent legal authorities? Will the priority be the application of the Law on Legalisation or the entry of illegally built objects into the Immobility Catastrophe? Since this legal vacuum that this law does not resolve will be completed, not by some by law, we expect it to be resolved through this law. So, those provisions are gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24950	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24951	I just want to relate to the story my colleague told. First of all, I don't think he was talking about the amendment, that first of all he broke Article 106 because he was talking about something else. Secondly, I think it's misleading for a public who's already confused enough and doesn't know by what law objects are actually legalized. As a lawyer, you should simply know that according to the Law on the Registration of Property on Objects, objects are not legalized, but are legalized under the Law on Planning and Construction which the Constitutional Court has brought down. So I don't know why you're misleading people who don't already know what to do with their demands and how to legalize their facilities. Of course, it will legalize under this law that we will pass these days, not under the law that the Constitutional Court has brought down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24952	Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24953	Dear fellow Minister Ilic led you astray, he spoke of free legalisation through the Law on the Registration of Objects illegally built objects in the Immobility Catastrophe. He has brought confusion among the citizens. By all accounts, you too, with your limited knowledge, are further confused with that. (President: Please, Mr. Veselinović, do not insult him. ) Please, I have not said at any time that the Law on the entry of illegally built objects into the cadastre will be legalized objects but I have asked what will happen to the documentation that is now there even though citizens did not ask for the registration of these objects in the cadastre but legalization of objects when they applied for legalization. What's going to happen to that file? My colleague rightfully asked if they would have to apply again? Under this law, I admit, in the transitional provisions, I said what was going on, that the procedure was continuing, but with which the procedure continues when their documentation was gone, but she was in the catastrus even though they did not ask for it. That's the question that lawyers who work for ignorant parties and parties who have applied for legalisation ask us these days. Where is their documentation now and when will the legalisation process be continued because they want, say, their immovableity to go away, to give or pawn it. Why do you lead the people astray, and no one has asked you anything? We have asked the minister, do not answer in the name of the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24954	Mrs. Rakic was told to talk about the amendment. So she didn't answer your question. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24955	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't want a single story here repeating some delusions. Anyone who wants to be informed can get the right information wherever they want urbanism, and in the ministry, both in the catastro and in all these places. There's no delusion here. The error is made by individuals who do not read what is written. It is not true that urbanism has given documentation to the catastro and that there is no document. That's not true. If you have read the Regulation on how to implement it, and for all of this there are also accompanying documents and accompanying acts, urbanism has provided copies of all requests in the catastrus, and the original has remained in urbanism. So, the new law goes into effect and there's a process that's been under way. There were copies in the cataster, and that's why it went slowly, there were many objects, and urbanism had to copy and deliver cadastro copies, copies of all documents. Please, no more catastre story, legalization, enrollment in the immovableity cadastre. There may be a lapsus to mention, even the people who work in the catastro they call enrollment in the cataster of the immovableity of the catastrian legalization. Some who work there, some lawyers call it that. I begged them not to use it because it creates error. Legalization is one thing, and enrollment in the immovableity cadastre is another. I wouldn't want us to waste time explaining that right now. I'd just like to say one more thing, let's not mix up the building permit and use the license. Many things have been defined and need to be read and studied. The applicable authorisation is obtained from a commission formed by professionals and all applicable permits are obtained in the same way. But there are facilities, significant ones, which require special measures, facilities for public gatherings where certain regulations have to be complied with to obtain the necessary permission. I'm citing an example of a sports hall, where now this guy's facilities that don't have a license have to solve that issue because they're going to be closed. There are tragedies against fire protection, exits to evacuate fast, etc. Large supermarkets, stadiums, facilities of special importance, thermal power plants, hydropower now operating in Serbia, etc. These are special facilities that must be allowed to be used, then bridges, test loads, etc. So these are expert teams formed by the ministry and who have the authority to carry out an examination with certain professional people and give the necessary permission. Any person who makes use of the permit and puts his signature is responsible for the facility for which he has given the used permission. It's a process that takes a lot of time. You can't give a thermal power plant a licensed license like that right now. Here, now it's "Cosotolic." I need you to give us a valid permit tomorrow. For example, the applicable permit for a sulphuric acid factory, the applicable permit for objects that are specific must be operated separately and cannot be given on the basis of a building permit, because the process of performance on the ground is very important and the commission is looking for it. You can have everything projected, but when you get there, you have to have special measures that must be respected and a project implemented, because during the construction of the project, with consultations with the investor, supervisory authorities and performer, some changes have been made in accordance with the designers, etc., that there is never a procedure on large buildings of the projected, executed state identical. We design the highway, we do, but along the way, there are some concessions where the project needs to be changed, for example, we drill the tunnel now, and until we drill into the mountain we don't know what we're going to follow through that well that's being created, and if they report inside the slides, ground water, a series of problems, it has to be solved later, and that's why we need to do a project of state of performance for individual facilities, in order to get a useful permit, if it departs at the request of the supervisory authority who wrote it in the book of the project documentation and if a new documentation project is subsequently done. So, please, listen carefully and thank all of you for your cooperation, but there are a lot of professional people working on this, and these are very complex problems, when we're giving a project of an object whose value, for example, is currently 300 million euros, where there are thousands and thousands, you know what project documentation is for one such object, is full of a truck of project documentation. That's what professional people do, mostly colleges, electrotechnically their share of construction-architectural, institutes, road institutes, all have their part that they do, professionally sign, and, of course, for the use of permission, it must all be agreed, completed and done. I thank you for your cooperation, for your discussion, etc., but don't talk about some things, where you don't know, I know some people that I highly appreciate and respect as MPs, but can't teach literature or English to explain to us how we get a useful permit for people who have been doing it for years and who are verifiable for it and who have certain laws that give us all one gentleman. I, as a minister, have to put my signature on every project at the end of the day, and use my signature and answer for life for everything I've signed. Don't explain to me now what I'm supposed to do to please someone named Peru, Zika or Mike there, to make Mike happy, says – well done, master, you're great, etc. From today on the site of the Law on Planning and Construction, you can track it, read it, fully agreed. He's predicting all this stuff and it's a big responsibility. We put in another thing that's very important. I fully agree with you in many discussions. For many things, supervisory authorities are responsible, there is also the responsibility of people who, until now, have not been responsible for anything, and they are the ones who paralyze in the course of construction, sign, etc. They have to answer to something, too. The supervisory authority can't falsify the paperwork and everyone there is responsible, and he's nothing. He's the legal expert he's given professionally, and his solution can't be killed by anyone but the court, the court's expert. So this is a specific part, and that's why in this law we've singled out these small objects, private objects, from these large ones where the specific conditions for permits are. It is not the same to give permission for a 200-square-square private house, where one factory of 300m euros can do the same. It's a completely different thing, and I totally understand that. As for the need for a commission to determine the state of the facility, I have spoken of it many times in parliament and that is a fact. In order for you to determine the state of play at one facility that needs to be legalized and which is wildly built 30 years ago, at a private house, which is the lowest rank of that facility, cost, to determine the state of play, the right state to have the right documentation, costs one 20, 30,000 euros. So you have to do an examination of the facility completely, and imagine how much one factory or part of the highway would cost. The gentleman recently spoke of the highway a few minutes ago, but it's our accident, someone started making it without permission. How is it possible that he got his license if he didn't solve the property-legal relationship and paid for the peasants coming out and blocking the road? So it's not paid and it can't be done anymore. I don't allow that construction. I hope you'll back me up, which someone once did, and now someone's going on and on and on. Now I'm asking, I'm sorry he's never in an O.R. former finance minister, how did he get credit for that highway if he didn't have a building permit and project documentation? How did he set the price for how much it cost, how he broke up the tender, and how did these papers go, on what basis? That's why it happens to be a moving facility, so it's 100m euros, and in the end it's 400. A 100 million performer is introduced, and in the end, the number is pushed out, which happened, not to repeat these examples. We're all here with one task, to increase the construction, to be all true, to have nothing mounted, pushed, undefined, and don't be angry that some things, and I'm sorry that we turned down some amendments, but they're almost identical, there's MP groups that they gave, and your amendment is completely identical, almost for a shade is different from Mrs. SPS, which is accepted, little and from the PUPS, and now the lawyers weigh and say, this one's a little bit better defined for the shade, because of one word maybe, and they've accepted it. Don't be angry now, I'm saying that you've all been here and you've got five parliamentary groups, which have given a good amendment, which is accepted one, because you can't all have five. Don't be mad about it, but they're all here somewhere. And your amendment was similar, one small nuance, but I'm not a lawyer, so the lawyers said, this one was most precisely defined, and then they accepted it as such. Thank you and I think that your discussion is good, and in the right direction and thank you for one of these creative discussions, because you haven't had a better discussion in a long time than you have today. Everything you said stands. I say, the shades of these amendments, here's hoping for the next law that will define all of this, as one big roof law for all of this, will be all clear and clear, and I therefore invite you, look, on the site is, and we'll talk about it very quickly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24956	Replica, Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24957	Thank you, Minister. I'm a little angry with you for sort of insulting the professors of literature, and I think your discussions sometimes have more epic than legal, so I think you could be very competent, to treat those discussions of yours. I'm going back to the essence, you say, on the basis of a copy of the documentation, the objects will be entered in the immovableity cadastre. (Minister Velimir Ilic, from the place: Confirmed! Well, you didn't say that, you said copies, and now you say certified, photocopies, so. I was just about to say that no document can be entered in the immovableity list if it's not a certified photocopy. I only call, here now, from this place, all those whose original documentation instead of certified photocopies were submitted to the cataster, to report personally to Minister Ilic and his ministry and to complain about the conduct of the authorities in state bodies, or local self-government, so that their legalizations would not be suspended. Please, as Minister and your ministry, correct that irregularity that exists on the ground. If this is an estimate of 10%, 20% or 30% of those who do not comply with the Immobilization Rules, check it out. So far, there has been very, very different practices and people have known that their legalisation is not ongoing and since the law has been declared unconstitutional, but they should know whether on the day this law is passed their legalisation will continue in accordance with Article 38 of the transitional and final provisions... (President: Time, Mr. Veselinovic, is long running out. )......................................................................................................... whether their legalisation will continue and that they have legal certainty.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24958	Thank you. Mrs. Bozanic, you wanted a replica of the same at the minister's fair? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24959	Thank you. Since I see the minister's been a little Googled and informed, that's certainly nice. Yeah, for example. Minister, I have no idea what you've finished, what an engineer you are, or what I'm interested in. You're the minister of a certain area here. I address you, whether you write the law yourself or not, you are here, and we speak to you as messengers, and it really does not matter. You're here today to represent this ministry and write this law. If you're angry, you tell us, so we'll be quiet, we won't talk. If you're going to tell us now, if the government is going to decide who's done what, and based on who's going to what and when to talk, that's all we're missing here. But that seems to be what we're expecting in the next period. I am very serious about all of my discussions, and I am very responsible for what I wanted to say to you, let me ask you, that answer I haven't heard from you – is the government, or is your ministry in favour of legalisation, or is it not in favour? Do you support, initiate and ask citizens – come on, legalize yourself, or do you not? I didn't see it from your press statements, only from this law. The law is paper, and your words are a living word. What I was trying to say to my previous discussion is that if, under the previous law, citizens needed to deliver a technical report on the state of the object with a geodetic video containing a recording of the facility, which was handed over to legalisation, the grossly developed building surface, the floor, etc., photo of the facility, proof of the right property, these are some things that cost a lot less than what it would cost to collect the documentation. I ask the question – will this same documentation apply to these citizens, or will the citizens now have to work on the project of a executed facility, etc., even though they have collected all the documentation, they are standing on the contract and waiting to be legalised? So now they're going to have to pay 10 times as much, because per square meter there's a lot more cost to build a project of a executed object? That's what we need to know. It doesn't take so long for me to know, that's right. I might be doing some other things. That's what people who are employed in urban services need to know, because we're going to be in a situation where tomorrow they're going to interpret it quite differently. So it's clear and precise to tell them that we don't get into a situation so we can't interpret something. I'm a MP, you're a minister. I ask you on behalf of my citizens is that so, or isn't it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24960	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24961	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I would like once again to clarify the difference between the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights over buildings built without a building permit and the Law on Legalisation. It is precisely this confusion, which exists in the public, that the minister has said so many times that the above-mentioned law is called a law on catastran legalisation, that it probably also lays copyright to such a name of the law. Mr. Minister, six months ago, you promoted the law on catastrian legalization, which is not at all called and which does not represent it at all, you said that it would be possible to register objects by 100 euros and promote that law is more important than the law we're talking about today. So it was important -- you type in your facilities, and when the law comes on legalisation, then if you have already entered, no one will be able to tear you down, etc. I just want to read Article 13 paragraph 3 of the Law on Catastrian Legalization... (President: Mr. Senic, I really cannot allow you to read that article now, since we are talking about an amendment to Article 15. The law. It's absolutely about you. It is because the documentation relating to this member of the law has been forwarded. No problem at all. Therefore, the Authority of the Administration responsible for the legalisation of illegally built objects shall, within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this Act, supply to the authority responsible for the registration of the right of ownership the requests for the objects to which this law applies, with the documentation prescribed by this law. Therefore, under Article 13(3), no copies, no certified copies are provided. Your rule is not in accordance with the law passed by the National Assembly. I know that you will find a new justification and that you will say that the rulebook is such that it can be implemented, that copies are passed back to the disaster, etc., but I would like to inform you that at least one third of the local self-government has passed the original request and the original documentation. If you really want to deal with the area that you are in charge of in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I suggest you also examine the municipalities and point out that they did not follow the law that you wrote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24962	Thank you. Next reported is MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24963	Dear Ministers, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament and MPs, in addition to the procedure which is important, and as far as the law is concerned, and when we talk about the documentation and whether a copy of the documents has been forwarded to the State Department or to the original documentation, I think it is important to say that, too, Mr Ilic, you must accompany as the competent minister that these days, or these months, citizens are getting those who have entered the legalisation process and are waiting for the authorities to respond, is it possible to enforce legalisation. In the meantime, we have reached the legal vacuum, and they have never received that answer, these months they are getting, or since the adoption of the Law on the Registration of Objects into the Immobility Catastrophe, they are getting the solutions to carry out the enrolment and payment of the money needed to get the enrolment done. In case they do not do so within 15 days, they will no longer be able to do so and that request will be rejected afterwards. What happens if a citizen wants to make full legalisation in accordance with this bill? How is he certain, or how do we ensure his right to do so, what if he is rejected? Will he then be able to enroll his object under the Law of Registration in the House of immovableity? I think that when we pass laws, especially when we do them, we need to make sure that we don't hurt any real citizens, especially to make sure that we don't take their money. I think that the citizens are quite confused, that the complete chaos has arisen precisely because you brought the Law on the entry of objects into the cadasar of the immobilities of illegal objects the way you brought it, that you gave explanations as you did and above all because the timing was not adequate and should not have been entered into the legal vacuum and that we were late with this proposal today, should at least be at the same time. I think you should keep an eye on it as a competent minister in the future, and I hope something like this doesn't happen anymore when it comes to the proposals coming from this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24964	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. He has the word National MP Olga Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24965	The Honorable Chairman, I absolutely have no problem with that when the author rejects the amendments I have submitted. In the end, the government thought it was supposed to refuse, that's good: it's not even good when you're constructive, so you change something, when you delete, it's definitely wrong. I must say, we have just reached a general consensus in the debate on the previous amendment. In fact, both opposition and positional MPs agreed that such confusion already exists among citizens, that they no longer know what to do or who to turn to. As for the amendments I submitted to this said article, I would really like the minister to tell me, since he mentioned that the argument was written by the lawyers. I'll read that argument. It says - the amendment is not accepted, given that Article 14. The draft law prescribed a specific type of project carried out for legalisation purposes, taking into account the purpose of the facilities, its complexity, etc. Similarly, a number of main projects have been identified in the current Law on Planning and Construction. In this place, Mr. Minister, I have to ask you - why do you even approach and why is it that the new law on planning and construction is being drawn up, if not only in this amendment, but also in some others, you are calling for the current Law on Planning and Construction? Is this current Law on Planning and Construction suddenly good for you, so here you are doing a classic replacement of thesis and responding to the refusal of amendments as you do at that time, since we all know that you are one of the greatest advocates here, as regards the need for a new draft law on planning and construction, and that you were one of the greatest speakers when you commented on all the negative sides of the applicable Law on Planning and Construction? When such arguments are given, as a lawyer to me as a lawyer, since you said that the arguments were written by lawyers, these reasons cannot, nor do I want to understand, because first you have to take one side and see which law you support in the first place, is the applicable law or new law, which you will completely change, is the existing Law on Planning and Construction, or are you only calling upon it when your Ministry answers it. Then why did you even approach to make a new one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24966	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment in the same text, the MPs Susana Spasojevic and together Slobodan Jeremic, Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic submitted. The government, i.e. the proposing representative, and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I am aware that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the 16th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers the amendment, with the correction, in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24967	Our amendment to Article 16, in fact, is the same as the amendment to Article 13. So we believe that point 6 should be deleted, which says: “It is necessary for a project of a executed object to be signed and certified by a responsible designer, ” just for reasons that we need to simplify things and some things that are logical to have in mind. I can agree with the Minister about a lot of things, about a lot of things he talked about, like those things that the government changes laws, but that the clerks stay and they have their own procedure that can't change. Together, local authorities, inspections, the judiciary, the prosecution and the police can only do something together. That the clerk won't change, he won't change the geometry, that the administration won't change and that you can't change the counterworker. Whoever has the strength to do so will certainly have success. So whoever can tell that counter-officer to go home, to bring someone more capable, I think we just did it in Chattino Community to do it and to sort of change the whole procedure. If we're talking about a building permit, that license can be obtained literally in two hours, if all the documentation is delivered, which I think is really good, and if we have a problem, we'll have it in the Law on Planning and Construction, but here you're saying that today he's on the site, and I know for sure that on September 30th when you called the representatives of municipal administrations, so the chiefs of administration and the chiefs of the Department of Urbanism, to discuss this bill, they didn't have a bill in front of them, and they couldn't take him off any website. But, well, at least he's here today, so we'll have a chance to see him. In any case, you have to understand that the Democratic Party of Serbia, I repeat, is only asking for the procedure to be simplified, and what makes sense is simply not to complicate and not to make some simple thing complicated and not to talk about the responsible designer having to sign the project, which is a very normal thing for God.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24968	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the board of directors did not accept the amendment The Word has a National MP, Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24969	Thank you, Chairman. I will agree, Mr. Minister, with you that this country needs professional people, that no one can do projects, that it should be done by builders and architects. I agree with you that those people who exercise supervision should also be professional people and for this exercise of supervision meet their license and that professional people should work in places for the issue of building and use permits. But what's going on, Minister, of course, is not your responsibility, in those local self-governments where local sheriffs and local cabads rule? There's no such thing as expertise for them. So, for example, in Zajecar, I really apologize for having to say this now, but I think you will now wonder, where in power the Serbian Progressive Party and the SPS, the local president of the Assembly and your colleague in the government, Assistant Minister of Transport Sasa Mirkovic, will convene a session at an emergency session during the night, with four hundred pages of material and at such sessions he makes decisions on the abolition of certain institutions, such as the Centre for Culture, Tourism Organizations, and for example. Sports center. You know, Mr. Minister, you were saying that there are certain halls, where we should carefully issue the applicable permits, because that's what citizens' safety needs to be taken care of, so that's the case in Zajecar. When you remove a certain institution, determine the liquidator and fire the workers, while forming some new institutions, who will now apply for a valid permit? As one of the local kabadiahs of the Serbian Progressive Party is allowed and who allows this time of crisis to be so boastful, not only fires people from work, it means it has nothing to do with their salaries, it has nothing to do with anything, they are not interested in property at all. Then they add to the housing company in that city the work of growing flowers, growing plants, growing snails, and then we'll talk about who's going to apply this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24970	Members of the 16th Amendment were submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Sasa Dujovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 17, the amendment was submitted by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24971	As regards the reasons for this amendment which, of course, is not accepted and I have already said, I have absolutely no problem with it, it is said – no amendment is accepted, since this project, in addition to the mandatory content prescribed by law, contains other data, which is conditioned by the type of object that is subject to legalisation. Look, for a wonderful miracle, I can agree with one of these arguments. I just don't understand what other data is, and I don't know what the data is that kind of object is, because I don't know what that syntagma means, that general clause -- other data, when you're taxing just two things, and that's a copy of the catastra of underground installations and a recording of the route of existing water, and then you're finishing a sentence, and Dr. I'd like you to explain to me what it is, always the need to put this together second, to finally explain to me, here I am, as a lawyer, going to remain in my legal ignorance, what does that mean in some bill of law, "and second"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24972	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24973	Thank you. Article 17 speaks of the legalisation of the municipal infrastructure facility, where necessary, and a copy of the underground installation catastra, a recording of the route of existing water, etc. When you have a communal infrastructure and you need to do legalisation, you need to have the heads of these institutions and public enterprises capable of registering, doing and looking for projects under this law as necessary. But in the situation you have in Serbia, for example like in Negotin, where the municipal enterprise has a total annual income less than the debts of the utility company, it certainly does not occur to the director that he is dealing with this. This is the same situation in the city of Zajecaru, where all the activities of the municipal enterprise are added to the housing company. Today, JP workers "Kinglevica" strike. Of course, you won't hear about it on television, because there's total media darkness. They strike because their activity, thanks to the absolutely pointless decisions of the local congregation, has taken over the housing company. In that city now, thanks to local authorities' stupidity, you have two companies doing the same work. There are equipment there, there are utility infrastructure facilities that someone needs to legalize, but will the directors of these companies deal with what they need or will they deal with what they will and how they will do Monday with their workers?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24974	Thank you. The 18th amendment was submitted by the National MP Olga Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24975	Article 18 discusses the legalisation of low-building facilities. Among other things, there are roads. You, Minister, have expressed your astonishment as possible, for example, that the highway starts to be built without a building permit. How is it possible for the Government, then the Assembly to approve loans without any kind of project? You talked about how it was possible that someone said – what is the price of it? That's where I fully agree with you. That's why the LDP never voted in favour of such bills that came to parliament, and they talked about borrowing, and we didn't know why we were in charge, when, as much as for which projects, precisely because there was no project documentation. Except that this is how it happens with JP "Serbian Roads", except that it happens in the republic, so it happens in local self-governments. Many local self-governments build local roads without any paper, no documentation whatsoever. I think you're fully aware of that. Before each election, some roads in all municipalities are paved. In the municipality of Negotin, the road to Milosevic was paved before the 2010 elections. Some roads were paved before this election in Zajecar, and some of them are paved today. Imagine what else is being done there. There, for example. make a decision at the Assembly that says this, and I think, Minister, you'll agree that I'm right, that as many as the citizens are bought, two or three times more will give the municipality, not for any time, or how much money it is. I really do what it's like to raise money in cash. I guess there's something about self-indulgence. I agree with you, this country is also responsible for professional people, but this country also needs changes so that local kabadais are no longer in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24976	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Katarina Rakic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24977	Article 106. I think you had to react to the presentation of your previous colleague. I'll go back to a few previous members. Until the amendment to Article 14, they were bothered by the law, so they said to withdraw from the procedure. Out of Article 14, the directors of local enterprises were objectors, and here, in Article 18, the entire government is disturbed. I'm just asking you to listen more carefully to what the lady is talking about and get back on the subject, and these are amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24978	I really didn't understand it was so intrinsic. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day? (Katarina Rakić, from the place: No. Thank you. The amendment proposed to add a new member of 18a after article 18a was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Comic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimovic and Branka Karavidic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24979	Thank you. This is one in a series of amendments that the government and the board have accepted. At all, Minister, we are not angry that some others were not accepted because they were very similar to some of the amendments submitted by the other parliamentary groups. This amendment is specific because it introduces a new member of the law. So, in addition to Article 18, we will have a member of 18a, because it was necessary to regulate that units of local self-government can, on behalf of and for the account of interested citizens who want their facilities legalised, that local self-government conduct legalisation procedures, of course, with the authority of these citizens. The adoption of this amendment is, I say, the acceptance of good practice, because the previous law also meant that local self-government could, with the authority of citizens, carry out the legalisation process, i.e. obtaining geodetic footage, project documentation on behalf of citizens, and thus has a drastically accelerated process and legalisation process. I just want to commend the people who made your writing team this law, because they realized that it is necessary to continue with good practice and that local self-government, of course, entrepreneurship local self-government and can and should speed up the process and the legalization process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24980	Thank you. Member of the 19th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24981	Thank you. I'll be as short as I can. It is stated that the amendment is not accepted because, in fact, by eradicating that member, a consistent application of the law would be disabled. We've seen that before. So, the copy-paisy method worked until the end, and the sublegal acts in Article 19. The draft law will be adopted as soon as possible, given that its preparation is in the final phase. This leaves room for a bunch of sublegal acts. It's inability and ignorance, when you don't know anything about the bill and then you leave everything to some sublegal act that no one ever knows when it's going to be passed. Moreover, in countries that are more advanced than us, in countries that are more developed than us, in countries that are much better regulated by this matter than we are in the EU member states, when accessing the bill, the draft of sublegal acts is approached at the same time, and it is not waiting for the law to be passed, and after three years, to start making sublegal acts. So it's something that's done in comparison and it's something that lawyers do and it's what Mr. Ilic likes to say, excellent lawyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24982	Thank you. Members of the 19th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24983	Thank you. Article 19 provides for the minister responsible for construction tasks to adopt a sublegal act. We don't have any problem with that. We only have a problem with the fact that there's no deadline for the adoption of one of these sublaws. The LDP amendment stipulates that the minister is obliged to adopt such a sublaw within 30 days. We think it's enough time for such an act to be brought in. In light of the government's argument that this amendment has been rejected, it states that the amendment is not accepted since the draft sublaw is in the final phase of the drafting, but that it cannot be finalised until the draft law is adopted by the National Assembly, and immediately after the entry into force of the law, sublegal acts will be published. You know how, I don't see what's wrong with us giving the amendment to have that act brought in within 30 days? This way, Minister, without a deadline, I need my MPs to believe by the word of the Government that you will do so immediately upon the entry into force of this law. If it were really your intention to do it right now, I don't see what would be controversial if it were to say that you would do it within 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24984	Thank you. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidić, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mechandzic and Joksimović. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24985	Thank you. In Article 19, we proposed that this sublegal act be adopted within a certain time limit and that deadline was put into effect no later than seven days after the date of entry into force of the law. Why? Because after four months of waiting for this law to come to the agenda of this assembly, and now, after five months, we have no law that we haven't finished it. I felt that the ministry had already prepared all the documentation, that there were also these sublegal acts and that it was just normal, that they had written it well for these four months and they knew exactly how these procedures would go, so it was normal to suggest that within seven days of the date of entry into force of this law this sublegal act would be disclosed and delivered to local self-government, urbanism departments. On the committee of directors, the minister said, of course, as I expected, that they already had it all ready, that it would be the first day after the entry into force of this law, that this sublegal act would be published, which is excellent, but he accepted an amendment that says it would be within 30 days, which is also very good, but if it will be the day after, I don't know why you didn't accept this amendment for seven days? Because it was filed by the DSS parliamentary group, where is one professor of literature here, or is that some other reason? In any case, I think it's more appropriate that it be within seven days and I think we're really helping this law, which, as you said, is necessarily evil, gets better and we're doing it at full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24986	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24987	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to support this amendment because it is simply unacceptable for the ministry, which it has known since 6 December of last year, that certain provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction have been put out of force, i.e. that it will be put out of force on 6 June this year, but has not already prepared a sublaw. If it is a preparation, why does it take 30 days to pass this sublaw? Why has no amendment been accepted to specify that the period of seven days for the submission of this sublaw is? I'm afraid this is another proof that this law does not plan to legalize, but it is the so-called. cadastral legalisation of what is the tendency of the ministry's work and that this law will not even come full application, but will be apostrophe of the possibility of enrolling property rights over buildings built without a building permit in a cadastre, without making a project documentation, because it, my God, is expensive. I also return to a previous amendment that has not been adopted and will make it difficult to register, i.e. legalisation of buildings built on land from 1968 to 2003. According to some estimates, there is a word of about 150,000 objects. It refers mainly to those people who escaped, exiled from the territory of the former SFRY. If you wanted to think about them and about them, Mr. Minister, you should have adopted an amendment that provided that they too could legalise their own building that was built on the land they had obtained at the time when it was legally impossible to transport land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24988	National MP Jelena Travar-Miljević submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 20 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 20th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24989	Thank you. Under this article, the Law on Legalisation is bound by the Law on Specific Conditions for the registration of property over illegally built buildings. As evidence of resolved property-legal relations, evidence of the registered property right over these facilities is just being provided, which I really don't think is right at the very least. We cannot allow, for example, Article 4. The law on special conditions for the entry of property, where several evidences that are very discriminatory, we talked about earlier, someone can enter property rights on the facility, and then later on, to obtain property on the ground where he has adopted the country completely unjustly if he has built on someone else's land. We now accept this one illegal way, I must say, the abductions of a foreign country as evidence of resolved property-legislative relations in the legalization process. I really think this is a mix-up of grandmothers and frogs and that we're bringing together two laws that absolutely can't stand. How can I imagine someone who built an illegal property on other people's land enrolling the property right over that facility and he can legalize it because it's evidence in property-legal relations, but he can't legalize a peasant there, for example, from Zlatibor who built a maybe boiler room or something, a few squares anymore, and that's not defined by a plan document, so he's not allowed? So he's not going to be able to legalize it on the basis of Article 3 of this bill. But they can legalize those who built on other people's land illegally. I think this is really extraordinary and it's precedent. And even if we accept that, I have to tell you, I don't know if you've counted a little bit, but when you read the Law on Unlawful Registration, or the special conditions for enrolment of property above the facilities, this citizen who's an unconscious investor who's been building himself illegally, he's got two years to solve an property-legal relationship. If he does not resolve these property-legal relations, he pays at a market price to the one from whom he kidnapped the country, and it can take two and a half to three years, and we have here in the bill we have a deadline of one year, or six months, as the amendment was adopted, to deliver the evidence and to supplement the documentation. Therefore, I believe that this cannot stand and that this position 2 in Article 20 absolutely must be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24990	The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24991	I'm going to rely on what my colleague Bojana was saying. We talked and conducted a fruitful debate when it came to the Law on the registration of special property rights on buildings that were built without building permits which was defined in Article 4 that the owner of the facility could enter the right of property if he obtained two out of five solutions, of the five conditions provided for in Article 4. One tax solution about the facility, therefore, paid taxes, the other can be bills for communals, water, garbage, heating, electricity or gas bills, confirmation of inspections when it comes to the facility and notice of the possibility of legalisation. So two of these five conditions need to be attached to the owner of the facility in order to enroll the right of property. You have thousands of cases in Serbia where people are connected to water, take out garbage and get bills. Others are bills for electricity, where they also get bills for electricity. With these two bills, for electricity and water, you enter the right of property over your facility, which is the legal basis for legalizing the facility even though it is built on other people's land. Let's say, here's a hypothetical situation. I'm next door to Minister Ilic. I built my house two-thirds on his land. I have bills for electricity and water, I have entered property rights, and in this way I have proof that I have solved legal property relations, and I have submitted proof that I am legalizing my facility, even though it was built on your land. Is that logical? I don't think so. I guess it takes some previous actions to finish, doesn't it? It is impossible to resolve property-legal relations if the facility is built on a foreign land. That's the first one. Secondly, and if you gave him the opportunity to buy out the land he was built on, I guess he should first solve the whole situation that he paid for, that he agreed on who owns it, etc., that he entered the land books, and only then went into legalization. I think by accepting a rule of law, we can create a general mess. You know how many people were building on other people's land, on public land? If he still had bills for electricity and water, he wrote down property rights and solved land problems under his facility, or for regular use of the facility. I'm afraid this solution doesn't cause much more consequences than we have today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24992	People's MP Olga Batic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24993	I have reported for the reason that I will support and vote in Election Day for such an amendment of MPs who have already explained everything well before me and of course I will also confirm that the legal consequences in the event of non-admission of such an amendment will be extremely devastating, and all for one simple reason. In fact, nowhere in the world, absolutely, in any single country on the globe, regulations relating to the building of buildings under any conditions and in any way cannot solve real issues, whether on buildings, or on the land on which that building is located, and it seems to me that this kind of member is doing something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24994	Thank you. The 20th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24995	With all the objections we have just had to hear from previous MPs, we in the LDP believe that evidence of resolved property-legal relations cannot be what is in the bill, and that is a certified copy of the decision on the registration of property rights. We have proposed, by amendment, that evidence of resolved property-legal relations be certified a copy of the judicial solution of the competent authority on the registration of property rights. What did we do this for? It's precisely because there's a possibility of a complaint to a solution to the entry of property rights. As long as it doesn't become legal, we believe that something like this can't be proof of solved property-legal relations. You, Minister, have said so literally in the context of the Government's argument, because as a reason why you rejected this amendment, you say that the amendment is not accepted for the reasons that the provisions of the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit are prescribed that a decision on the admission of property to an unlawfully built facility can be made to the Ministry of Civil Engineering's Office, which implies that it is delivered within the meaning of Article 20(2). Proposal for a bill of law is a valid solution to the registration of property rights. You know what, I really don't think anything can be understood, and I don't see where the problem is to accept an amendment that clearly defines that the solution has to be a forceful one? Why should something be understood, when you yourself as a Government say that a solution to the entry of the right of property is a possible complaint, and in the bill of law, you seek only that solution without that solution being justified. We believe that we have contributed our amendment to a better text of the law, and the fact that the government did not accept it leaves the possibility of abuse, that someone with a solution that is not rightfully further acts in cases of legalisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24996	Thank you. The National MPs Aleksandar Senic, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Gordana Komic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić together submitted the 20th amendment. The proposing representative and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24997	The refusal of this amendment is another proof of the favouration of the Law on Katastrian Legalisation in relation to the Law on Legalisation of Objects. We are coming into a situation that under the Law on Special Conditions of Charter of Property of Objects made without a building permit, we will be able to enter objects in the cadastre, and then by Law on Legalization of Objects, we do not legalize the same objects. I repeat, as well as in the debate on the principle of bad Article 3 paragraph 2 of point 5, where a particularly specific distance is required from the adjacent facilities, where it will not be possible that more than 70% of the existing objects are legalized, where we have invested the amendment but it is not accepted. Afterwards, it is said that it is possible for a neighbor to agree to sign the object anyway, but we simply come to a collapsing that certain objects will be entered under the Law on Catastrian Legalisation, and it will not be possible to legally legalise these objects under this law that we are discussing today. Thank you. President: thank you. On Article 20 of the amendment, National MP Susana Spasojevic submitted. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic jointly submitted the 21st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24998	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not the point of the amendments being adopted. The point is to fix the existing bill. Obviously, there is no will to fix this bill and for this reason we fully understand why you refused among other things and this amendment of the LDP MPs. It's amazing how you've made only one confusion in this article's view. So in Section 3, you've produced two misunderstandings. First, it's not clear at all who's committed within a certain time limit to act, whether the authority or the applicant requires, and under the 2nd, really, the deadline you've marked here is pointless. It's a deadline that represents a big problem if it really stays in the text of the law. Here's what this point three says. — if, on request, not all evidence prescribed by this law is submitted, the competent authority shall request that the documentation be completed within a period not exceeding one year from the date of entry into force of this law. So who's obliged to do it within the time limit? That's one question. Secondly, what does it mean within a year of the date of entry into force of this law? It's simply impossible to apply in practice. We LDP MPs have proposed to specify a period of one year to which we assume that it was an intensities, to oblige the applicant to make his documentation edit and supplement. Isn't that much simpler and much more rational? Mr. Minister, you were really here giving some answers to the MPs when they called for some irrational solutions from the bill. Among other things, you said there were some investments and there was some highway, some part of the highway for which no construction permit was requested, or a building permit was given. You led the former finance minister to say that he was actually the author of that investment. Now I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, you've been sitting with that minister in the same government for a year, why didn't you ask the finance minister how he actually thinks he's making that investment about building some part of the highway? So, is there coordination in the government or isn't there? That's the basic question. As far as this law is concerned, as this debate grows more and more distant, it becomes increasingly clear that simply this law will never come to life. Therefore, the question of the seriousness of the legislator is raised, and unfortunately, the consequences of this law will be suffered by the citizens, and this is not the first time, starting with that of your law, let's say, about the enrollment of illegal construction facilities in the catastran. It's also one legal nonses, but obviously you're staying in continuum.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u24999	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25000	I thank the chairman. I will agree with what my colleague, Judita Popovic, has already explained on the occasion of the amendment. I'm quite certain that this article is the most realistic need to be deleted. For what reason? Just because counterpart Popovic explained this position 3. is something that is rather epic, almost controversial, which will cause such problems in practice that I do not think the proposer is even aware of it, because apparently, I will note, if this same article is submitted to the amendment by LDP MPs, that if all evidence is not submitted by the scope of the law, the competent authority is obliged to request that the documentation be completed within a period which cannot be longer than one year from the date of entry into force of this law. Does this mean that since you gave such a provision to the law that the so-called procedure would take place? legalization, I will always call it that because another term is used in EU countries, from a proposal like this ends from 14 months from the date of adoption of the law? It's something that's indirectly hidden behind this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25001	The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoltan Peck, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga and Arpad Fremond. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP named Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25002	Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have submitted an amendment to Article 21 because we thought it wasn't precisely determined who and what it should be doing, especially regarding an organ seeking to supplement the documentation. We have submitted an amendment after the competent authority has examined the documentation and found that it is not complete to give written notice to the citizen, who submitted his documents, that they are not complete within five days. It may not be a day, but since I was in practice the president of the municipality and I know how the municipal administration and local self-government on the ground works, these five days means it's going to be 30 days. What has been accepted for 30 days it will be unfortunately a few months, as it has been in practice so far, and what we have said to urbanists, those who need to give a certain document within 15 days more than a month or a few months. That's why we've accurately determined that at the time of the computer, at the present time where a single written notice is being typed, it's going to take a minute, two minutes, and make it 10 minutes for a local self-government worker, in five days, he can automatically write a written notice, and that in the mail to get the citizen to have time to complete his documentation. I think with this which hasn't been accepted, our amendment will delay the time of the notice itself, because it's been accepted within 30 days to give notice, and we think unfortunately this won't be a month but a few months and then the whole process will backfire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25003	The MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25004	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this member is the best example of how vague this bill is and we see from previous discussions that he is causing considerable controversy. It is very easy to see that Article 21 and Article 22 as they are written in the text of the law are in collegiate. It is said in Article 21 that the competent legalisation authority will ask the applicant to supplement its documentation within a period which cannot be longer than one year from the date of entry into force of this law. One final logical question is raised – what will happen in the situation where the applicant receives notice that the documentation must be completed within 15 days before the deadline expires? To be more precise, or plastic, to explain. If we adopt this law on 31 October, it shall enter into force on 1 November, as it takes effect on the first day of adoption. We leave the deadline until 1 November 2014 for the person requested by the applicant, and his documentation is not complete, to supplement it. We know in what situation our departments of urbanism are in, and a certain situation will be that it will react late and that perhaps on 15 October 2014 the person requested by the applicant will inform the applicant that it needs to complete its documentation. The applicant will be unable to submit all documentation and the solution will reject his request beyond his error. What I said was that the members of the 21st and 22nd college, in Article 22, were to be said – if within six months of the date of receipt, the notice provided by Article 21 of this Act, the applicant did not provide the necessary documentation, the competent authority would reject the solution. I'm interested, as a graduate lawyer with a legal exam, is this six-month period also valid for the applicant who received the notice 15 days before the deadline? Because if so, then Article 21 must change, and if not, then Article 22 must change. I simply point out the need for this member to change, that is, to accept either the amendment or in some other way to remove this misunderstanding that will really cause quite a lot of problems in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25005	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25006	Thank you. I'm going to refer to my colleague, Milic, so I'm going to have to say that there's a conflict of cohesion here, not only when it comes to two members, Articles 21 and 22, because actually, well, I've submitted these amendments, of course, they're not accepted, but it's said that the proposed legal solution is actually prescribed a special administrative procedure. This is actually a lex specialis, so he within his law, except that he regulates the matter of legalization of the facility, he also prescribes a special administrative procedure. Just because he's not really a Lex specialist and he's not a special procedure, that doesn't matter. We have this special administrative procedure and we also have in the General Administrative Procedure Act, but who cares. Maybe as lawyers, the rest of us don't believe that we're interested, because then these provisions would never be found in a bill like this. Minister Ilic, there is a law on general administrative procedure in force in the country. In the explanation that you're giving, you're introducing some kind of special administrative procedure for legalizing objects, even indicating the members you're doing it to, and I think it's a legal nonsens. Erase this and don't embarrass yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25007	Thank you. The 21st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Komic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic and Joksimovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25008	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The adoption of this amendment is likely to respond to the concerns of all previous speakers, since the adoption of this amendment has been adopted that the deadline for notifying applicants is required 30 days, written by way of a written request, from the date of submission, and that the competent authority is obliged to notify, again within 30 days, the applicant is required, in the event that the subject-matter is required. But the acceptance of this amendment to the DS and the next amendment that has been amended by Article 22 of this Law does not solve all problems. Please, Mr. Minister, to get involved, not because of me, I don't have an illegal facility and I'm generally not personally interested in your answer, but I want to ask you on behalf of many citizens who simply don't understand – when the compensation for the construction land is paid? The remaining remains undefined because, with the requirement defined in Article 12, it is also intended to hand over evidence of the regulation of the relationship with regard to the payment of the compensation for the construction land at the time of application, and Article 21(2) provides that proof of the arrangement of relations with the body, i.e. the organisation governing the building land, is to be provided when the owner of the illegally built facility is informed by the competent authority of the possibility of legalisation. I ask you again - when to pay compensation for the construction land, before applying, as provided for in Article 21(1) and as regards Article 12 of this Act, or only when a notice of the possibility of legalisation is received, in accordance with Article 21(2)? Because one member is contrary to another member. So it's not clear to the citizens when they're going to need to pay compensation for the construction land. There is also a shortage, although you have adopted the DS amendment and prescribed a 30-day period in which the competent authority must notify the applicant of a legalisation request or to request an extension of the case, no sanctions or criminal provision for non-compliance are provided. So my second question is – what happens in case of silence of the administration and if the administration does not respect a 30-day deadline to give an answer to the possibility of legalisation or a request for addition of the case? I ask you for citizens to answer the question – when legalization is paid, i.e. compensation for the construction land, and what will be the ministry's measures if there is silence of the administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25009	Thank you. Members of the 21st Amendment were submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 21 of the amendment. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Susana Grubjesic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 21a be added after article 21. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Olgica Batic, submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nejo Jovanovic submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25010	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. It is an incredible ease with which you have accepted that the bad solution in article 21 is confirmed by adopting an amendment that has brought this solution in line with Article 22 with the solution set out in Article 21. So, instead of improving that article 21 by adopting the amendments, by harmonising it with Article 22, you'll end that better solution from Article 22 and make one mistake again. It's as if you're losing sight of the consequences of these legal solutions per citizen, if you really decide to implement them. This is indeed a big question – why did you decide on this very form that was presented to the MPs in the Assembly? In Article 22, we have tried in some way to give you space for a less draconian solution and we have left the possibility of that citizen who submitted the request, and his documentation is not complete and complete, so that he can withdraw his request so that he does not come into a situation to tear down his facility because some document is missing from that document provided by law. So we've left the possibility that whoever submitted the request might have that request. You have not accepted the amendment and remain in that firm position that there is no other solution than the collapse, if the request is rejected because it was not complete. I think it's very strict, considering how you allow yourself a lot of space for various gaps and a lot of what you see through your fingers, and you're going to tear down a citizen's facility if his paperwork isn't complete. It would be good for you to come out here clearly and say if you were serious yesterday when you were talking about the object not to collapse if the conditions provided for by this law were to be broken, or if at some point of good mood you would have presented it to the public. It's only for that reason to finally clarify what is wanted by this law. Is this law pro-forma given in the congregation procedure or does it really want to draw a line around wild construction? I think it's a very serious question, and it would be good to have a serious answer in that sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25011	Thank you. The authorised representative has 15 seconds left. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Branko Karavidic, Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Gordana Komic, Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senic, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic and Joksimovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25012	Another in a series of DS amendments that have been accepted. If you haven't heard from me before, I'd like to ask you a question. Where compensation is paid for the planning of the building land, before the submission of the request or after the delivery of the information, i.e. notices from the competent authority on the possibility of legalisation? You can laugh, but you don't have an answer. Article 21(1) provides that the legalisation request shall provide evidence of the arrangement of relations with the body in charge of the building land. Article 21(2) provides that this evidence is only given after receiving notice of the possibility of legalisation. So, once again, because of the citizens, I ask you -- when will they have to pay compensation for the construction land, is at the moment of legalisation, which is not logical because they don't even know if they can be legalized, and as you have prescribed in Article 3 paragraph 2 of point 5), it will hardly be possible for anyone to be legalized, or only when they get a notice of the possibility of legalisation and when they know that they will be able to enter their facilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25013	Thank you. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapcevic, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 23rd amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 23rd amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25014	Thank you. The government has rejected this LDP amendment with a reason that the proposed provision of Article 23 is clearer and more precise, but that, Minister, is indeed not the case. Article 23 of the proposed law is a signed member of 195 of the 2009 Law on the Construction of Objects. The promoter didn't even bother to arrange that member at least a little bit. This Article shall apply from the date of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. If we have found that Article 4 of the Law involves both the legalization and the use of permission and the approval for construction, then it is completely unclear when these facilities will be destroyed. Will it collapse if a man has a license, but he's got a use for it? This is contrary to Article 9 of the envisaged law. Thus, the proposer can only use the term in this article: ‘request for the subsequent issue of a building permit and a solution for refusal of a request for the subsequent issue of a building permit’. It's completely pointless, and it also applies to the use of permission. For the sake of clarity, the legislator had to specifically define a decision on a request for a later issue of a building permit, and in particular you had to define how you would decide to apply for the permit. At that time, this law would be clear, and this will create great misunderstandings in application, and I think it will be a bad practice, because it is clear that if the competent inspection does not act under this law, it means that they will be responsible for it, and in this way many buildings in Serbia will be torn down.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25015	Thank you. Mr. Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25016	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have read this amendment and, of course, I cannot support it. Especially problematic are these subsequent building permits. The same promoter of these amendments spoke of local kabadiahs in some previous amendment. Well, speaking of local kabadiahs, I have to ask the minister what about these subsequent building permits that were issued for buildings whose construction was started illegally, but they are covered by that system – it doesn't matter who is building it, but who is being installed? What about buildings of 50,000 square meters that receive subsequent building permits, which are business residential and are built in the center of Indjia, without paid utility, without building permits, with construction inspection records, one dozen, where the extensive works begin without the investor having any permission? Then the local administration was installed, so that subsequent permit mentioned here in this amendment was suddenly found. Look at the wonders. No one's ever answered for this. Since the investor didn't have enough space, do you know what they did? They usurped the neighbor's plot. They say, "A man stood in his midst, and you know what they did?" They buried him alive to the dog with a bulldozer. Then, when they dug him up, he went to court to seek a temporary measure. Then the President of the Court, an integral part of the local Kabadiah group, because the man had a small battery for the engine and not to steal it, carried it with him, declared it a bomb and sent it to Sremska Mitrovica for an emergency procedure and immediately decided six months, that this one could continue construction. No one has stopped this building. The opening of this centre, through two or three Goths, was opened by the president of the province government and the president of the Indji municipality, who is now a secretary. The facility received a construction permit fee, but before obtaining the use of the permit, the municipalities bought a space at this facility for fivem euros, without the facility having had a valid permit, at 2,300 euros square. Then the president of the municipality bought 1,300 euros square euros in Vienna, and it turns out that in India, a building that was subsequently granted a building permit, the municipality pays space twice as expensive as the president of the municipality in Vienna. What about those permits? Maybe it's a little funny. Just to remind you that in Montenegro, no matter what we think of this country as unsettled, ours was even more unsettled, the brother of former SRJ president was responsible for building in Zavala, and he had to be known as a official to be built and condemned, as far as I can see, for five years. I ask you, who will answer for these ex post building permits? Objects were built illegally, construction inspections were there, the neighbour was buried alive, after serving one six months, the facility was opened, bought for fivem euros of double-price space, even bigger than Belgrade's. And look at the wonders, at the top of this part of the living room, the penthouse has the president of a 250 square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-square-s. So I ask you, since they mention those ex post building permits here -- who's going to answer once, since everything that's built there is the province in charge? Of course, since they built it, no complaints, no neighbors, no illegal construction, nothing can go through, all of it is rejected. Post construction permits and how they can be obtained, regardless of what was illegal, this was obtained during the construction. But, behold, the president of the municipality suddenly found himself in a 250 square-square penthouse, and his neighbor is the director of the Construction Directorate. It's almost an amazing thing. That's why my question is justified. It doesn't matter how much and who built it, but in what way and how much the Kabadai administration has installed for these subsequent building permits, since in this municipality the peasants are responsible for the construction of boilers, for digging the septic pit, for lifting the fence, for garages, where they tend to remove the machinery, they are written criminal reports, etc., and for buildings of 50,000 square meters no one answers. Since there has been a change of government, the people rightly expect us to sanction this in a proper manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25017	The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 24 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25018	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was under the impression during today's debate that we no longer see a tree from the woods. Here, it seems to me that it no longer matters to anyone to clarify some of the facts that are of paramount importance to the citizens of this country, which are facts relating to obtaining a building permit and using permission. The meaning of those permits is forgotten. Why are these permits requested, why are these permits needed when building and downloading a regular use facility? That is why the whole process of passing this law is more like that people’s “she saw a frog soaring, and she took up her leg. ” So, you can see how it works in the world of legalization, so let's get some law passed, so it'll kind of exist, so maybe we'll apply it, and maybe we won't. That's exactly how this amendment of LDP MPs to this Article 24 tries in some way to change the government's position under this law, a little bit to denigrate it. But obviously, we failed and apparently the law in this form that is already in place and to enter the people and, in fact, produce all the worst consequences we've talked about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25019	Dear Peoples MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the High Economic and Trade School graduates from Kosovo and Metohija who are currently following part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. Please welcome the audience. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25020	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened very carefully to your statements and any criticism of some members of the law, but as you have seen, you are criticizing, and in the end, it will be arranged by some amendment. People in charge looked at it, weighd and accepted what was most acceptable and best for the law to be better, more successful. So some of the criticisms that were presented did not stand, because it later improved. Of course, someone is angry that one party, which is another. We were party-biased in this sense, and we accepted amendments that were most appropriate to fix something and bring order. There's been a lot of questions here, when it's okay, what's up, what's up. You know everything and it's prescribed when it applies, but in order to legalize yourself, you have to bring in that you signed a contract with the local government, that you regulated it and arranged it. However, the ministry does not run and has no jurisdiction, and this has been asked to sign for certain environments, but is left to local administrations to regulate them themselves. That's what cities and municipalities were looking for. The Constitutional Court said it was their jurisdiction. So we can't legally prescribe it to be the same in Belgrade, in Dedinj and in Leban or Surdulica, or Kursumlia. So it's not the same. The local administration has the freedom to prescribe it, determine, that conditions, can be concluded, can be financed, can accept some of the works performed, and may refuse, depending on its possibilities, its budget. If she works badly in the first election, the voters will punish her. If he works well, he won't be punished. We also heard the MP who asked a series of questions about some facilities. I specifically opposed the transfer of the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to anyone. The Serbian government is the government of the Republic of Serbia. The minister can't pass over to anyone and that what's been happening in India right now is happening. To make the municipal government a first-degree organ, the province's second-degree and to end it all there. What is the government for? What's the minister for? What is the Republic's inspection for? There's no jurisdiction. Now it happens that you can do whatever you want and whatever you want. I repeat, there was a problem. Don't tell me what happened now, I know it best. There's not one party that didn't force me to, to do, to win something. Don't let me start counting for you right here. There's not one minister who hasn't called anything, urinated. I don't stand for that urgency, and I haven't given them either, but if we have 700 construction sites on low-building facilities right now, so technically we can't keep track of whether everyone has documentation because physically ten inspectors, as legally provided for by the Republic of Serbia, can't be in 700 places today. But it is logical that no one begins to build, as it was three years ago, a highway without any paper, to dig up half the village and he says – thank you very much, we'll see what happens later. That's what happened. I stop it as long as I can and wherever I get. But the resistance is great. Last time I listed bridges and overpasses and hundreds of hectares of land in the heart of Belgrade, the centre was usurped without any paper and worked and built. When I watched yesterday, I was talking about it here yesterday, that at these facilities, the cubic concrete was 500 euros, and in Serbia the most expensive concrete was 100 euros. Now I can't believe someone signed it, ordered it and paid for it. I'd like someone to explain to me how 500 euros is a cubic of concrete and how it came to that price, and is someone going to answer for it? Therefore, it is necessary to enter the unit prices of certain facilities and see what these prices are. Where did the figure end up with hundreds of millions of euros? How is it possible for an object hit by a 38m-euro contract to be 108m-euro in the final situation, without any annexes? Is anyone answering? Is there a supervisory authority, are there these, are there any directors, etc? I started certain shops, that's what I was talking about. We've given applications and records and everything, no one's responding. Why? We'll see. So, is it possible that we've all criticised here the catastra is wrong, the law is wrong, nothing's wrong. And is it possible for one man to register 980 objects in the municipality of Vozdovac in Belgrade one day 2012 who knows all whose Republic of Serbia, the Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, to own the city of Belgrade. People didn't even know that they own the town of Belgrade and now they've come, they're holding their heads, they don't know what to do. And in Vojvodina, 44,000 of them. Guys, that's not one little story, and that's why we gave a warrant to the authorities to re-examine it. Imagine the man who lived outside the country came and in the yard where he lived in the Boulevard, see the building. Not in five days, in a few years. One of your fellow professors from Chicago, he came in with his wife, and after a few years of absence, he found that someone at the auction sold his building, where he owned it, didn't show up, didn't see it, the old house was torn down, there was a big salary, and the job was done. Therefore, there are many problems, and so I ask that we all help these problems together and solve them, not just criticise them. No, everyone participated, I'm listening to some parties here, etc., parties, etc. If you were to enter the property of some of their officials there, you'd see some factories that were giant in this country, and not just in the pasture, some giant factories, which are producing. If a man were to ask someone now, I'm sorry, and you buy a factory that was giant in Yugoslavia big. Where did that come from? How? And you took it all from the stock reserve, so you invested the raw materials you took from the stock reserves, as a guarantee to the bank, so you took out a loan, so you turned this around, so you did this, and you finally bought the biggest giant in the country. Now you come and tell me stories here. So, there's everything. To make sure it's as small as possible and there's no more of it, if possible. It's true, ma'am, that you were the local leaders. Local leaders were a miracle in certain environments. Not this one you're talking about, you're criticizing the Mayor's arrival. And if we analyze the previous one, we'd have to write novels, right? This guy just got here. We'll see how it works. Don't criticize him right now. But the last one was a miracle. I couldn't function there as a minister, because it was all closed there, and that's where I came with the prime minister of the day, to clear something up. He left us a message, that he was very busy and prevented and that he could not be Prime Minister of the Serbian government, that was when Vojislav Kostunica and I were to receive, because he has great obligations. Be careful, the prime minister and minister are coming to town, the mayor has no time to accept the prime minister, because he has great obligations that day and is absent from the city, and a visit announced for days. But we've been through it all. God didn't let it happen that way, that we fix it, that it doesn't happen. The situation is getting better, I can feel it. It's much better than it used to be. I was mayor at that darkest time, before the war, when it was very difficult and when everything was going on, but now it's getting better. Let's back it up. Okay, no law can be ideal, that's for sure, but something has to be a little bit better. Some constitutional court said it was wrong and asked to be corrected. I did not write the Constitution and do not say that it is ideal, because the constitution we have brought was a compromise of political different options in Serbia, to be adopted. Many things have been inserted here today into a modern European law that cannot fit. But what are we gonna do? We might be able to change it sometime, put it in order, coordinate it, so that's how it's gonna be, but if we have problems today, we still have problems. I have recently experienced the greatest injustice that exists from the gentleman spoken of by an MP. Someone put me up for some dispute in Belgrade, freed you from court. There's a trial going on in Novi Sad, and I have no idea where it came from, either way, on no grounds whatsoever, but the court is suing a Novosadian who doesn't know anything about it. We get there, and it's all over and imagine, the other day I'm listening to the noise, some of them killed the quotes of some eleven, not telling you that story, you have to pay family compensation for 11 people, and that's half of what I got in New Sad, which I dumped the file without any physical contact with a person. It's my destiny when I'm in Novi Sad, and in Belgrade everything's fine, but there's no good in Novi Sad. That's why we're fighting to be the same in Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade, and not now, to be in Zajecar, to be in order, but not all at once. I won't be long anymore. I think you're very correct, and we've been correct, because everything that was good, we've accepted. There were even more good amendments and I apologize to the DSS, but their amendments were similar, and I'm not guilty that our experts predicted that this one for shade was better, more suitable, etc. And that the PUPS amendment was something better defined, some things, etc. Look, I'm glad that two amendments to Bojana Kostreš were accepted, and at least I wouldn't have worked for it, but the experts said so. I don't have any here, because you're all the same to me, and don't think I've accepted someone else's, and I didn't want anyone to. I don't mind if the team's headed by a professor. Radinovic and Mr. Senic made a good solution, because we accepted it, and we will have a debate here, a controversy. If you gave something that's good for this country, it's undeniable to say it, it's good, it's better than this, but you don't need to get angry now, and his was good, but this one's better for shade. I say hello and I'll see you after my break. If I haven't answered anything, you remind me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25021	We'll take a break, and after the break is the first Judita Popovic, then Aleksandar Senic. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours, if necessary, in view of the need for the National Assembly to bring acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we're going to continue at 15.05 hours. Thank you very much. The replica lasted three minutes, so I'm going to refuse you three minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25023	Now it's very strange, as my colleague said, that I, with the modest knowledge of this area, submit four amendments to the text of this bill and that all four amendments were passed to me, and that the previous law had written, I suppose, the trust of the brains, so the Constitutional Court shot him down. It is not something that will help the citizens of Serbia, and I will not discuss this issue in this way. As regards the amendments I have submitted to Article 24, it refers to the part which states that the applicant is required within 60 days to provide the notice to arrange mutual relations with the Directorate, or the body governing the building land. Personally, I believe that the 60-day period is long and that it is further stalling the long-term and labored legalisation business, and I, by this amendment, which was adopted, have suggested that the deadline be reduced to 30 days.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25024	The word has been given by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25025	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, I'm glad to see you in that place and I don't see the need for the media to speculate whether you should be sitting there or not. That's where you're supposed to sit, and I'm particularly pleased. When you say the subject, I said don't strike hunger if you want to see the theme restaurant any minute. So, I don't know what kind of brain trust the law has written, but if we want an efficient administration, I understand that in the heat of a five-year-old and a celebration, which is 30 days, which you're not if you want an efficient administration, you cut the deadline to seven days. Maybe the government would accept that. You know, if you start to argue on an amendment that's been accepted with a theory like in a cartoon, when Bugs Bunny and that giant boxer are clashing, so he says here I'm allowed to do it, and then he does it all, so you know that I'm not going to do it, I'm going to do something else. It then degrades this parliament and you as the submitor of the amendment. Don't look too much at us and our legal knowledge or ignorance. We've seen your legal skills. Now, would you like me to quote how many laws you've passed and then change them within 15 months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25026	Thanks for the compliment, but it doesn't oblige me to react. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25027	I'm glad my colleague is following my amendments, but this, colleague, does not apply to the silence of the administration and does not apply to any time limit that restricts administration, but to the applicant. So you've mixed up with the amendment I submitted to article 36, which I heard you voted for, so I'm glad and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25028	National MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25029	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have submitted to Article 24 an amendment which does not apply to the same matter as the previous one, but primarily concerns the administration, or administration, where we have proposed that the amendments itself be added to the words "that within seven days the municipal administration, or the competent service within the municipal administration, should inform the applicant to provide evidence of the arrangement of mutual relations with the administration". I think that certainly the legislator should consider this amendment, which I think is good and refers to exactly the previous story, which is that the municipal administration could react much faster if we say it is within seven days. We shouldn't leave them at will when and how long. I again refer to those stories that you've told, which we're all aware of, which is that these officials in the municipalities often pull or stall, that bureaucracy is very rooted. For that reason, this law should make them do it within seven days. We've missed a lot of time waiting for this law. So, four months of legal vacuum. That's what I was talking about. We've been discussing this law for a month, and we haven't come to the adoption and application of the law. I think it is necessary to shorten, as some colleagues have said, all deadlines as the entry of the right of lawlessly built objects takes place for a long time, the legalisation process stands, and I think you should consider it during today or the next few days, before the vote, to adopt some of the amendments, as we discussed today and yesterday, because the text of the law, on the one hand, is very restrictive, the type of member who says what cannot be legalised, so it will turn out that nothing can be legalised, and on the other hand, is very liberal, if we talk about evidence of resolved property legal relations. Please reconsider all these amendments we talked about today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25030	National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Suzana Grubjesic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new Article 24a be added after Article 24a. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Algica Batić and Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted. The government and the committee in charge have not accepted these amendments. The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25031	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have spoken to you about Article 25. Therefore, it is a rejection of a requirement whose rejection has the consequence of the collapse of the facility. A request shall be rejected if one element is missing in that request, which refers to Article 24. So, the result is catastrophic for the applicant's request. Mr. Minister, indeed, the absence of responsibility to citizens, the absence of responsibility to life in Serbia and the lack of sufficient wisdom to really write this law so that it can be applied, not to leave room for great arbitration, for the possibility of enormous corruption, for self-will and leave the possibility that the law will not be applied if everything becomes meaningless, and it will be pointless if every other request meets the conditions to reject you, and hence that the illegally built objects are destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25032	The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 26 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25033	By amendment to Article 26, we have practically asked for the position of the 2nd member to be deleted, which states that one copy of the solution and the documentation on which the solution was issued is retained by the competent authority. It is absolutely unnecessary to take that view in view of the fact that the competent authority is said to keep official records of the solutions issued. Mr. Minister, the authorities of local self-government, municipal administrations, the city administrations apply the office business regulation. Under that regulation, it is impossible to archive an item if you do not have all the documentation, and this would also be a solution to grant a building permit or not to refuse legalisation, so that this attitude is completely unnecessary. For this reason, it is truly surprising whether the Office Business Regulation is not applicable in the Government. I don't think so and that government officials are sure to apply the Office Business Regulation. I suppose such a regulation is also applied in this National Assembly, because otherwise anyone could from an object that was archived to take a contract, hide it and remove it from the public or abuse. In that sense, we consider our amendment to be meaningful, because this attitude is completely unnecessary in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25034	Thank you. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25035	Thank you. This is about shades. I only added – it is available to the public. Article 26 of its position 3 states that the competent authority will keep an official record of the solutions issued and that the list of solutions issued will be published in electronic form and made available via the Internet. Just because it's available on the Internet doesn't mean it's available to the public. For more transparency, I wanted it to be that way, just so we don't get into a situation where we're asked for a code or a warrant later on. Also, what I have proposed in the principle debate is that it may be defined by some regulation, because in the very text of the law it is not, where this record will be kept – on the site of the ministry, on the site of local self-government. I would suggest that one of the following regulations may specify that this record is being kept, both on the local self-government site and on the ministry site, because it will certainly increase the control of the implementation of the entire law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25036	Thank you. The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Olga Batic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Olgica Batic and Susana Grubjesic submitted to the 28th amendment in the same text. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 28th Amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25037	Thank you. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members, I will take the opportunity to thank our Government and you, Mr Minister, for realizing how important it is to adopt this amendment, which provides that local self-government can make a decision that reduces the amount of compensation for the construction land for persons in the social protection regime, for single parents and disabled persons. The draft law on legalisation provides for a reduction in the amount of compensation for the construction land for the owners of illegally built buildings that built the facilities to provide their housing needs and which do not own any other facility. However, we felt that the law should cover both single parents and disabled people and citizens who are in the social protection regime, primarily because they are living in very difficult conditions anyway, and also because they would make a difference between citizens who were illegally building objects because it was the only way to provide a roof over their heads and those who were building for profit. I hope that local self-government will recognise the need to help the Roma in the legalisation process and to address the problem of legalising Roma settlements in an adequate manner wherever possible. In Serbia, in almost all cities and municipalities, Roma settlements were built mainly on state and municipal land and, above all, the facilities should be recorded, some kind of technical report on the number, purpose and type of these facilities, make some geodetic footage and sketches, and then, with the help of local self-government, and legalize facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25038	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25039	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since my colleague Srdjan Shin is rightly absent at this time, I want to thank him for the amendment accepted, given that they make it easier, among other things, for the users of social assistance. As a representative of the Roma Party, he had the need to thank at least this way for the accepted amendment, as local self-government is left with the possibility of making appropriate concessions to the category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25040	Thank you. National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted the 28th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25041	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law provides for local self-government to more specifically determine the prices of legalisation and to determine these discounts in legalization. It also foresees the possibility that, given the material conditions in which most citizens live, permits and the possibility to pay the permits for more wars, up to 20 here is the possibility. This is one advantage that is quite correct in relation to the citizens, because it is really very high figures. Experts say that, for example, legalising a 50-square apartment should be paid about 5,600 euros. That's when you split up and make it 20 wars and come up with a war of 280 euros. That's pretty much the payload power of most citizens. I'm afraid it's that limiting circumstance that won't bring this law back to life. Even more expensive will go up to 100 squares, those who want to legalize the facility, because they have to pay the war for about 20 wars if they pay 550 euros, which is also a lot. That's about 11,000 euros in total. Based on all this, I'm afraid that practically objects will only legalize those who have money, and these are not the citizens who built buildings up to 100 square meters for their own housing needs. It seems to me that it was good to separate these two things, meaning to separate those who built up to 100 squares, because we can consider that they were really their housing needs of that kind, they were building for themselves both for their family and for those who were building large, which were building large, huge, grand objects, because they were obviously in a much more favourable position. Right now they're put in the same position. What is important in this amendment, and what is important in the next on which Mrs. Banovic and I have submitted the amendment, is that it is good that this possibility is made to local self-governments, but on the other hand, there is a series of difficult circumstances that local self-governments have, which I will talk about later when I talk about the second amendment, because they will really not be able to come out to meet their citizens, although the law gives them the opportunity. Not everyone is in Belgrade's position and not everyone is in a position to have the funds, but will look at their empty budgets to compensate otherwise, most often as this and the former government have done, they will transfer everything to the back of citizens. I'll talk about it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25042	Thank you. The 29th amendment was submitted by National MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25043	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I've actually already started a story in that direction. So what the past government started, continued this government and has the exact same policy towards local self-government. The budget's getting more and more empty because they don't give them enough resources for those jobs they have jurisdiction over. On the other hand, their powers were not taken from them but were added to them by other laws and were further increased. Local revenues have already been significantly reduced for the last time this year by 15%. This was the result of a previous tax reduction. Then, last fall, a series of taxis that were also revenues from local self-government budgets were abolished, and construction land use fees have been lifted since January 2014. It is also one of the significant revenues of local self-government. In addition, in addition to reducing budgets on the other hand, they have obligations due to growth in revenues from the financial decentralisation of the municipality received new commitments in the previous period, new responsibilities. They all want to have enough money to honor them. Let's just say, I just talked to a man who's from the community and he says they have a problem with how they're going to implement what they're being imposed on by the Basic Education Act, an inclusive education to pay out of their trust fund. You forget, Mr. Minister, that this government is the advocate of this European path. Practically 70% of all commitments from the European Road Agenda have been transferred to local self-government. Seventy percent of their obligations have to be carried out. For example, water quality is a matter of local self-government, waste management. There, I mentioned the inclusion. The largest number of local self-governments is not in the position of large cities, is not in Belgrade's position. And other big cities can't respect, but, say, Belgrade can respect a lot of things when it comes to pregnant women, when it comes to pensioners, maternity parents, children. It would be great if all local self-government could respect that, because then it would be an equal relationship with all the citizens who guarantee us the Constitution. Unfortunately, we who come from other backgrounds, which are not the largest city, our pensioners, our foster parents, our pregnant women, children are not in a position to get the same rights and obligations, and then we come to the fact that there is discrimination. It's a good thing you've legally predicted this possibility, but I'm warning you there's a new budget coming. Please keep in mind that what is possible for local self-government can be carried out by local self-government if it receives funds from the Republic's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25044	Thank you. Member of the 30th amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 30th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidić, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by MP Olgica Batic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Kenan Hajdarevic and Bojan Djuric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25045	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this article 31 is in direct collegiation with members 21 and 22. There you have arranged this pointless deadline — a year as the longest deadline for completing documents of lawfulness, or publication of the law in “the Official Messenger. ” So there is a year, it is until October, November 2014, and in this article you give six months to local self-governments to bring in general acts to regulate the amount of land use compensation, i.e. certain discounts that can be provided for the payment and compensation of a particular layer of citizens. So, what's this about? Every member that we, by some amendment, wanted to change, to improve, obviously carries some flaw, some production flaw that makes the law simply inapplicable. So, six months of local self-government, you'll allow, that's a little too much. We suggested 30 days. It's rational and it'll only improve, at least at the very first moment the efficiency of work and local self-government when it comes to building land compensation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25046	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25047	Thank you. This is where we suggested that we shorten the deadline for local self-government to pass this act. As my colleague used to say, we cut it to three months, but believe me, local self-governments have been waiting for this law to be passed for how long, they have already made decisions, so all responsible municipalities and all responsible cities certainly have prepared decisions. They are prepared literally to use these decisions after the very entry into force of this law so that they can legalize all objects. Simply, I think that local self-governments, as they have the obligation to make these decisions, have the right to determine how much these prices will be for the compensation of the construction land and how they will come up with those prices. It is simply necessary to allow local self-governments to do so themselves, because they know best in which way who can pay and whether something should be paid or not and whether they have spent it on building that municipal infrastructure or not. I'd like to ask again what we're going to do about those citizens who have already paid for some certain, different, higher prices? Do we now place them in an unequal position compared to these citizens who will now pay? There are certain local self-governments, certain places where a lot is built, where there are a lot of investors, where people think that, regardless of the price of compensation for the construction land by the square of the space that is being built, above all business space, they have an interest in building it, because they will be invested, because these local self-governments have made a favourable environment for it to be so, that these funds turn around and that they have certainly profit. But what I'm still interested in, in addition to these few questions that I've asked, which I didn't get an answer to today, is how are you going to solve in any way in this law...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25048	Time, Mrs. Christmas. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25049	You just took 45 seconds from me. You have to let me go now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25050	You don't, you're not a proposing, but you've been using the MP's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25051	Forty-five seconds went by while you were speaking from our MP group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25052	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25053	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25054	Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Komic, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Jelena Travar-Miljević submitted to the 31st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 32 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Algica Batić and Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25055	We have proposed this amendment to delete Article 32 because it is absolutely unnecessary for this member. First of all, Ministers, in Article 32(1), it is said that the collapse of the facility, which was built, or reconstructed or upgraded without a building permit, that I do not read further, will not be carried out until the legal process has been properly completed. First of all, I have to tell you that it's not a good formulation. It can't be said that the collapse of an object will not be carried out. I don't suppose there's gonna be a solution to the collapse. This whole attitude is absolutely unnecessary because in Article 33, paragraph 1, you clearly recognized when objects would collapse. That attitude of Article 1 32 is completely unnecessary. It's unnecessary, Minister, and this position two, in which you say when construction inspectors make a solution to the collapse. Well, it's in the Law of Planning and Construction, and it absolutely has nothing to do with this law. That we are right and that this member is not necessary also shows the fact that in the criminal provisions of the Law you do not have the intended punishment for what happens when construction inspectors do not act in accordance with Article 32.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25056	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Jeremic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Miodrag Djidic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted together to the 32nd amendment. The representatives of the proposings and the Committee on Spatial Traffic Planning, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25057	Given the limited range of this law, that is to say that there will be over a million buildings outside the system, illegally built objects, we have submitted an amendment that will only limit the destruction to those buildings built on public surfaces, at intersections, in the area of natural goods, etc. All facilities, regardless of the construction deadline, remain, i.e. the provisions of the laws relating to the destruction, will not be applied except to the objects mentioned above.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25058	Thank you. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Srdjan Milivojevic and Ivan Jovanovic. The government and the committee responsible have not accepted this amendment. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25059	I would like to thank the Assembly Committee and members of the Assembly Committee, since this amendment has been accepted by the Assembly Committee in its amended form and given as an amendment to the Assembly Committee. In charge of this law we're discussing. I want the public to know what this amendment is about. As you know, several regions of the Republic of Serbia have hit major disasters and natural disasters. On 3 November 2010, the town of Kraljevo hit a catastrophic earthquake, Usce hit a fire, the trade hit floods, several villages across the Republic of Serbia hit the icefields. There's a situation where someone who built a house without permission, as he had to, went into legalization, and then filed all the papers and necessary documentation according to previous laws. Unfortunately, his earthquake damages the object that he set out to reconstruct and work. The man wants his object to not fail and to stop further decay, that object has to pre-cover, the wall, the omalterate, replace the carpentry, whatever it needs to do, but it can't get a building permit and has to address the competent inspection services. Some people don't have the money to do it the moment the crisis stops in the municipalities. Then a time passes, after a year, two, decides to bring it back to purpose and now, at this moment, encounters a lack of understanding of inspection services, reports are written to him on what works on the facility without permission, and only for the purpose of protecting against decay. A similar amendment has also been submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning in amended form, so that it is unanimously supported by all the MPs on that committee, and I hope that this amendment will become an integral part of the law and that this legal void will somehow be compensated. Otherwise, it may happen, knowing what our people's creativity can do, that someone deliberately damages an object that is in the process of legalization and does not allow it to be reconstructed. I thank all those who have accepted the amendment and the people of the ministry and the minister, as well as the members of the committee who voted for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25060	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25061	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, Article 32, was disputed, and when we spoke in the principle debate and pointed to certain irregularities, above all in the position of the 2nd member. It is good that what my colleague Srdjan Milivojevic understood extremely well. It is good that the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has practically accepted good suggestions and in some ways mitigated the possible negative effects of my Article 32. However, I was waiting to see if we would get an answer when we discussed this article in 32nd and the amendment to Article 32 submitted by other MPs who asked for an erasure. First of all, I'm thinking about erasing attitude 2. The stance says -- the building inspector will bring a solution to the collapse of the facility without delay if the solution to the destruction of the facility is not reached and if it is determined that the building is being built or completed without a building permit after 11 September 2009. What's going on? I asked, I didn't get the answer. I got an answer from the board that it's not going to happen anyway. What happens if someone completed 98% of the facility by 11 September 2009, if they submitted a legalisation request by 11 March 2010. He then completed the facility and, for example, did those works concerning preventing possible damage to neighboring objects, debauchery of the roof, setting up a thunderbolt to go, not to subdue the adjacent object or anything else. These are the works completed after this deadline, which is said to be said in paragraph 2 to bring about a solution to the collapse of the facility, not even part of the object, but an object. I guess that's where they mean part of the facility, not the whole facility, but what does that mean if someone picked up a lightning rod to protect their facility and objects next door? Does this mean that this lightninghead will be torn down, and then it will be ordered to raise the thunderbolt, because it has to protect that object, which is, for example, done after this deadline? We didn't get an answer from all of you on the board or at the plenary session when it was in principle debate, or when we're talking about amendments. I ask this as a question because it is possible that there will be a need for interpretation in the implementation process, or the application of this law. That's why I'm saying, I don't insist, if you can't give me an answer right now, but think about it in some future period in which way we're going to give instructions, interpretation or anything. It would be nice if the legislator had an interpretation at the plenary session, not representatives of the executive government to interpret the regulation that we are going to bring here. In that sense, I believe that some of these misunderstandings need to be detached, clarified and told about these construction works. I repeat these construction works that are needed in any case to prevent damage, as this is something that is necessary, and it is evident that it was done after the deadline of September 2009.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25062	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 32. Representative of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25063	You didn't notice, I wanted a word before this. In that case, I withdraw my amendment so that it will no longer be debated and voted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25064	As far as I know, you have to write it down. The word is by MP Srdjan Mikovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25065	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. If we have a practice that if the minister here at the plenary session accepts a certain amendment and it is considered practically an act of acceptance and without a single one, let me say, a written act in terms of withdrawal, then I believe that the word of the MPs, especially when it comes to the availability of his right, should also apply. So in that sense, I think we should take on a unique practice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25066	I can't give a legal interpretation, and I think it would be a good idea for you to consult. (The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: I will submit in writing. ( b) Bear in mind that we have a legal right. Thank you. National MP Srdjan Shine has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 32a be added after article 32a. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The national MPs Olgica Batic and Susana Spasojevic submitted to the 33rd amendment in the same text. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 33rd amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25067	We have submitted an amendment to Article 33, and this does not mean a full member of that law, because we believe that it cannot be a good enough formulation and it is not good enough, Minister, to say that the judicial end of a procedure that rejects or rejects a legalisation request is a condition for the destruction of an object, or part of it. First of all, when something is done, this procedure as a final solution has some act. Please, Minister, just take a look at the law, in paragraphs 2 and 3 you call upon the law enforcement officer in Section 1 and in paragraph 1, the law enforcement act is not mentioned as a term at all. So you have a call for an act of law referred to in Article 1 which you do not mention, which does not exist in that position. For this reason, we of the LDP have put forward a proposal to change attitude 1 and to say that the conditions for the destruction of the facility, i.e. by means of an act of law which rejects or rejects the application for legalisation, would thus be introduced, in practice, that Article 33 in all three positions has a term of law enforcement. The government rejected this amendment with an explanation that it is doing so for the same reasons it also rejected Olgica Batic's amendment, and that is really funny, because the amendment of MP Batic reads that article 33 is deleted. It means that there are not all three attitudes, and we are changing only the first attitude and cannot be the same reason why our amendment as the amendment of Olga Batic was rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25068	Thank you. The same text was submitted to the 34th Amendment by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic and together Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25069	Thank you. We have submitted an amendment that this article of 34 is deleted on the connection to the municipal infrastructure of illegal objects, which I was talking about earlier, and we believe that this is not in line with criminal legislation, so we think that this cannot be right, and that the more we come into a situation that new objects will not be legalised, so we are afraid that this can temporarily remain permanent, and there may also be a possibility that when the facilities are connected that they will then be shut down from the water network, etc. It is in practice and in the field a very difficult situation, so we ask you to consider and bring the law into line with criminal law. I think it would be very good to think about one more thing, which is how do you even think about solving this collapsing in law if, for example, we would like to adopt this amendment by a colleague who is talking about a new deadline for filing legalisation from the day of entry into force of this law, for example. Under Article 32, which says all buildings whose construction was completed without a building permit after 11 September 2009. We will bring that amendment, or we will adopt it, and you will have to integrate it into the law, but it will remain this attitude and probably a few other views. I don't know how you're gonna get out of this collapsion in any way. I ask you to think about this a little bit better and that these questions that I've been asking other colleagues, the minister doesn't use those 15 minutes of today's debate to answer us, but to answer us and that we can make some comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25070	Members of the 34th Amendment were submitted by MP Susan Grubjesic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Ljubica Milosevic and Slobodan Jeremic. A goddess. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25071	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All three previous amendments relate to Article 34 which regulates the integration of facilities built without a building permit and which have applied for legalisation. Without considering why this possibility is provided for by law and alone is contrary to Article 219.b of the Criminal Code of Serbia, I ask Mr. Minister if he ever talks about a 300m-euro investment that took place at the time of the previous government thinks about an investment in Boro i.e. to reconstruct the smelt and build a new sulphuric acid factory? If Mr. Minister is referring to this investment, I would like to announce for the public that the government whose President Ivica Dacic reached a conclusion on 24 January 2013 that accepts the report on the previous realisation of the agreement on the reconstruction of the solvent and the construction of a new sulphuric acid factory, and where another 131,795,000 euros are approved for the completion of the investment. So, Mr. Minister, please, when you're talking about some investments that have been made without a building permit, you're telling the truth. Now I ask you a question - this is January 24, this year, is it when the government whose minister you have reached a conclusion that accepts a report on the previous realisation of the solvent reconstruction contract and the construction of a new sulphuric acid factory and approves an additional nearly 132m euros for the completion of that investment, there was a building permit and did you then act in accordance with the applicable Law on Planning and Construction?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25072	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25073	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, each member of the law is one life situation and refers to a real life and if you have enough imagination, then you will realize how problematic this position is, when you temporarily join the infrastructure, such as electricity, gas, electronic communications network or remote heating network, water lines and sewerage, you are bound by 11 March 2010 as a reper of filing requirements for legalization. What happens if someone has not applied for legalisation before, but has submitted a request for temporary integration to the infrastructure? Will you turn it off now? What happens if someone doesn't even apply and simply has to live, the 21st century, has to have electricity, plumbing, sewerage, gas and the like? How are you actually going to do that, if you really think you respect this article 34? Indeed, Mr. Minister, we have spoken so much during this assembly debate, and almost all MPs agree that the law has serious shortcomings, that the members of the law are in collegiate, that they will not be able to be implemented, and if implemented, they will produce truly enormous losses and great damage. So how are you going to solve this problem one day in your life, in practice, if you encounter the exclusion of those temporarily connected to the infrastructure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25074	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) On Article 34 of the amendment, National MP Susana Spasojevic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comić, Mr. Bozidar Djelic, Aleksandar Senić, Srdjan Milivojevic, Radoslav Milovanovic, Jovana Mehandzic, Jovana Joksimović and Branka Karavidić together submitted to the 34th amendment. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25075	The Honorable Chairman, I would first ask you, since I would use part-time of the parliamentary group, how much time do we have left? (President: You have as a proposing two minutes and a parliamentary group 20 minutes and 45 seconds. ) Thank you for the information. This amendment, which I have submitted, refers to objects that can be connected to the infrastructure, which are in the legalisation process. The bill doesn't have any selectivity. So, apply for legalization and get your electricians out of the water line tomorrow, those for the gas, and join you with the facility. It doesn't matter if it's a housing facility, a private school facility, a university, a factory, a hospital or something, a mall, for example. I find this extremely controversial and from the point of view of legality, compliance with other laws and from the point of view of justice. My amendment goes towards the fact that, in the event of application for legalisation, the facilities serving the apartment, which are the only facilities for those purposes owned by the applicant, can be joined. So, that's what it's about for those people that you ministers, at least in principle you stand up for, refugees, displaced faces, etc., and I really think about them, too. So, to connect them with electricity, water and all that they need to live civilizedly, without joining that infrastructure to those who have built illegal buildings, not to say out of obsess, but because they have a lot of money, because the state doesn't work and they can build a facility wherever they want and where they imagine, and you bring them both electricity and water and you connect these objects. It's our desire to be selective. On the other hand, this amendment, in its second part, says that only facilities that meet the minimum technical conditions for integration to the infrastructure can be connected to the infrastructure. We can't release electrical energy or gas into an object that may not even have a roof. There's no selectivity here. Some minimum technical conditions must be met, so that someone will not be killed in those facilities tomorrow because they are connected to the infrastructure, i.e. they are included in the municipal system, and there are no conditions. It's not said here that there must be some minimum conditions. So there's no conditions. This is very dangerous when we play on the edge of the law. It's like the other day, that local priest when he put a rotation on his car, and he saw it from your colleagues who, practically, couldn't pass by the highway, all had rotational lights and man saw that he was the only one on the highway with no rotational lights and put a rotational light, as I almost felt when I was coming back to Novi Sad, when your colleagues were coming back from Vrbasa. This is the same situation. You will now, in order to help some people who worked, build houses because they had to escape by saving lives from Croatia, BiH, with KIM, building houses, building these houses, wanting to legalize them, they need both electricity and water, and you will now, using them as an excuse, give it to those who built houses because they have a lot of money and who knows how they got them. I believe that this is wrong and that you did not have the Ministers reason not to accept this amendment, because in this law alone, it introduces the elements of some laws, or regulations that already exist in this area, only details are given. I'll try to explain it through this amendment. I think it is unfair and the fact that it is now possible to legalise the facility so as to connect it to the infrastructure, and that those who have already completed the legalisation procedure under some difficult conditions are not compensated, that at least some of the next wars may not have to pay, if it turns out that in the same street Marko Markovic paid for the legalisation of 10,000 euros or 5,000 euros, and let's just say, now my colleagues are trying to put the names of some ministers, such as Bačević, legalized the facility for 1,000 euros. It would be normal for the local self-government to say, well, you were a security citizen, you paid a lot more money, now we're going to pay you what you didn't pay, you're left with the wars, now you'll forgive it. This would be in line with the principle of justice and then the Constitutional Court could not say that you did not act in accordance with the principle of justice, as one of the basic principles of our legal system. Minister Ilic, today you were very in the mood for the opposition, and we are in a better mood today than when we discussed the law in principle. You remember when you asked me to smile. Now I laugh more than you do. And why is that? Because you've seen where this government leads the country, because the fact has become widely known that in every area it's so bad that you have no reason to laugh, and I, seeing as the end of that state, am laughing more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25076	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25077	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would be willing to support this amendment to the opposition, in a certain way to select the connection to the network in legalization. But we have a problem here. They talk to each other and work the other. The other day or yesterday I cited those examples, or today, so I'm going to document it, that it's almost impossible. How can 19.9.7. begin construction on a waterfall? Here's a photo. They have the head of the municipality, the owner of the factory, connected to the network, unselectively, connected to the network. Who could have connected them? We have another document. That's all their paperwork. They say this - you remember the first date, ministers, 19.09.2017, without any selectivity attached to the network. They say it's a rock March. Believe it or not, they respected the construction deadline, illegal. They joined the network and built on 21.03.2008. They built it very quickly, without any paper. Connected power, connected to the network, and now they're looking for some selection. In the second document since 9.12.2009, the resolution of the province's Secretariat for environmental protection is like this - given consent to the environmental impact assessment study. I'm asking you, Minister - what's the president of the Indji municipality doing? In December 2007, this site builds, until March, connected electricity, connected all, and consent for a study on the environmental impact assessment of objects is obtained only in 2009. Is this not proof that the highest circuit executives, the then president of the municipality, the Prime Minister and the current Prime Minister, are opening this. The fact that it is illegally connected to the network, to the water, to the electricity, to the pipeline, etc., they open it. So, in 2009, they haven't had a study yet, and they built the facility in 2007. Is that possible under what conditions? How are they connected to the power? That's why I'm willing to even support this amendment, to introduce some selectivity. But how do they, in practice, work differently where they market power? They can build anything, join whatever you want. It can also be used to recyclable lead batteries. How can he do that? They can join the power, and you know whose crying was? The coalition partner Goran Jesic, who is paid from a cooperative, has been translated into a waterfall. Since polluters pay well, so can it. Then they invent a water catch from a spatial plan, and then they join all the nets without any conditions, without a study of environmental impact. How is it possible no one's answering? I believe that the Republic has no jurisdiction, that the province took it for itself, but the Government of the Republic of Serbia has jurisdiction over the prosecution, and they boast that the Republic's prosecutor is theirs, to initiate the procedure and to have someone answer for this, and then we can talk about being selective, because they obviously didn't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25078	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25079	I will continue, because some discussions simply don't deserve to be looked at specifically. I'll just say that the Democratic Party advocates the absolute application of the law, unselective to everyone when it comes to criminal, criminal and any other responsibility. That's exactly why we reacted to Minister Ilic's statement when he said, and he should now come forward about this, if he hadn't knocked down any single facility. I think that's how he sent a message that he won't insist on law enforcement when it comes to illegal objects. As far as our parliamentary groups are concerned, you have the full support that everything that is past the law, that your inspection goes into the field to check and if it should destroy such objects, such as the Tatar Hill facilities in Novi Sad, the "storage valley" in Novi Sad, such as the New Sad bypasses, etc., as well as some shopping and business centres much larger squares than mentioned today, and on the other hand, which have been built in the last year and a half, during the term of office of this government. In that sense, they are yet to seek priority in their resolution. So, you have full support for the realisation of all the law given opportunities, and don't be a bit selective about it, there was some president of the municipality, there was a MP, paid taxes, didn't pay taxes, had a private company, had no private company, held 400 or 500 acres in lease, drove a Mercedes, drove a BMW, it doesn't matter, it's just important that you apply the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25080	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25081	Dear Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I love these picturesque examples of practice. I just enjoy having such strong examples of practice on our fifth anniversary of enlightenment. I'm not going to answer anything else, I'm going to talk about someone's selectivity on the basis of an example. You know, Mr. Ilic, we were in opposition back then, and you and I, when the columns of refugees headed towards Serbia and whose policies and policies. It was 1991, 1992, 1993 and 1995 exodus, not to mention 1999. In 1999, here's an example, just as the current ruling coalition, over which Belgrade Mayor's candidate from the advanced tear-diving coalition, has been acting on waterways. You know where the waterfall is out there somewhere near New Market. There came a people from Kosovo to Serbia, and right here on the waterway, a barbed wire fenced, a 200-metre area, and they are like a caged people, Serbs who have left Kosovo and Metohija, so that they do not happen to reach Belgrade, not to reach the Enjub Centre and those who have a two-ar apartment, but to be forced to waterfall, in a wire to spend three weeks. Be careful now, the paradox, that they are without water or food, without being visited by anyone. That's where the people were placed, right on the waterway. They also had toilets and Polish toilets, although that didn't look like Polish toilets, tents. Whoever tried to get out the special force of the police beat him up. Of course, that ruin still stands today on the waterfall in Novi Pazar. It should be a monument to the policy of the rusty spoon that turned into a rusty barbed wire. Destroyed, not to stand the mockery monument that the political party, which was not called since five years ago, is not what it is called, but celebrates its birthday as it is otherwise called, has treated these people. It is a legitimate right for everyone to change the name of a political party, a political option and a political idea. It's like what we say in Chačka - when you have a cow Shark, it gives you five liters of milk, so you change the name to Belka, it won't give you 20 liters of milk, it still gives you five liters of milk. I can tell you about this relationship to the waterworks, but you see, yesterday we also witnessed the destruction of a wild construction. One political party in Vranj is located in rooms that were illegally built and then gathered yesterday in front of the party's rooms, 500 people, the drill broke down the door, but not because it was illegally built, but some money was counted there. Look at the wonders, this party is called the Serbian Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25082	Mr Milivojevic, it is my duty, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to warn you that you are talking about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25083	Thank you. I'll finish this. So I understand that you have two arches, one when you speak to the citizens, one when you care about the water supply in India, and the other when you care about the water supply in New Pazar, one when you share with each other in Tomine or Vuciceva, but don't impute us what your policy is, which is the decoration of your policy and what is the fruit of your policy. What you've cooked yourself eat and don't serve us. We've never consumed those plates and those rusty spoons.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25084	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25085	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. I don't really know if we should send you an e-mail with a stenogram of what it takes to get the speaker into the topic. You are obliged, not after three and a half minutes, but after thirteen and a half seconds when someone comes out of the topic to warn him and if there are any conflicts in someone's heads and they need to stay there and the amendments to the Law of Legalization are discussed in the Assembly. I know that many people in this country also saw and presented the landing of a large and beautiful plane first in the Air Serbia fleet as a landing... (President: Mr. Grandmother, please respect the Rules of Procedure. Stick to the breach of the Rules of Procedure... I would like you to treat everyone this way, that some rusty spoons that they left for the citizens of Serbia after 12 years of government, and in those rusty spoons they didn't leave for a single tablespoon of food, but they took away both their jobs and their food and their perspective, so that when they mention things like that, you can warn them and put them on the agenda and what they're talking about and what they're talking about. I want you to make a statement about this injury.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25086	Thank you, Mr. Granny. No need to take a stenogram, I listened carefully to the previous speaker, but I also listened to the speaker before him. So, since you didn't advertise the Rules of Procedure when the speaker was before him, and from your group he was saying, he wasn't exactly in the agenda all the time. Get a stenogram, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Babic, from the scene: I want to vote on the injury.) They're going to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic. Apparently, Mr. Radenkovic, he gave up. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25087	Can I have a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25088	No, it was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, not a replica, you have time from the MP's group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25089	Okay, about the amendment. We of the DS find it very important, regardless of the attempt and abuse of the pay phone by some predecessors, to make a clear distinction between people who should use benefits in legalisation and those who have truly objectively abused it in the previous period, through joint efforts and influence on the minister as much as possible. That way, not only as my colleague spoke, we fulfill the law of righteousness, i.e. Justice as a principle, but to finally try to establish order in this country. So to break up with one according to us unacceptable practice that people who follow the law meet their obligations then suffer for it. The DS amendment allows at least some fulfillment of that principle. What is certain is that both law and justice must be implemented in a selective manner. I know it's not clear to many in this room, but the fact is that these things are not done in Serbia right now. And you Minister Ilic, now you have a chance on a new small case, to allow people who are objectively poor property, who made objects for a truly existential reason, to distinguish between them and people who made objects for some other reason. There are many reasons. Maha refers to luxuriant activities and obtaining illegal property benefits. The system and the manner are present among Serbian citizens without a share in parties. If we can't see it in this assembly without slipping down a thousand times with or without a new plane into a senseless breach that is being extradited to the Serbian parliament and our public by the ruling party, then I don't think we deserve absolutely, i.e. You don't deserve to look people in the eye. If you're not able to make a clear distinction and the difference between someone who doesn't have the elemental conditions of life and someone who built a mall, whatever their name is... (President: Mr Stefanovic, I must really warn you that you should talk about the agenda. Well, I'm sorry, but I think it's absolutely in the letter of the amendment. Now, maybe my exposure is a little bit wider, so that's why. So, I think it's very important that we all in this room understand that the failures are made, that this amendment, in one small volume, allows some wrongs of the documents to be introduced, to introduce the principle of responsibility, that this amendment allows that line to finally be made between those who have violated the law and come to wealth, and now it will equally connect to water and electricity as those who are not only expelled from their homes, but also people who have objectively been unable to build a roof over their heads for years. You now have the Ministers' chance to do so. Serbia, which is watching this now, should expect a positive response from you and accept the DS amendment. For the hundredth time, we've been looking for similar things and you've always turned us down. I hope that, although it would be a big surprise, you won't be the one to refuse such a very constructive amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25090	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Members of the 34th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusica Morčev and Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go. I'm sorry, Mr. Lapchevic, your MP group is out of time. So, only the amendment promoters have two minutes each. Anyone else want a word about the amendment to article 34? (No) Olgica Batic, a national MP, submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25091	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You think you're bringing things into legal flows, increasing legal security, legal equality, avoiding arbitration, increasing revenues in local self-government budgets by increasing your sentence and very repressive. Penalties for legal persons, public utility companies, companies of up to three million dinars, and for responsible persons you adopted an amendment that increased you to 100 to 150 000 fines, and you increased the prison sentence from 30 to 60 days. What do you think of this kind of repression to produce some positive effect? So you're going to tear down the city's facilities, and the legal entities and the responsible persons you're going to punish are really inappropriate. This isn't going to be a legal state in that case, this is going to be one repressive illegal state, because you yourself said you didn't intend to tear down the facilities. If you do not intend to tear down the facilities in this case, you will neither punish nor punish legal persons, nor public utility companies, nor responsible persons. But if you do not intend to tear down objects then send such a message, so that it is not later that all these public utility companies pay enormous penalties because they have misunderstood you, and also those responsible persons who count on you for not being serious when you have stated in this law that you will destroy anything that is not legalized will not apply the provisions of this law, and in doing so they will be punished up to 150 thousand dinars. I'm sorry, but this is really at least problematic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25092	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25093	Here in Article 35, we have proposed to add a new position 3 that says funds from fines will be paid into the budget of local self-government on whose territory an illegal facility is located. Article 34 refers to criminal provisions, that a public utility or other company will be penalised, a legal entity that does not execute the exclusion of a facility from a network of infrastructure if a legalisation request is rejected. Although the reasoning of the amendment itself says it is not the subject of this law, it is, of course, fine, but I think it should be considered and that local self-government will likely have greater motive to work on timely rejection of legalisation requirements unless it is really possible. I believe that under this law and by the restrictive members of this law these objects will be indeed many, especially after the adoption of this law. So I think that these local self-governments should be initiated and this way encourage these funds to be this way, through this law or through some others, put into the budget of local self-government. Then, I say, the municipalities and the public enterprises will make them do it, and in small areas everyone knows each other and it will be very difficult. You know, and you were talking about how hard it is to take down an object. That's where the first notice should be written, so they can take it out on their own, so if they don't, then they need to get out on the ground. Then usually that company, especially if it's in the middle, they don't want to crash, and then the police have to come out, so they have to call first. It takes seven days for them to report. The very procedure to remove them literally is based on a building or a terrace that can last for two or three months. I think this may in some way be a motive for local self-government to earn first, and then to force their public enterprises to realise those activities for which they are registered.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25094	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was tabled by the People's Parliament, Olgica Batic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 36 of the amendment was submitted by Parliament of the People, Katarina Rakic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I understand that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a folk MP, Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25095	This amendment refers to the part that we can say is the silence of the administration. I'm sorry that we have to apply the Code of Infraction here and can't punish these people with more than the amount I've made in the amendment, which is 150,000 dinars or prison sentences of up to 60 days. These are the maximum penalties provided for by the Law of Violation. I wish these fines weren't applied, and that's just gonna mean that people do their job then and they just don't have to worry about being punished under this law. However, today, if I understood the LDP MPs correctly, we received the following messages. Pull the law. Make a mess. Leave the situation as it is now in Serbia. Don't let people legalize their facilities. Leave the unemployed and don't punish them. Well, we will not tolerate these attitudes as the SNS participates in the Government of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25096	Judita Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25097	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It is about us following the law, and as liberals, we always support legalism, and in doing so, we are also pushing for the goals that the legislator has just stated in this bill. This is to bring into legal flows complete illegal construction, to strengthen legal security, to strengthen legal equality, to avoid arbitration and to increase income in local self-government budgets. That's exactly the principles we support, too. We have also argued that this law in this issue with such solutions in its provisions simply will not be able to meet all these principles and all those objectives set out by the legislator. We have every member we have talked about, every amendment we have spoken about, instructed how pointless the solutions of the bill are. That is why we appear on every amendment, to point out and to shed light on how harmful it is for this country and for these citizens who are going to suffer huge damages, just in case the law is implemented, and also in case the law is not implemented. It's still a confusing situation about whether the law is going to be implemented or not. So that's what this is about. About one law without content.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25098	MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25099	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, here we see that under the advanced rule of the SNS, the only prices and penalties are progressing, and this is a hell of a dizzying speed. What is proposed here? This amendment suggests that those responsible for failing their jobs are fined from 20, instead of 25,000 to 50,000 dinars, with 100 to 150,000 dinars because they need fuel for those planes that tracked that plane to Novi Sad yesterday, where there is no airport. I understand that. It will be paid by Kruševac and Vrnjačka Banja. Why does a amendment like this get adopted, and what would I ask you to do? Imagine now, for example, the city administration, in which the SNS is in power, say Kruševac, does not issue such a permit. You punish ten times with 150,000 dinars, and you've already taken three million euros from their budget, and they don't have the money to pay in Krusevec. What are they gonna do? To go to jail for 60 days, so we'll get an efficient city administration. In that you say, while you from the SNS are in power, you will always stand for effective management. You're in over 90 municipalities in power. Change those incompetents. Don't punish them, because they don't pay for it in their pocket. That when they don't have the money to go... (President: Mr. Milivojevic, just don't speak directly to the MPs, not to the MPs, not to the MPs. )......................................................................................................... Not just an MP's group? (President: Don't do it again.) )......................................................................................................... Can I go to the government? I can to the government, since you haven't promised us any progress in the price and progress of punishment. The government has promised us Serbia's progress, but under your advanced authority, only prices are making progress, even though you haven't promised us that. Now I ask again, I understand why this difference will go in the price of 50 to 100,000 dinars, there will be a new landing in "Arena", a new escort of military planes to New Sad airport. I didn't hear it this morning. Did he have breakfast on the plane? I ask because workers “14. October" did not have breakfast, nor did many other workers have breakfast in Serbia, but there was money to escort the plane to Novi Sad and back to Nis. Were you looking for an airport in Novi Sad, and for this kind of punishment? It's a shame what you're doing from Serbia and how you treat a poor budget like this. If someone works ineffectively, they'll be replaced by citizens themselves in the election. If he doesn't know he's working, and if he's doing this on purpose, he's gonna have to answer criminally, not criminally. If anyone has any intention of destroying Serbia, let them answer again. It's not just political responsibility, it's not moral, it's criminal. The only thing I know in Vranj is that it won't be a problem to pay off, because there's 350,000 dinars stored in SNS rooms, so you fight over it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25100	Mr Babić, did you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure or a replica on behalf of the group, after Katarina Rakic also reported, so Zoran Babic on behalf of the parliamentary group, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25101	In one thing, I will agree with the previous speaker, and that, when someone does bad work, will be replaced by citizens in the election. You've been replaced by citizens in the elections, there's been an election, a nice confession, and I'm grateful for that confession, you said, we've worked badly for 12 years, and the only place where you need to hear the right voice and the right court of citizens, you haven't worked well, you've been replaced, and now you're waiting in opposition for about 15 to 20 years, you'll learn, it'll be easier for you for the next 15 or 20 years. What I think most Serbian citizens know, illegal construction cannot be built overnight. Irregular construction and one facility and one house, anything can't come up in a week. I hope, Mr. Minister, that we're building a country where everyone will do their job, where inspection services will do their jobs, I know there aren't enough, and I also know there are a lot of challenges, but everyone has to do their job. The illegal construction must be stopped at the moment when the first shovel is buried and when they first step, when they try to fill the first rate, at the moment when it comes under the roof, when the carpentry is placed, when people move in, it's over, but the responsibility for 1,300,000 objects must exist and have to correspond to those people who, by their actions or not, lead to such a situation. It is not punished here and I cannot accept the imputation to punish citizens and that this is a change in price, impact, inflation, almost, no more Serbia, because the SNS is in power. (The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: That's right! ) That's right, but I'm asking you one thing, since we were so small and divided in "Arena" the other day celebrated our fifth birthday with 50,000 people, what in "Arena", what in front of us would you do if we were big and undivided? How many people would it be then, but I don't know how many of yours... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25102	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25103	I don't know why my colleague from the DS got so upset when he saw this amendment of mine and when I heard that he supported one of my amendments on the board, I thought it was exactly this amendment that should serve that there was no silence of the administration and that everyone was doing their job. Secondly, this amendment does not apply to municipalities. This amendment applies to the responsible person. So, to people who sit behind counters, people who have been returning citizens for 10 years to get certain papers, to supplement projects, etc., that simply citizens don't know what they're looking for anymore. That's what this amendment is for. To warn. Don't punish them, don't ever apply them, stand as a warning. And I don't know why you reacted so emotionally. I just thought you supported me in this thing. But you obviously want to protect the unemployed, even though you've had a warning for 10 years that this law is not being enforced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25104	Thank you. There's the word Neven Florist, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25105	Thank you. Article 27. Please, Madam Chairman, don't let the bench drop, no matter who does it, the representatives of the position or the opposition, because this isn't a gladiatoric arena where we're going to fight and someone's going to cheer and sweeten, and neither are we who are doing it, nor are those who are watching this. This should be one amphitheatre of debate, to finally discuss these amendments and that we can all go to other duties and do something good for this people, citizens and the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25106	Thank you, Mr. Florist, you're absolutely right. Mr. Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25107	No emotion, really. If we're going to be dealing with psychoanalysis, which is your leader's favorite thing, trust me, there's no emotion. I think that much more what you've done to Serbia in 15 months can be translated into other things that are not about feelings. And as for citizens in the election, I'll just say that we got 200,000 votes in local elections more than you do. Also, I can say that what you have done in Serbia in the last 15 months, it must be acknowledged to you that you have successfully transferred over 30 municipal authorities, knocked down the will of citizens, I am talking about those who have received the most, and that in this way you have shown that you know that you do not know how the government is, since in no local self-government of yours except that you are shoveling anything else and they do not know. But the problem is, they don't have the paper for the shovel. Otherwise, in Zemun, you left only over 40,000 illegal objects. Your coalition partners are building buildings in Belgrade that have a ceiling of nearly two metres to save the same without paper. In Kruševec, Vranjska Banja and other places not to talk. I think it's very incorrect for you to talk about such things without looking into your backyard. And I think that Mr. Vesenovic rightly spoke of the interesting localities of your government, which unfortunately the Serbian citizens have shown that neither legalisation nor destruction are dear to you, that the law is a territorial matter in your life, and that what is important – 150 thousand dinars that yours fought in Vranje in party rooms for which no one alive knows how that money is in cash, and how is that paid for by buses? Now, let's say that we and the citizens of Vranj, too, because I see they're very interested, they're calling our Parliament club this morning, to hear how you pay in cash buses to go to your birthday party that you're celebrating so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25108	Thank you. Replica, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25109	Unfortunately, we are listening to another attempt to end Serbia's electoral will. Now, we've heard that DS actually won the election. I don't know how, but it looks like when the game's over, one team loses to the catastrophic 5-0, and then the coach of that loser team comes out and says, "We've had more corners, we've had bigger possessions of the ball, we've had a little better dribbling." You have been dribbling for 12 years and Serbian citizens said in May elections – 5:0, go home, you have not worked well. When it comes to ending the election will, I have not heard anything, and there have been elections in the Serbs, in Kovin, in Vrbas, Zrenjanin, Apatino, and everywhere in those elections, the SNS won. Your options were at least three. But, no, the explanation that has come is that there are no people living in the part of Serbia called Vojvodina. No, I don't. It's a small environment. That's irrelevant. We have power. We're legitimate. A friend of mine for life. Nothing's changed. Where's the election will? How is this election will proven rather than in the election? Don't you think that's where you lost both your legality and your legitimacy? Let's watch here for a while. (President: Time. ( ) As for Zemun, you asked the question – everything you wanted in the campaign. In that election campaign in Zemun, what happened? You've barely crossed the census. SNS was 52%. Who do they trust? A Serbian advanced party who has been responsible for power over the past four years in Zemun, or you, with cataclysmic announcements that you are the only sun in the world, not in Europe, not in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25110	Mr. Granny, I don't know if you can hear me, but time's up. Thank you. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25111	Let me explain to an esteemed colleague. Look at the traffic lights. You're a sportsman, so you know what that means. Look at 200 grand more in local elections, Mr. Granny. It is true, you know that no one here has knocked down the fact that you received the most votes in individual elections, nor could you hear it from anyone in the DS. But what you could hear is the truth that, unfortunately, Serbian citizens, you have also brought to perfection a system of buying councilors across Serbia. You have introduced a system in which in more than 30 municipalities in Serbia you bought committees, which to jobs, which money. And that's a fact and everyone in Serbia knows it. As long as you're talking to that grill, you'd like to explain to me what the money is for in Vranj? And why did your parents fight over 150,000 dinars in Vranj? Or is it $350,000? Because the money was well set for the buses. Then why are they fighting? I don't have a SNS problem. So you don't get up again and talk about the sun, because we know what your sun is, it's about how money in cash in a party register, who gives it to, based on what account? I know your bills, your virs, your travel orders, your foreign words. You don't understand what that means. Because whatever public enterprise in Serbia you took, the wind blows. Nothing's working alive. You don't know how to apply the law on public procurement. So, I'm just telling you -- check it out. In Zemun since 2007 – it has been an honor for you to win, but since 2007, your authority has not been able to complete one kindergarten. Your president of the municipality went to the SDPR and we don't know what a man's doing there. Who's the president of the Zajecar municipality in Zemun? There's a former driver, Alexander Vukic, in Zemun. I don't even know what a man's name is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25112	Zoran Babic, replica. Please, let's finish the replicas. We've moved away from the darkness.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25113	Speaking of buying, do you mean buying those trees that we had to keep in Srbobran, which happened overnight and were brought from Bojan Pajtic's ban? Do you mean those trees, Mr. Stefanovic? There were no hammers on those trees. There was no confirmation that they were brought from the private forest Bojan Pajtic, but somewhere from Fruska up, cut from the "Vojvodinasum". Do you mean buying votes with sugar, flour, oil? First you impoverish the citizens, bring them to the edge of existence, hunger, destruction, and then offer them flour from the goods reserves of Vojvodina. We want to get an answer to those questions. But what you don't understand and you'll never understand, this place here is not a courtroom, it's not the prosecution or the court, we're not lawyers. Whatever happened in Vranj, and anywhere in Serbia, the assessment and court must be given by the competent state authorities. If someone was guilty, they'll have to answer, but they'll have to match those who cut and brought wood. The ones I personally saw in a house in the Serb settlement must also match, as money is shared, as money is shared, Mr Stefanovic. So let only some competent state authorities say who was guilty and who was buying and who was breaking the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25114	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Neven the Florist, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25115	Here we go again very briefly, I wouldn't answer. My colleagues asked me to advertise again. Madam Chairman, I ask you to close this circle of replicas, to return to the debate of the amendments, to do our job as soon as possible and to be able to commit ourselves to other laws. Let me add at the end of this statement by the Rules of Procedure, replicas can be useful to the citizens of Serbia, and it is much more useful to do a concrete job on these amendments, so that we can devote ourselves to some other jobs, specifically, than there are certain words in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25116	I can agree again with you, Mr. Cvetićan, but Mr. Babic directly asked certain questions to Mr. Stefanovic. Now if I don't let Mr. Stefanovic answer, I'll turn out to be someone's side. Let's let Mr. Stefanovic respond, but with the request that Mr. Stefanovic not cause any further replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25117	I won't ask questions, I'll give answers. I'm really sorry, fellow Florist, without the intention of making a replica with you. The truth is, you're in the O.R. now. It is not correct to call to order, and you have entered from our list into the ruling coalition. It's already a story of legality. This government has no legitimacy because 11 MPs on the DS list support this government. So you are a legitimate government, but you are a government without legitimacy. What's also true, I don't want to ask questions, but I'm going to say that the previous speaker, the head of the SNS parliamentary group, was in that house, but because of the citizens, he was there to threaten and speak -- if you vote for DS, everything will happen to you. Some people in his environment were armed and he knows it. That's why he was there in that house. I think it's extremely incorrect to talk about bans, I don't know what expressions you used here, of course, with your lack of knowledge of Serbian grammar, but it's also true that you're talking about buying votes. Imagine that. Do you mean your glasses, shared in Koserić, do you mean the money you shared in Vrbas, do you mean five to eight thousand votes per voter? I hope you don't mean that when you talk about buying votes. So it's just amazing that we in this House are dealing with this right now. All right. We'll deal with how much the chairman allows us, but don't look for the thorn in our eye, you who have been in the eye for 15 months who brought the country into such a state to see how easily you get to the choice, to try to capitalize 35% on the national level, as much as you have now, realistically, and everything else is your advanced fairy tales.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25118	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25119	I will be happy to potentiate my forest lineage, which your colleague from the same group may tell you. The ban in Shumadia is called a forest plot. If you didn't know what it was, I'd be happy to take you to Shumadia to see, but also to hear what the Serbian citizens think about your authority, what they think about what you've been doing in the last 12 years, to look at the municipalities and cities where you expect a magic stick, and you've put chains and chains around their feet, to see people who work in these companies, who work in these municipalities and cities, and they haven't been paid contributions for years, and you expect Serbia to run like Hussein Bolt, and you've put weights on their hands and on their feet and now you say, come on, why don't you run? We're getting rid of your weights, we're working out the things that you're supposed to solve, that you're responsible for government, and Serbia is going to run like Hussein Bolt, and it's going to be the champion of the world, remember.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25120	Now I have to finish the replicas. We're going on about the amendments. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25121	The Honorable Chairman, I think the amendment is very good, will boost efficiency in the work of officials in local self-government. As I came from Kruševec, I felt at one point indirectly called. It's not supposed to be a flat-rate statement about the work of local self-government if we don't say something in particular, but just indicate how bad it is. You shouldn't be a vain man. If you don't know how to work, and then come to Kruševac to see how local self-government works, to learn something, to see what the city looks like in these 15 months compared to what it looked like 15 months ago. That can be confirmed by my Krushevian, your colleague. Don't bring up the cereal stuff, come to local self-government to learn something, see how it works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25122	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, two minutes. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You can use the MP's time group. Anyone else want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Radovic, Miroslav Petkovic, Milan Lapčević, Aleksandar Pejcic and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 36th amendment. The word has a People's MP, Bojana Bozanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25123	We have proposed to Article 36 to add a new position 3 which states that building inspectors in local self-government units are entitled to an additional coefficient of 50% of the coefficient established in accordance with the law governing salaries of employees in local self-government units, etc. So, the responsibility of these building inspectors is extremely large and, as we can see, the penalties are also extremely large if they do not realize that work obligation. Given the conditions under which these building inspectors operate, which conditions should be met in order to be employed, and also given that many municipalities do not have the opportunity to employ building inspectors because they are subject to this law, such as all municipalities and cities, about the maximum number of employees in local self-governments, and this is brought on the basis of the number of residents, and not on the basis of the number of applications submitted, based on the number of facilities, on the number of permits issued, etc. Local self-government comes to a great deal of trouble, and I think it would be necessary to stimulate building inspectors. In the light of the amendment, it is said that this law is not in charge, or cannot be resolved. But you are the government, Mr. Minister, representatives of the ruling coalition, and you can do whatever you want. So if you want to solve this question, if you want us to help, improve the conditions for the work of building inspectors, you're going to do it, whether it's this law or someone else. This idea probably wouldn't have occurred to me, but I was just thinking about the State Prime Minister and Cataster Act, so the amendments to the Law that were here a few months ago in front of the MPs, where you suggested that there be an increase in geometers due to increased volume of work, hard work, a small number of people who finished those colleges and schools, etc., which, of course, is perfectly fine. I also ask you to consider this case, to consider how and how to help local self-governments do their job, not to allow wild construction and building inspectors to be stimulated for their work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25124	The word is made by the People's MP Dr Janko Veselinović. The remaining time for the parliamentary group is two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25125	This amendment may be very important, but perhaps more important is the fact that, with this amendment being accepted, it would be very important, Minister Ilic, to make a plan for how to implement this law. A neighbouring country, which passed the Law on Legalisation a few months ago, has regular monthly reports of local self-government how many objects have legalized and those self-governments that do not deliver the report, which is not an adequate legalisation plan, and they have decided to legalise all objects within five years, these officials are either removed or punished. You in this law neither have benefits for those who will work anymore, nor have penalties for those who will work less, nor do I know if you will make such a plan. We of the DS in three months, if this government exists in this capacity, will look for your report on what you did under the law, because this law without new capacity in the people, without a better organisation in local self-government, is not going to apply to local self-government and government. If you don't set up a story according to local governments that way, if he doesn't feel the mayor, the president of a municipality or someone, even through a public appeal not to enforce the law, there won't be anything from the law. It would be very good not only to accept this amendment, but to generally take into account the application of this law, not to use some flat-rate estimates and estimates that can be interpreted in different ways among citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25126	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 38th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25127	Mr. Minister, I am convinced that you were not at the cabinet's session when amendments to the Bill of Legalization were discussed, because I think that as a man of the profession, you would certainly not support the amendment that passed on to the Government, which was filed by the SNS MP, which increases the fine to 150,000 dinars for one who does not issue an eight-day permit or does not bring a solution to the collapse or authorized person in the organ can go to prison for 60 days, because to you as someone from the profession, I think it is quite clear that it is impossible to do so. In the municipality of Negotin there are 3,500 requirements for legalisation, and only two people working on legalisation or two or three construction inspectors. That's impossible. When someone proposes an amendment, why do I say I didn't think you were? Because it's perfectly clear to you that it's impossible to achieve in practice. What does that mean, Mr. Minister, are we going to arrest all the building inspectors and all the workers on the issue of a construction and use permit? I'm sure you're not up for it. That's why I'm saying you weren't at the government meeting. But since this law is pointless, the happiness of this pointless law is that this Article 36 does not state who is applying for such dragon sentences of 150,000 dinars and 60 days in prison, and the amendment adopted by the Government will not be able to apply in practice because there is no member here who submits the application. Since you, Minister, have said that you will not destroy any objects, these dragon penalties will never be applied. Once again, please withdraw the law from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25128	Anyone else want a word? (No) Members of the 38th and 39th amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 39th amendment. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25129	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the supervision of the enforcement of the provisions of this law will be carried out by the Ministry of Civil Engineering. So, Mr. Minister, you will be in charge of overseeing, you will be a responsible person and your ministry will be responsible for implementing this law. It's your responsibility, no matter what you say here. You're going to do legal work with a bill like this. Is that your goal? Is that the point you wanted to achieve when you proposed and defended this law before the Assembly? You can't put that responsibility on anyone else. Your ministry will be responsible for any destroyed facility, for any collateral damage, for any damage that Serbian citizens suffer from such provisions of the Law on Legalisation. Start from the beginning, pull this law out of the procedure, you still can. Get into a new legalization cycle. You pass a new law and in that case you will have LDP support. We always advocate respect for the law, and we advocate that all these illegally built objects be introduced into legal flows. Unfortunately, with a law like this, you won't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25130	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 39th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Dejan Radenkovic. The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25131	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, we wanted to engage when the amendment was made to 34th, but I'm also going to connect this one to 39th. That's where we've been adding attitudes for exactly the reason, so I'm going back to that amendment, if we can get to that situation, and I think we should do some consulting. I think the heads of the parliamentary groups or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups who have been authorised by this item of the agenda, with the consent of their parties, will be able to match all of this, because Article 39 also applies to deadlines. So, if we vote out that amendment that, as far as I understand it, we got broad support that day, I'd just ask that we don't make any sense, to express ourselves in public, stupidity to adopt that amendment, and that these remain the kind of members of the law, where the date is clearly defined until when and by law, they're meant to be subject to legalization. This is specifically about 90 days from the entry into force of this law, and according to those reports, which were up to the date that was normally in our heads, as well as all citizens who are subject and who are interested in this law. I'm simply taking the opportunity to appeal to everyone, I don't know the procedure, maybe we should do it with the congregation service, not alluding now, maybe not even that amendment, but as far as I understand from the debate, at least as far as I can tell, we've reached some consensus, and we should say that everyone who's up until the day of adoption of this law, that they're the subject of legalization, and that's where we put the point. I repeat, let's put an end to illegal construction and illegal construction and then after that and after the new Law on Planning and Construction, that whoever doesn't even think about putting an ace, that even the judicial authorities then respond and immediately start criminal charges and be effective in this regard. I think we're all trying to fix the country the way it looks to us. My appeal is that way. This applies to Amendment 39, and also to 34, and it is they who are appropriate to this amendment, so that there is not one date left per article, and another date here, and let's make a confusion. Please sit down and make a deal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25132	The word has a folk letter from Susana Spasojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25133	By amending and supplementing Article 39, we had the intention to enable the owners of illegally built objects, those by 2009 who did not apply until March 2010 and the owners of illegally built buildings after March 2010, to allow them, in accordance with the provisions of this law, to submit requests within 90 days of the date of entry into force of this law, because in Serbia 1,400,000 illegally built objects. Only 700,000 demands were submitted by March 2010. After 2009, or in March 2010, about 350,000 buildings were built, which means that there are over a million objects to which this law will not apply. The question is, what are we going to do with these objects? Are we going to tear them down? We're not going to legalize them? What do we do with them? Yesterday, Mr. Minister said that the status of these facilities would be resolved by a new law on planning and construction, but we have already discussed that it is not logical by the same law to treat both legal and illegal construction. That's why we're passing this special law on legalisation, which is why I think that everything that concerns legalization of illegal objects is much better resolved by this law, which we are now passing, than by some future law that will treat legal construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25134	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25135	Just to say to a respected minister in favour of this that's the essence of what my colleagues were talking about is the same thing I was talking about, I was just trying to define it in one other way, so if this amendment or that amendment were accepted, then we would achieve a certain goal that I was talking about back then, which is just to protect those people, and it's about those who are socially most socially endangered and who were not in a position to take it in time. I would also like to express my gratitude to my colleague, Susani Spasojevic, who will indeed, by his amendment, who will otherwise be accepted, that the possibility for socially endangered categories to be legalised in certain municipalities under more favourable conditions. Unfortunately, the Roma national community is the most socially endangered in Serbia, and thus goes out to meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25136	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Nejo Jovanovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 39a be added after article 39a. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25137	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, there is no good enough reason for this law to take effect the next day from the day of its publication. What's the emergency for a law like this to come into effect? First of all, you have time-limits to pass the rulebook. The municipalities have certain deadlines to determine the compensation for the construction land and there is no good enough reason for the law to come into force before the eighth day of publication. We from the LDP in voting day will not support the law, Minister. We think the law is confusing and will not solve the problem of buildings built without a building permit. On the other hand, 170 amendments have been submitted to this law, and the law has 40 members, which clearly points to the quality of this law. The solutions and the problem of illegal construction will not be solved by this law. Today it is already quite clear that there is also a problem in the ruling coalition, since Mr Radenkovic of the SPS has submitted an amendment to apply this to some other objects and we have not had the opportunity to hear that this will support the SNS, and once again please, Mr Ilic, withdraw this law from the procedure that the Government does not fall before it is scheduled for new republican elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25138	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25139	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I completely agree with the previous speaker. I do not understand why it is necessary for the law to enter into force the next day since the day of publication? Defacto, the law will not be implemented until the minister has passed the sublaws, and the minister has not accepted a seven-day deadline for the adoption of sublegal acts, but has requested a 30-day deadline. Since this extension from seven to 30 days is far longer than the one foreseen by this amendment, which is eight days apart, I do not understand why this amendment is not accepted? When it enters into force, whether the day after publication or eight days after publication, this law will be difficult to apply, because you were stubborn and did not change Article 2(3) point 5) which determines that planning documents must be respected in terms of distance from adjacent objects. I'm afraid you haven't run an analysis, and that analysis would probably show you that at least 70% of the facilities won't be able to meet this criterion and they won't be able to be legalized, that is. registered with a construction and use permit. Once again, we come to a point called the collapsing of this law and the Law on the entry of objects into the immovableity cadastre, because under this law that we passed six months ago, it will be possible to enroll objects in a cadastre, i.e. to enroll the right of ownership of these facilities, and then these facilities will not be able to meet the criteria prescribed by Article 3 of this Act. Mr. Minister, you haven't even told us when to pay the compensation. Therefore, Article 12 provides that prior to the submission, the request is to resolve relations with the Building Land Fund or the Building Land Directorate, and Article 21 paragraph 2, it is specified that these relations are resolved after notification by which it is possible to legalise the facility. I'm afraid this law will be another dead letter on paper, as well as an end to conversion, after which you promised us two billion euros will come to Serbia. We now have a minister of business who says foreign investment is nonsense. Then why have you abolished the conversion and promised then two billion euros in new investments? Does the government have a position on whether we need foreign investments? Why did you promise 10 billion euros a year, over the next 10 years 100 billion euros or were foreign investment and foreign investors foolish and that Serbia does not need it? Finally, since it is likely that the minister will give everyone a lecture that he is struggling for the object not to be torn down, as his people, to quote, they are working on probably working in Bor, since he never mentioned this word, but if the investment of 300m euros is mentioned, it is likely to refer to Bor, how his people are working on granting a construction permit, I would like to repeat that this government on January 24th of this year has reached a conclusion that the report on the so far-time realisation of the Treaty on the Reconstruction of Toplice and the construction of a new sulphuric acid plant in Bora and that the same team, which provided or approved another 131,795,000 euros, therefore, almost 132,000,000 euros for the completion of that investment, and Ilić, once again, was asked whether at the moment...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25140	Mr. Senic, it really has nothing to do with this amendment, so please stick to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25141	It has to do with the law on legalization. I apologize to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25142	I didn't notice. Please, I'm listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25143	I ask Minister Ilic if at the time of this conclusion there was a construction permit for the reconstruction of the solvent and the construction of a new sulphuric acid factory? I hope you won't answer me by mentioning some banks, mineral fertilisers, etc., because I have given you precise references to the provisions of the members of this law, attitudes and points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25144	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25145	Here, at the very end, I want to thank all the MPs for their cooperation. I especially want to commend here three, four ladies who have discussed and been very engaged in parliament, but I also want to answer some questions that have been asked here. Here we have a team of people from individual parties who don't have any laws. They like lawlessness. They're all good, just not good at the law. No law is right, no law is good, all laws need to be deleted and their laws are the best. What's parliament for? Let's discuss laws here. Here, individuals have discussed that nothing is wrong here, and all their laws with this problem have been declared unconstitutional and simply removed as completely unusable laws and have created general chaos in Serbia. They tell me about building and asking me – government decision, one, the other, the third? In hundreds of phone sessions of the previous government, no one knew who was drinking, who was paying, what was being made, and what was being decided, and what was approved. This government didn't have any phone sessions. In previous phone sessions, it is true that Bora's investment was allowed to be in debt, to take more credit, to end an investment that was in the previous government of 300m euros. So, what do we do now? It was born, as the people say - it must rock. What do we do, we have to finish it, let her go. I repeat, in this previous government, this same investment that we completed and made documentation and issued a building permit was approved without any paper, without a building permit, and what was finally established? That this company, which got credit, invested, didn't even have land. There was other people's land. Then we had to solve the land first, so we had to approve some papers, end it, pack it up somehow in a frame. I wonder, I ask you now, Mr. MP, is it possible in some country more seriously in the world that someone is in charge of the state of 300m euros for construction on land that is not known who owns it? Is it possible without a building permit, without a study of justification, without any project, without anything to spend it all and say, we need more, anything to let go? It's not the first time that's happened to you. It's the first time, so it's okay. Not to mention the other big investments you're talking about. Yes, I am. We can talk about everything, but don't make me count more investments that cost 460 million euros, then the second one, and the third one. Do you believe that in your government, the previous one is more spent on ski resorts on the Old Mountain, five times than on Serbia's entire construction? Do you believe it? That's not even a ski resort, no one's going to ski there anymore, is it? That's what you've made some hotels that no one's using right now, but we're not going to talk about. Now you're asking me, why didn't the minister crash anything? Well, I don't take down certain local administrations where it happened. Here, you heard, there's a building chaos in Vojvodina and a total ride. Is it possible for lead processing to be in the waterway? I can't believe it. If that's true, then I'm asking the competent authorities to take action and check it out. If that's true, then someone has to answer fat for such a move that's been made. Is it possible that someone who's risky can build a factory on a field like that? I can't believe it. Believe me, MP, I can't. You gave me the papers, I can't believe today that's possible, on the waterway. Not to mention how much trouble there was. We are gathered here today to fix what can be fixed, we may, but the Constitutional Court has defined what is wrong, what has to be changed and what frameworks it can move in. All of us from political parties would like to join the citizens and say, "Here, it's all free, etc." You ask me – report, how many objects will be legalized? What are you going to legalize in one city where there's been chaos, where for the last four, five years, the whole town's been out of work, where no company works, except the police, the municipalities and maybe some other company in the municipality? Can you believe he's not running any businesses, gentlemen? Do you believe that you sold 36 companies in the privatisation process to a Pantomarket from Montenegro, five of them in Chačka, to me? This man brought all 36 excellent companies into bankruptcy, owed, mortgaged, laundered money, transferred to Montenegro, and now waved and bathed at sea. Do you feel responsible for that? You don't feel it, of course. I don't know who Aca Vlahovic was, so everyone else, so I don't want to list them who did it. Where did you find the man who destroyed five, six? What didn't you say? Stop, man, are you crazy? So you found some Bulgarians who came here, destroyed and made a mess in a paper factory, sold everything a kilo about gone and disappeared. There's nowhere to go. There's no address. You can't find him anywhere. Our farmer, when he sells the cow, asks where you live, where your house is, maybe sometimes I come by to see her, etc. You sell a man a factory with 2,000 workers and you don't have his address. A man who doesn't exist. Wherever you're looking for him, he's gone. Watch one thing, and the cow has a passport. How is it possible that a man came to Serbia and didn't have any paper? I don't want to call you back, but that's what some people used to do. Now it's getting in line and we're going to try to do this law as much as possible. How many citizens are going to legalize? They'd all get legal if they had money. They don't have the money to enroll, they don't have the basic fee. Today, for many citizens in Serbia, 100 euros is large. I talk every day, I take these people and talk to them. There isn't. We were left at a difficult moment. Don't think there's anything left in the budget. Gentlemen, this is the first time I've said this in Parliament. I left that government, so your government came. The rest then charged a billion and six million from Mobtel, 350m euros from "The Slave Houses of Belgrade". A "Vip" third operator, 300m euros, has been sold. That's what's left in the register. There are no dinars there today. You see how he fights, they stop investment to survive. The people are out of work, people don't get paid. So I repeat that we will try to legalize as much as possible, but don't strip naked. Are we going to tear down objects? You understand, we were going to tear down the facilities, watch. I understand some of the boasts they made on purpose, but when you look at the object that a man made or a refugee, or someone who came here and you see a house full of kids out there, they don't have a dinar, there's no job, yet to tear down that little house they have, I didn't have the strength to do it. You do if you have to. We gave them a chance, some chance. I know you've come up with a solution to bring down 300 houses. That's right. When I went and looked who lived there, how he lived and what an accident it was, when I went to see the Roma settlements that were acquired, so how to bring them down. You know how many kids there are? Now come and destroy them. I repeat, there's a fellow MP here who spoke well, he can't bury the aces, then the inspection should react. Don't let her move in and then say crash. Well, it's too late, then. There was one MP who spoke well on the subject. There's been political fighting, and we're all here to do something, if all of us can when we're gone, we'll be left with some results. Someone's gonna leave less, someone more. You say investors don't come. That's not true. The finance minister says there's not much to start building, not taking credit lines. He's holding back so we don't have much in debt, and so many people want to invest in Serbia. He wants the concession to work so bad, you'll see how much work he's gonna do. You have to survive this difficult time, to iron this all out, put it on your feet, and then with one sound basis run. We're in a lot of mud, gentlemen. Don't let anyone present themselves here right now – no one is responsible and this government is responsible. This government is making an extraordinary effort to make it happen. This people trusted certain political structures because they saw the end, there was no more light in the tunnel, so he said, "help and therefore give confidence." But that's why you have to justify that trust and it stands. The predecessors who got a lot of votes so you didn't show trust, now you've seen how you've been through. Promises fake no one gets. Everybody's looking for a score. I want to thank you for your cooperation. I want this law applied as best we can. In the voting day, vote on your conscience. You are MPs, and no one can order you to vote or vote. You represent certain environments and people. Any law is better than lawlessness in this area we've had so far. As of today, you have the Law on Planning and Construction, which has long been in public debate and which will surely be in parliament in the coming month. Believe me, you'll hear for sure these days, whoever wanted to get involved and that suggestion was working on it. I'm glad that many institutions got involved, and we found a common solution in the end, and we respected everything. When he was hanged on the site yesterday, today in a conversation with the Minister of Economy, who also participated and gave an opinion and suggestion on the Construction Act, he thought and told me that he wanted one member to change. The current minister. I took it and said it was a good suggestion and we'd change it. Everyone had a chance to participate, both the Chamber of Commerce and many institutions outside and out of the country. We've also included the office for quick answers that will work a lot to implement all of this. I'm glad she lives as soon as possible and we can do this together. Therefore, the intention is good. Your discussions are good. I understand the opposition as well. The opposition always criticises. It's just a matter of work for you to praise the law now. And we criticized your laws. Fair enough. I criticized your previous law. Everyone's got a job in Parliament and everybody's doing their job. I welcome you all and thank you for your cooperation and I hope that in the voting day you will support this bill by majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25146	Since we're talking about discussion in particular, I should give the right to a replica of Mr. Senic. I wanted to explain. The debate in principle is different from the discussion in particular. So we're still here to discuss the last amendment. Mr. Senic spoke earlier. The minister answered the word and Mr. Senic in this case has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25147	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I want to answer this full case of demagogy of Minister Ilic, but it is evident that I only have two minutes and I will not be able to answer everything we've heard here. Mr. Minister, I'm against the destruction of objects but you're not. If it is against the destruction of objects, adopt an amendment to the SPS and let everyone who built the facilities apply for legalisation after 2009. By refusing that amendment, you order the destruction of all objects that were built after 2009. As for the privatisation of this "Panta Market", etc., who was the minister of capital investment in the government who made the largest number of privatisations in Serbia? In the end, I have to tell you about Bor. The 300m-euro investment was not approved by the previous government. The previous government approved a 135m-euro investment, and I ask you -- how can subsequent works be 132m euros, how much did you approve in January of this year compared to the basic amount of the 135m-euro investment approved by the previous government? Is there 500 euros of cubic concrete? I'm sorry you haven't answered any of the questions that are strictly professionally related to this law on legalization of objects. I hope, since you've talked so much about the Law on Planning and Construction, you'll at least give it to me before you get here and you'll be able to discuss this law with us, not about what someone once did and who privatized it, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-24-0.u25148	Anyone else want a word about the amendment to Article 40? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We continue work on Tuesday, 29 October 2013 at 10.00 hours.
