ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30701	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask some questions that are of paramount importance to Serbia's future. Firstly, how will the Ministry of Agriculture be organised so that after the start of negotiations with the EU, we can apply in full capacity to withdraw funds from EU funds and these funds that are intended for agriculture? I'll take out some parameters. The exports of the Republic of Serbia to the EU in the area of agriculture in 2009 amounted to 640m and amounted to 820m in 2010, amounting to 980m in 2011 to reach almost 1.1 billion euros in 2012. Serbia thus achieves a growing trade surplus in the EU trade of agricultural products, which rose from around 200m euros in 2009 to over 500m euros in 2012. We will be able to save Serbia biologically, economically and spiritually if we treat the Serbian village and the Serbian peasant in this way. Serbia's recovery engine is a Serb village. In that sense, all those who are the only business branch that can make Serbia a safe profit should be examined, used to gain, but we want to see if this is legally a personal profit, buying a country in Vojvodina. We know well who these tycoons are and what tycoon bought businesses, hence the agricultural land in Vojvodina. I'd like to ask the Minister of Education a question. Although it is not fully competent to fund schools, as it is within the jurisdiction of local self-government units, he as a minister of education must do something to get 60 schools out of the blockade in Serbia. It is the essence of Serbia's recovery, education. It is very important to note and you have had it in the media, we all know it well, articles about the lack of chalk in hundreds of schools in Serbia, dozens and hundreds of schools in Serbia do not even have drinking water. We have to do everything, especially as the police minister and prime minister said at some of the previous sessions that this would be the year of the family, years of fighting white plague, and the schooling and recovery of the Serbian village may be the most significant and only time of Serbia's biological recovery, to know what the state plans on all these issues. I will point out once again, I have often talked about this before, which are the biggest problems that have happened to Serbia. It's exactly Serbia's biological disappearance. If I tell you that nearly half a million Serbia, or Serbian citizens, have disappeared in the last ten years, that there is no district in Serbia that has not been affected by the white plague, that every year there has been an entire settlement, say, the size of Gornji Milanovac, then we are absolutely aware that everything that people are warning about this topic, that the Serbs will disappear in about 500 years, which causes the greatest fear in every responsible man and politician in Serbia. I therefore ask the Minister of Agriculture to find ways to bring all the funds available from the EU funds to Serbia and to ask the Minister of Education to do whatever is possible to ensure that the Serbian school has normal working conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30702	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30703	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, an extraordinary census for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja is announced for next year. Because of the gravity and sensitivity of this issue, I am addressing the Government with a request to provide the following explanations on very important issues. How will internally displaced persons from this area from March 1999 to May 2001 be listed during the war and emergency, as well as during armed conflicts within the land's security zone, which are still on the territory of Kosovo, because they have not been provided with minimum return conditions so far? How will a considerable number of people from Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja municipalities who seek asylum in EU countries in the longer term, who will not be present on the ground during the census? We know that this issue of asylum seekers is very current in these moments and that serious solutions are being sought. Administrative solutions so far know what effects they can have, but the question here is a little more serious about the treatment of this issue and the provision of minimum living conditions, so that people do not seek this normal life of employment across EU countries. We know that asylum is now not given. What was given during the emergency war situations in the form of political asylum, according to the Readmission Act, they must return, by knowing what procedures they are, often stalled, but they will be returned to the country of origin. That's what we need to be serious about and make sure it doesn't happen any further. Why is there no question at all, why are Roma and Albanians on one side of Presevo Valley? There's no serious answer to this very sensitive problem so far. Then how do you list legally invisible persons, whose number is constantly increasing? Because, in addition to members of the families displaced in 1999-2001, without personal documents for eradicating the residence, young Albanians who have managed to become employed in Kosovo's territory in recent decades have failed to do so in their hometowns. We know it's there in Presevo, Bujanovac and Bear's unemployment rate is almost 80%. Then, I would more specifically look for data on the passive residences of citizens and, accordingly, deleted persons from the residence records during 2011, 2012 and 2013 in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja. For the announced list in these municipalities, is it ready for the Government of the Republic of Serbia to respect the laws adopted here in the National Assembly, which was not the case in 2011 and to allow proportionate ethnic representation of the censusors and instructors, and to provide bilingual lists forms. In the end, I ask the question why this extraordinary list does not apply any data provided by the Republic Statistics Institute based on vital events. Based on these vital events given every year in Presevo, there were 40,000 residents, not those 3,000 of whom the current government now counts and applies in practice, which I think is a very discriminatory practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30704	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30705	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My question today refers to the Library for Blind and Failing Persons with 45,000 books and whose services are used by 12,000 undersighted and blind citizens of Serbia. I refer my question to the Minister of Culture, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. I note that I asked an almost identical question on July 1st this year, when the multi-annual neglect of Serbia's civilization's commitment to the special publishing work of this library culminated by the Ministry of Culture giving up its funding, so it did not define a single dinar to finance these two special actions. At the end of June, to remind you, this library has almost stopped working, it has been collapsed. I must also say the following fact that the Ministry of Culture, in most parts of the state, co-financed the works of the library, its publishing library work, then the work of the library, is the bus carrying books to the users in Belgrade, and eventually the work of librarians and librarians, as well as all the other costs that this library has to pay off. At that time, he also reacted to the Alliance of the Blind who asked the state to pay a share of the debt of 10 million, how much she owed for publishing library work, but also asked the state to sign a contract with the Library for the Blind, which would transform the library after signing the contract into a public institution of culture. What they also prayed for, it was more a request than a request, is that a part of the funds that they had defined were paid at least by October so that the library could function. It's very interesting to look at how many numbers we're dealing with, how much money it's meant to be for the works of this library, so let's see how careless we are and how much on ordinary, simple civilization stuff we show that we're not a mature state that cares about its citizens. In 2008, for example, eight million dinars, 2009 and 2010 per nine million dinars, in 2011 6.8 million dinars, in 2012, were allocated nine million dinars, in 2013, not one single dinar for the work of this library. Then our question followed, and then they received a written reply from the Ministry of Culture, which said that it had defined nine million for their work and that these were assets that were about as much as in recent years. My question comes from this written answer. So is this obligation fulfilled, or is the nine million paid? Of course, it wasn't paid and that's why I'm asking, and that's why I'm asking what's going to happen to the funds that haven't been paid? Only the smallest part of those funds has been paid. My next question is, why haven't those funds been paid off? Who's responsible for this? Who is responsible in this country who is trying to call himself democratic, who has reached a certain degree of right, to threaten the right to education and inform 12,000 people, so 12,000 Serbian citizens blind and undersighted, cannot be educated and cannot receive information through sound books and in Brajev's letter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30706	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. We continue to work. Peter Kuntić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30707	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, I refer my question to the Prime Minister and it will be the same as I referred to a year ago, to which I have not received an answer, nor has anything been done on this matter. It is, in effect, the implementation of the Agreement on the Protection of Minorities signed and ratified by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and in this Honorary House. The Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Serbia, the protection of the Serb minority in Croatia and the Croatian minority in Serbia. It should be stressed that the implementation of the agreement in the protection of minorities is entrusted to the Intergovernmental Mixed Commission, which regularly met in the government of Prime Minister Cvetkovic, and began activities in the government of Mr Kostunica. Unfortunately, for two years there has been no meetings between the Intergovernmental Mixed Commissions. It's not good and it's not normal. It cannot be normal because this commission is a place where problems must be solved both from minority self-government, about education, about information, about the official use of language and letters and about culture. The small part is being solved from the domain of politics. There have never been any sensational arrangements, but every year there have been three, four, five problems both on the one hand and on the other, so count times four years, during one term, a lot has been solved. These are issues and problems affecting both the Croatian minority here in Serbia and the Serb minority in Croatia. The result of this mutual meeting of representatives of the Serb minorities in Croatia and Croats in Serbia is our better understanding, our co-operation, and I can say that our frequent visits to the Serbian community in Croatia and visits to Serbs from Croatia here in Vojvodina, have resulted in our actually eager wait when this new Intergovernmental Mixed Commission will be, because there are problems. Two years of it doesn't even move. When I spoke to representatives of Serbs in Croatia, I was told they were ready to talk. It has also been said here that the state of Serbia is ready to talk, but it seems that no one is taking care of it. So I ask the Prime Minister – when will the next session of the Intergovernmental Mixed Commission come? The last one was two years ago in Shid and Belgrade, so the next one would have to be somewhere in Croatia, in places where Serbs, possibly Dalmatia or Vukovar live. I must stress that even the promises that we heard from the president of the state of Josipovic and Nikolic in Tivankut two months ago were not realized, because there was also one conclusion that we both needed the intergovernmental mixed commission. Since I have another minute, and we are in the time of Christmas, for several hundred thousand citizens of this country, I congratulate them all on Christmas, and our brothers by Christ, the majority Serb people who welcome Christmas in 12 days, in advance of Christmas – peace of God, Christ is born.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30708	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30709	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question, or notice, is about officials in the Serbian Parliament. That's where I most likely need the Department of Justice and the State Administration to answer me. Namely, is it legal for officials in the Serbian Parliament to carry badges all the time during working hours, where even the number of IDs is highlighted? My second question concerns the Republic of the Stock Reserve Directorate. This is where I ask for a notice of which legal and physical persons were paid the warehouse at the monthly and annual level in 2013 and how much? This team before it was reported in the paper that I allegedly get three thousand euros a month. I have confirmation that I'm not getting it, but it would be good for the general public to know which legal and physical persons are getting that so-called. the warehouse at the monthly and annual level, and in particular in the last, 2013 year. The next issue is also related to the Republic Stock Reserve Directorate. My question is: how many wheat in 2013 did the Directorate, in millions of kilograms, lend legal and physical persons, to which legal persons, what date, under what conditions? It is no secret that, before the harvest, certain legal persons received millions of pounds, which affected the reduction of the ransom price of wheat, which cost the peasants almost 10 billion, or, to explain more to you, about 10,000 tractors of Ferguson, so much was the speculation. My third question is also about the Stock Reserve Directorate and it says: is it true that this Directorate, in which management has not changed for the last five, six years, has replaced or borrowed 25,000 tons of corn or 25 million pounds, and is returned to it 20 million pounds or 20,000 tonnes, i.e. Five thousand tons or five million pounds less? So I give 25 thousand tons to get back at me 20 thousand tons - that's not possible in private life. It's in the country, obviously. My next question is – what will the Government do to review the subsidies given between 2006, 2007 and 2012? In particular, I am asked to be given a notice of what to do about the procession of the grant "The House of Wines Zivkovic", owned by the former prime minister, where the subsidy was granted by the Ministry of Agriculture in the amount of 525 000 euros for the spring planting in 2007, although the mention of the legal and physical person leased that parcel only in November 2007, the lease agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture and had no agreement on investment investments? I don't believe it's November spring, except in Australia. What will the government do about the cooperative property that is almost missing, in particular, what will it do about the disappearance of the Agricultural Co-operation in Novi Karlovci, its assets, in a very suspicious and criminal way? The question also applies to other cooperatives. The next question is - what will the government do about "grabisation" and privatisations made per type of "three sugars per three euros"? As the government thinks about dealing with it, does it think about undoing the same privatisations, or restoring property to the state at the cost of purchase? The last question - when will the Serbian government and the authorities once and for all stand in the way of bribing voters in the election campaign? I have two photos here from the Leader, so the bow, the wood, the sugar, the flour, etc., and everyone in this House is acting crazy, as our people have said. So my question is - what will the government and the authorities do about it, the government initiate and the competent authorities process, to prevent voters from being bribed in the election campaign once and for all? We even have coffee here named after party, we have coffee "Minas", coffee "Democratic Party Gilas", we have wood, onions, potatoes, etc. The Roman court sentenced the so-called so-called so-called 2070 years ago. "ambitus" and annulled the election of two consuls 2070 years ago because voters were bribed with portions of life supplies, i.e. with portions of food. When will Serbia once get the strength, the competent ministry and the competent authorities to stand in the way of elections once and for all, regardless of who does, where does and how does it work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30710	Anyone else want a word? (No) I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Vuk Jeremic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representative of the motionary Lazar Krstic, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Niksa Vusurovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance Zlatko Milekic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Djordje Jeftic, Director of the Supervisory Authority of Financial Institutions at the NBS. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail under the First Point of the Agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE OBJECTION LAW. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Srdjan Mikovic, Srdjan Milivojevic and Natasa Vukkovic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30711	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have an opportunity to talk about amendments to the amendment to the amendment law and the addition of the Insurance Act, which the Government submitted on 18 December, and to propose that an emergency procedure be adopted. The law can be passed under an urgent procedure governing issues and relations due to circumstances that could not be foreseen, and the adoption of an emergency law could result in adverse consequences for people's lives and health, country safety and the work of borders and organisations, as well as in order to comply with international obligations and comply with EU rules. The legislator is obliged to state the reasons for the adoption of the law by emergency procedure. Technically, the draft law was given by emergency procedure, so let someone in the state explain to me if we all knew that the deadline that expires on December 31st of this year would expire then? The 234th is delayed, that insurance organisations should separate life insurance and non-life insurance and now, waiting for a teat on December 18th, something new happened that we didn't know. That is why the law cannot sit in the procedure in the Assembly for 15 days, which is an obligation for every law to be in the procedure for 15 days, so that we can all see and be able to participate in committees, and every MP, even not on parent committees or committees that need to be declared, that it can plead and participate adequately in the work. No, I don't. On the 18th, we received it in the congregation procedure, and the twenty-third session began where we were to begin the discussion in principle. We have received assurances from Mr. Minister that the National Bank of Serbia, as an authorised legislator, will make a proposal for a law on insurance and that this will happen by half next year. Namely, in Article 107. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia explicitly states that the right to propose laws, other regulations and general acts has every MP, government, the Autonomous Province Assembly and at least 30,000 voters. The citizens' protector and the National Bank of Serbia have the right to propose laws under their jurisdiction. Now, the government, for its part, tolerates the dissatisfaction of the National Bank of Serbia, which has not done its part of the job in time, because it is proposing laws from the jurisdiction of the National Bank. But the government has that general responsibility for proposing regulations both from the jurisdiction of the National Bank and in all areas at all. Explaining why the government didn't propose the Insurance Act, we're waiting for another entity in the state, which is the National Bank, to beg to do the Insurance Act. We don't have it yet. If we don't have those who have the authority to propose the law, why didn't the government do that part of the job, especially what exists, supposedly a working group...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30712	Mr. Mikovic, I still have to intervene.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30713	I'm talking about the deadline. I suggest that the deadline be reduced to six months, now I explain why.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30714	Listen to me, I'll make it up to you to make a deal. This is now an amendment debate. Your whole discussion is a debate in principle. I can let you go, it's not about that, but you have to admit, you know it well, to discuss in principle. Please, at least you who are lawyers and you know this Rules of Procedure well, that how much you stick to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30715	I'm trying to explain why six months of prolonging is enough to do a job and I'm telling the minister here, in front of all of you, that he doesn't have to wait for those who don't do his job. If the National Bank of Serbia does not do its job or does not do its job quickly enough, you, Mr. Minister, have the authority to ask the government to propose a new Insurance Act. The government has the authority, as the Government has the authority to propose a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act, because if it did not have that authority, you would not be, as a representative of the Government, at today's session of the Assembly and explain. What is changing with these changes and additions? The Insurance Act is being amended. If the government is competent to propose changes and additions, then the government is also competent to propose legislation. So I'm telling you, if the National Bank doesn't do its job fast enough, it's up to you, as an executive authority -- here you go, propose a new Insurance Act. If you're saying it's possible in six months to do it, then why extend that deadline, six, eight, nine, 12 months or what? You said in the bill – we need another year. You said it would be done by six months. If the People's Bank doesn't do it, give that material to the government, let the government vote, and we'll have a chance to do that job in six months, if what you said is true, and I have no reason to doubt that the job is almost done in terms of the new Insurance Act. And you will define that deadline with the new Insurance Act. Then there will be no Article 234, if the new Insurance Act comes, and then you can say – we saw that the obligations of Article 234 of the current law cannot be implemented in six months, one year, five years, we need 13 years more. By new law, you define what is the real deadline. I believe that if you define the deadline for the next six months, it will be an obligation for all of you, and for the People's Bank who promised to do the job and didn't do the job in time, and for you who claim it's possible to do it in six months. If possible, take the obligation, accept the amendment for six months. My colleagues from the DS parliamentary group were a little softer than I was. Mr. Srdjan Milivojevic proposed an extension of the deadline, not six months, but eight months, Mrs. Natasa Vukkovic was even more gracious towards the executive authority, she said – let's extend it by nine months. Isn't nine months enough, but it's looking for 12? In nine months, a child would be born. Isn't that enough? In seven days God created the world, and to you six, eight or nine months is not enough for this and for all those who need to separate life from the lifeless, or to give a new bill that, as you yourself said, will build a Chinese wall within the organizations themselves, what is life and what is life insurance. It's precisely because every law we wait for to be teat, and then we better make proposals for laws that haven't been made, which is why you've been in a position and I'm glad that you've adopted one of my amendments, it's become an integral part, it's an amendment to Article 3. It is also possible that it will be the last amendment adopted in this assembly of the National Assembly. In any case, I urge you to reconsider whether this deadline should be shortened or extended to six months, or to shorten the time limit that you have proposed in the law, from 12 months to six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30716	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30717	Dear President, honourable ministers, I support Mr. Mikovic's amendment and I am pleased to discuss this amendment during the day, not as we discussed the amendments to the Republic of Serbia's budget, when we discussed very important issues about midnight, and in a delayed transfer it went about about three o'clock in the morning, so that Serbian citizens remained uninformed and could not give their own court. I can't help but conclude that it wasn't an accident. Today we have amendments to a law that has three members, whose practically two are inapplicable. In this regard, Srdjan Mikovic's amendment also went, to improve this law in some way and to optimise it, not to give a 12-month period for such one, it could be said, a regular alignment needed by insurance companies to separate the person's insurance, i.e. life insurance and non-life insurance, and thus to adapt in this part of the amendments to the law. I think it is bad that this alignment is defined on 31 December 2014, because such provisions usually end in a similar way, such as the custom in our Parliament, that at the end of the year, such laws arrive where application of the provisions from 31.12.2012 is transferred to 31.12.2013, and now from 31.12.2013 are not being transferred to 31.12.2014. Basically, the largest number of laws, unfortunately, that have arrived in the process these days are delays. We're putting it off for a year, don't ask, we're putting it off. You couldn't do something for a year, so you're switching, or you're putting it off for a year. If this year could be extended for a few more days, what was our intention with one member, which we will discuss later, perhaps that you might fulfill some of your election promises. So, if December were to last up to 33 days, as you suggested, perhaps some of your election promises would be realised, perhaps Al Dahra would pay off that money you promised at the beginning of the year and possibly that foreign investment would arrive. Mr. Krstic, you're looking for help with the chairman, because it's not a topic, is it? But perhaps something from foreign investment to December 33, if the budget year extended. In that sense, I believe that the proposal of my colleague Mikovic is very optimal, reasonable and that a reasonable deadline for a government like yours, even as yours, is ineffective, inefficient, etc., is given to allow companies to adapt to ensure such an opportunity. I think this is a proposal you should accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30718	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) According to this amendment, the word wants Marko Milutinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30719	Dear Mr. Arsenovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief indeed. The point is and it is important to say in this debate everything we have said in principle, and again, and that is the relationship of the National Bank of Serbia in general towards insurance and the fact that the National Bank of Serbia is not doing its job which it has been obliged to do so far. I also cited it then in the discussion in principle, and I will repeat it now, because we here need to point out to Mr. Krstic the problem that exists here, who knows all this and from his reactions to our discussions it is clear. It is the dissatisfaction of the National Bank of Serbia, in which there are a huge number of people, hundreds of people employed since 2012, and before that, but especially then, and enough in the sectors of normative representation. So, a lot of lawyers came in there. He doesn't prepare anything and he doesn't do anything. Mr. Mikovic, I should also have a smaller deadline, given that these are all the things that are possible, if there are certain drafts, if there is a particular discussion that has been conducted in the matter of insurance, that by then, and before that comes the proposal of the insurance law. We simply can't stand and tolerate someone's unhappiness. That's what we here have to point out, even in this amendment debate. Mr. Krstic, I do know that you are probably unable to criticize the governor and the rest of the leadership of the National Bank. It seems to me, or you seem to understand what's going on there. It would be fine if you, from your jurisdiction, self-initiately referred the proposal for an insurance law. There's really still a lot of things that should be regulated in one better and more receptive way in the country, but we'll talk about it when the time comes. I personally have not submitted the amendment, not because I haven't had time, but because you can see the fate of all the amendments that come here. I think that this deadline absolutely needs to be shortened, that it shouldn't be given for another year, especially since we all know that these deadlines on December 31st mostly serve to re-emerge after that. So it's necessary to approach this job as soon as possible, because as long as we delay, we'll suffer so much more damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30720	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30721	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I want to support my colleague Mikovic's amendment, because for 10 years we have a system insurance law that obviously has a systemic error, which is that our insurance sector's capabilities to separate different types of insurance, especially life from the non-life, clearly exceeds the capacity of the sector. Thus, the government's announcement that it will pass some new law may essentially be the answer to this systemic problem. But as in almost everything, this government doesn't say what the problem is, it doesn't say how it intends to solve it, but who knows which way it expects us to postpone things. You were here, Mr. Krstic, a few days ago and you asked for the support of this home to delay the application of a tax code, so we see that you might lose the director of the tax administration tomorrow. We'll see. What's going to happen to this insurance sector? It's a big question knowing what's going on in the Danube Insurance, and he's still the leader of our market, providing a large number of public enterprises. We can see that the party that ran that company went into some kind of conflict, too, because the director's been replaced. We see that those who bought "number two" a few years ago, which is an Italian partner, has been selling the company for a long time without success. We see that other leaders from the world, despite some announcements, or do nothing, or enter our market in a very, very limited way. I'm afraid this is a delay like anything this government does. You remembered at five to 12 you'd be breaking the law soon. If you hadn't adopted another amendment, which of course I won't talk about here, you'd be in a big legal problem. Amateurism in public finance management, in economic policy-making globally, it can't be just your problem, but it becomes a problem for the whole of our society. So accept this amendment, because I think this amendment can speed up those efforts that you yourself have announced, which is to make a quality solution. Because it is obvious that, given the overall economic situation in our country, there is no way that anyone is injecting the necessary capital that insurance companies, not only next year, but in two to three years, meet those conditions that we have in some better times, when we have come much faster than we have now come to European standards, set for the insurance sector. Finally, our amendments aim to see if this government intends in the coming weeks and months to really deal with the reforms it's talking about, or whether this is a delay, as well as anything else, just an announcement of the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30722	Mr. Mikovic, are you answering the amendment? Yeah. ) The word has Mr. Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30723	I have to talk to my colleague, Mark Milutinovic, from the DSS parliamentary group, who suggested that this six-month deadline be reduced. I think it's been properly proposed for six months, given that the government thinks she's little for this job for a year. I don't see why that would be a little bit, but I'm still inviting you to have an understanding, because this is a time of fasting, a time of forgiveness. It's human sin, divine forgiveness. If someone can't do something, let's forgive him, but let some deadlines be appropriate, for example, for six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30724	Mr. Milutinovic answered the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30725	Thank you. I'm sure this is a time of forgiveness, and we all need to show that dose of humanity. Here, in that sense, I forgive the minister, while this Christmas post lasts. But a joke aside, although there's a lot of truth in what we said, you'll have to as a government and as a ministry, in the necessary co-operation with the National Bank of Serbia, to act as quickly as possible into the procedure of this law. That is why I cannot support these amendments by my colleagues Milivojevic and colleagues, given that the deadline is even longer. Eventually, I can consider supporting Mr. Mikovic's amendment, although I think this deadline should have been shorter. I'm telling you, hundreds of people have entered the National Bank of Serbia, hundreds of people, you know that. I think there can be a great team of experts, I suppose, who can do and prepare in time I've prepared that text and a bill of law. With this in mind, we will not continue to criticise, given everything that counterpart Mikovic said, bearing in mind the Christmas post, but we should really consider this, because this is all a debate about our system, about the state in which our institutions, including the National Bank of Serbia, are located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30726	Thank you. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30727	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, let's talk about the profession. Let's avoid things of a formal nature whether the National Bank will submit this bill or do so by the government, within which time and some of the things that have to do with politics, and have nothing to do with the profession. In Serbia, 27 insurance companies operate and operate. Twenty-three is insurance, and four is resecuritizing. According to accurate data in 2013, this year, based on first quarter data, the insurance market had a growth of 2.29% compared to the same period last year, compared to the same period in 2012, which is equivalent to 15.25 billion dinars. The total contribution to life insurance premiums is 19.28%. The figure is growing, however it remains smaller than most European countries. Most of the 27 insurance companies that operate and work in Serbia are foreign insurance companies that have entered our market either through acquisitions or through greenfield investments. We can't play with that market. We can't send a bad message to those people. The purpose of moving such a legal law is to apply the law to the department of composite societies. A large number of insurance companies operating in Serbia are composite. What does a composite mean? They provide both life insurance and non-life insurance. Such a bill, which is not the rules of the SNS, and this government of the Republic of Serbia has envisioned separation. On the one hand, there's a logic that the premiums and the lifespans don't spill, not lifeless and vice versa. But is it meant to be new companies? Is the point of making new expenses for these companies? It's not. I think the solutions that will be envisaged, I guess the new law on insurance is that they're accountingly separated just so they don't make new business costs, because these operating costs are probably to be overstretched, which is of course not our goal, or maybe some of these 27 companies would want us to drive out of our country, which is also not the goal. Which is why I wouldn't bid on six months, nine months, a year, and that's why the SNS against this amendment is more of a story-opener than it is about essence. It does not take the government or the National Bank of Serbia to propose a new law for six months, but how long it takes these 27 insurance companies to prepare for such a thing. How long do they need if they're going to be separated into life insurance? How long does it take even to accountingly separate premiums? You think he can do it overnight? You think he can do it in six months. He can't. That's why it's good to contact, communicate, inform, not just tell a political story and open for a while. Yes, parliament is a place to argue, I agree. But the responsibility for this year isn't on the draftr of the law, because if the previous government had written and adopted some other majority was good, we wouldn't have gone with the new law. They'd use that one, but it wasn't good. That's what everyone says he wasn't good. There are a lot of grudges from both the insurance companies and the state and all of them. A year is the time it takes, not just to write laws, not just to pass laws. A year is the time it takes for companies to prepare for application and consumption of the law. Can we endure any segment of our society, say they will have some luft at a time when they will be able to apply and no law will apply? We can't. Some things have to be done on the walk. For this reason, the time of a year is quite enough and therefore the SNS will not support this amendment either, but other amendments that were more ominous than they were essentially and subdued by the profession.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30728	The word has been given by MP Srdjan Mikovic, by amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30729	Yes, since it's my amendment, if you won't allow me a replica, I will, within the time we have, about the amendment. Here are certain flat-rate estimates, whether someone is involved in politics or trying to advance the text of the law, and it is said – if a six-month period was accepted, the insurance houses would have been expelled from the state, without Srdjan Mikovic's amendment to request that the law enter into force the next day, all insurance houses would have been late on January 1st. Explain to me who deals with the essence and who deals with politics? When I saw the total illogicality that there was no possibility that the law could enter into force in 2013, and the deadline was December 31st 2013, I immediately submitted an amendment not to be totally groundless. Now I'm being transferred to what I suggested to be a six-month deadline. You see, it's said in our people if you're in a hurry somewhere, you won't be late in time. If you're not on time, then you're threatening to be late. That's why I say that in time it started making insurance laws, which could have been done by the National Bank of Serbia, it could have been done by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it could have even done by any MP. Normally, this is a tough law that I expect first of all for those who have and have greater resources and to propose such a law. Anyway, here, we from the DS Group are willing, if you don't have enough experts, knowledge to do it to help you do it. I think six months is an absolutely appropriate time-limit to make the law right. Either to make the law right or to oblige the insurance company within that time limit to comply with the current provisions of the Insurance Act and to no longer extend that period laid down in Article 234. Insurance laws. So, anyway, I think she's assessing that someone's done this or that. I didn't say that someone was adamantly saying when the law should come into force, and our government obviously did it in a sense when it proposed a deadline for entry into force such that it absolutely devised the whole law. So in this sense, our suggestions are quite well-intentioned, appropriate, especially given the discussion of Mr. Minister who assured us that the new law would be in the first six months. The new law will also define a deadline for the possible separation of life from non-life insurance or other means and another system of accounting or any separation in the business of insurance houses, that possibly one insurance house deals with both, so that the premiums are not overrun. Anyway, not everyone has to spend New Year's Eve on vacation, if it's an emergency. Let's work through the New Year's and during January, to reach an adequate legislative proposal, so that everyone can declare this through January, February or March of the month, already at the beginning of the regular session and adopt the law. Only if you really think that this amendment to Article 3 adopted by the Government will be the last to be considered and the last amendment adopted in this assembly of the National Assembly, then I understand why some longer deadlines are needed, who knows what deadlines.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30730	Mr. Babic, is it an amendment? Replica? No, by amendment, I apologize. The first word is Radoslav Komlenović, since it comes first, then you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30731	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are a lot of things here that aren't that accurate, and last time we discussed it, the same goes for that. I will only in terms of insurance and life and non-life, this part that needs to be separated, as Mr Babic said just now, composite and non-positive societies, in 2007, another company from Austria, "Unico Insurance", which has been operating in Serbia's premises since 2006, has separated life from non-life, and people have invested double capital and double deposit. I don't know if any other companies have done it in Serbia's space, but the question is whether those societies that have separated lives from non-life, whether they operate under the same conditions and whether they have the same costs. I'm telling you that they don't have the same costs, because inter-companional costs are much higher for these companies that separated these two types of insurance and there's a problem with employees, because some lead 80% in life, and 20% in non-life, they're bigger taxes and this company has to have two auditors. One non-life insurance auditor, one for life insurance, so it should be done as soon as possible and all those houses operate under the same conditions. I'd just say one more thing that all these funds, life, nonlife, auto responsibility, accidents, can't spill, because they're still under the laws of the National Bank, they can't spill from one fund to another, but every fund is for themselves and every fund is for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30732	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic, as amended.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30733	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, what to say without looking like a replica. Some experts have written this bill that has not been fully applied, because it is not a good law. Now it honors this government as quickly as possible and doesn't change things any faster, offering again that these same people who wrote something bad, write now and a new law, if we don't have experts, that is, this government to write. No, thank you. We don't need anything that's gonna be unusable again. We don't need anything that won't be applied. If you're referring to such experts, I don't think you're necessary. They repeat as many times as it takes, a year is the deadline it takes, not to write laws, the new law on insurance, not to vote in the National Assembly, so we will now come to our senses and work on Saturdays and Sundays. We'll work. It is necessary for 27 insurance companies to prepare for the application of the law. It can't be done overnight, there's a lot of systems, a lot of fuses, a delicate job, we can't get out of these people, what kind of picture we're putting into the world, asking these people to get ready and start tomorrow. He can't. That's why it takes a year. One small depression, whether this amendment adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the last in this year or in this meeting, I don't think some people should be happy. He shouldn't be looking forward to it. This government has done much more in a year and a half than it has been before for full convocations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30734	First he has the word Marijan Risticevic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30735	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, reporting by amendment. As I understand it, this is just a matter of time-limit and I think insurance companies should be given time, and the legislator should also think carefully about what will stand in the new insurance law, i.e. that the Assembly is actively involved in planning and adopting some new insurance law. What interests me as president of the People's Peasants' Party is that the list of compulsory insurance is expanded and that it covers agriculture. We all swear on agriculture and that's our big chance, and when we get to the Parliament and the government, that chance goes unrefundable. With that in mind, I think insurance obligations should also include insurance for agricultural crops from frosts, floods, cities, droughts, from natural disasters. Here I ask that the cost goes to the burden of the Republic of Serbia's budget, that at least 90%, and so far the government has participated in certain insurances, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, in flood insurance and the city, from the drought even more significant. I would like the state's participation in the insurance of crops and agricultural production to be far greater and that it falls under mandatory insurance and that in future law it is built in, that we do not argue here about some date in the amendments, but that through this debate we are asking that protection of those who operate under the clear sky be built in the future law, that they be protected from elementary disasters and that the state participates in it, so that there is never enough rockets to defend us from the city, no one can protect us from the drought, never as the minister said, can he telephone Jesus to send rain or not send floods or rain. Therefore, it should be kept in mind that our country protects itself, namely that branch of the economy it believes to be a developmental opportunity, to protect it from these elemental disasters, to create conditions for them, that in the years when there are extreme droughts, some floods, areas that are threatened by the city, to be built through insurance, and of course through insurance houses that will reassurate that kind of risk, that in this way aids agriculture and I welcome the efforts of the opposition, which slowly in its programme, is that agriculture, food industry and energy, what is significant in my programme, is that this is a great opportunity for the development of Serbia itself. We're here to discuss that date, but nobody cares what we eat tomorrow, what we process. So I think it's more important that in the future we make sure that in the list of mandatory insurance, and there are colleagues who know it, there's also the provision of crops from a natural disaster, given that our years are getting more and more dry and therefore I think insurance houses through reassurance can do it relatively, for far less damage, solve it in some future period. So I demand from the future legislator that what we're saying and what I'm saying is that the factory under the clear sky in which we need to build all other factories, to protect it at least at the level to be protected from elemental disasters. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30736	I ask the MPs to make their discussions look like agendas. The word has been given by MP Janko Veselinovic, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30737	A debate on this amendment has been opened, and it was said in the debate that by delaying a year something will go forward. Unfortunately, most of the laws that come now or have arrived already in the procedure are being delayed. I don't know in which way the delay leads forward, whether in any area of life when you delay something, or if you go through that folk – half the problem will be resolved by delay. Only because this government has no other instruments. When you said that the government, this government, was your last sentence, probably fearing that the chairman would warn you, you said that this government had done it for a year and a half for the entire term. (Zoran Babiæ, from place: More. ) Yes, more has been more in debt in a year than the previous government for the entire mandate and will be in debt next year when it is added more than all governments have been in debt so far. Now that doesn't suit you. Ninety-seven euros a second you're in debt. In that sense, you are truly world champions, not European, world champions. When it comes to general law enforcement, you're world champions. How can this law not be delayed for six months, how is it impossible to realize that in six months? You managed to reconstruct the government in six months, bring in all the great experts to make us happy, to improve the standard of citizens who are no longer in line in folk cuisines, there is no need for that because everyone lives in prosperity, folk cuisines have been abolished as an institution, Serbs are employed, not every day 600 new unemployed. (Zoran Babic, from the site: Theme. ) Here, Mr. Granny, since you say – theme, I'll finish this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30738	Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30739	I see that my colleagues have been doing so much in Odjac, Kostolc, in Vozdovac. As many as they repeated, so did the election. How many people trust them have shown in the elections, but they continue with the same mantra. Mantra from the Crown, paper to everyone, repeat this to nonsense, repeat it, even though it has nothing to do with the truth, but repeat it even though it's still a dubiosis, but you will repeat it further. In any case, you've probably worked here in these three municipalities with the coffee that's been shared. Probably, you drink this kind of coffee, I don't know if it was empty or full, probably full, because your colleague's smiling, so probably with this kind of coffee with the citizens, but the citizens didn't believe you. I will answer the question asked – how is the delay leading forward? It leads forward, because the application of the bad laws that the previous government adopted in any case leads backwards. Well, it's better not to apply than to apply bad and go backwards. That's the difference. That is why this delay and delay until the adoption of a new law that will in the best interest of both citizens and insurance companies, and the state will pass a new insurance law. As the law is now in force, it will best be said by the professional public.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30740	Mr. Veselinović, is it a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30741	I think we should respect the dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107. As an illustration of what I'm about to say, I urge you to open a draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act to determine whether the previous government was in 2004, when the Insurance Act was passed, no, someone else was in power, or...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30742	Please don't...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30743	I have to tell you, the truth is told...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30744	Please do the replica now. You're misusing the Rules of Procedure, I won't let you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30745	You're giving me a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30747	Thank you, Chairman. We've heard that bad laws need to be delayed so that they can be improved over a certain period of time. I guess if the law is bad, that law should be changed. You had the opportunity to propose a new insurance law and today we're discussing the Insurance Act, not three members of an amendment to the Insurance Act, of which, again, I must repeat, are two inapplicable. Only because of Mr. Mikovic's amendment to one of these amendments, the law will generally be able to be applied without serious consequences, i.e. no legal gap. We will repeat the truth as long as we can, as long as you don't forbid us and shut down all the media, even though you're on your way. We are going to repeat the truth, is that 600 people lose their jobs a day, that 97 euros per second is the responsibility of this government, that the number of people who work declines, that the number of people who are unemployed is increasing, that Serbia's economy is shrinking in problems, that you have no laws or measures, Mr Krstic, which you were supposed to deliver to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to solve the problem. Instead, you provide us with a law that only this government could agree on, apparently there was no agreement on any other issue because they realized that the elections were bad for them because they would have to withdraw serious cuts. In that sense, we will repeat the truth, and about election choices and election results that is a special story. Milosevic had similar results.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30748	Thank you. Please, I'll finish, I won't let you guys finish, Babic ends as far as the replicas are concerned, but there are injuries to the Rules of Procedure, first. I think this is all a kind of obstruction of Parliament's work, we've divorced the subject of one amendment, and now we've been discussing it for an hour. I will no longer allow you this kind of debate. Mr. Milovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30749	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, was injured by members 107 and 109. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Article 107 states that National Assembly session, paragraph 2, is not allowed directly to address the MP to another MP, to use offensive expressions, as well as to present facts and assessments to other persons’ private lives. Article 109 warns to the MP, and now it is the turn if a speaker interrupts or throws, or interferes with the speaker, and otherwise endangers freedom of speech. This throw by counterpart Atlagic, I hope you heard it, it's been going on since the assembly session began. Please warn our colleague not to throw away his colleague Veseinovic and especially not to use offensive expressions, which do not resemble the dignity of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30750	As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I just want to say that I am fully in favour of a decent debate in parliament without being thrown away, but if I were to strictly adhere to the Rules of Procedure, I think that almost half of them would receive notice and tolerance in that regard. I didn't see it, or I didn't hear it say it was offensive. In that sense, there was a throw on both sides. I urge you to act that way. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. We're done with replicas. We're finishing the debate by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30751	I'm gonna have to use this time, and I'm gonna talk a little faster because I have to give a replica to three exhibitions. First, in 2004, when the Insurance Act was passed, what happened in the meantime? You know what the expert public says? The application of the Insurance Act has thus far undergone a number of changes, mostly formal ones, rather than essential ones that would allow the development of the activity of insurance related to other business branches and a fair competition without discrimination from individual participants on the insurance market. Don't go on forever just looking for reasons, just looking for excuses, just some other people are guilty, only you're not the one who rocked this country and ran this country for 12 years. What's our status? Is dictatorship and that horror when you talk about everything we've found in this country? Is it a dictatorship when we found over 26% unemployment? What is the name of Belgrade's debt of over 960m euros? What do we do with that? Smile and head bent? And it should be. Shouldn't we talk about it? Shouldn't we warn the people of Belgrade about what edge and how far you've led them? Is it a dictatorship or is it a dictatorship if you can't talk about it? No, we came out of the dictatorship in 2012, when it was a mental phone book for SNS to appear in any media, and now how many times have you and I been on the same TV? How many times have we faced attitudes? Is that a dictatorship? And I would love to have the same arches for everyone, if they wouldn't allow everything and everything to their MP group, and then to suffer and to turn Mr. Atlagic's head, because he can't listen to nonsense, you're looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Those things can't be compared.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30752	I ask the MPs to reduce tension, debate, to turn to the agenda. (Radoslav Milovanovic, from the place: Replica, was talking to me. You have no right to a replica. By amendment, Mr. Toskovic? The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30753	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as our president of the Parliament Club Mr. Babic said - will not support this amendment, because it is debateable that the DS insists on a deadline to adopt and implement this Insurance Act as soon as possible. I don't understand why they insist for six months. Probably the previous law isn't right. It certainly is, because many insurance houses have failed, let's just say Dunav's insurance. Look what was going on in the Danube Security. Not to talk about other insurance houses. Now the DS insists on shortening that time, so that the tracks will be suppressed, because there is no other problem. I'd like to mention something. When they talk about some of our problems that we face in this government's rule, that's the only reason you gentlemen have ruined this country from the DS in 12 years. Someone with a magic wand can't go back in 20 years. So much for now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30754	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30755	It is a replica, as the previous speaker addressed the MPs of the DS, or DS. Nice to meet you. (Vuceta Toskovic, from the city: We did not ruin the country. I didn't throw it away while you were talking. I'm glad that you think you've made Serbia happy from 1990 to 2000 and that we've come to an orderly country, had power for 12 years, which is far from the truth. So DS wasn't in power for 12 years. I'm glad, if you're convinced, for your calm conscience, if you think you've made Serbia happy in the past year and a half. That's just not true. Every day there's a growing number of poor people. Young people are looking for an opportunity to go abroad. You've placed your party personnel in public enterprises. You're preparing for next year's release of 60,000 people. You're accusing me of mishandling the Danube Security. What's DS got to do with running the Danube Insurance. Discuss this in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You know who took the shot and who ran the Danube Security. Your trusted coalition partner with whom you are now in power in the Republic, in the locale. Is that right? Because of the public, I have to say, we don't feel like these arrows are directed towards the DS. They are aimed, unfortunately, at the current ruling structure that is unable to solve problems in its own coalition. Every day we hear stories from your Bureau meetings, governments that have nothing to do with solving this country's issues.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30756	Mr. Granny? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: He directly mentioned me. He's replicated it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30757	Mr. Chairman, let's get back to the truth. This Serbian government and this majority, whom I am grateful for the courageous political decision, while we are talking about party employment, had the courage to make a moratorium for public sector employment. Seven hundred forty thousand people work in the public sector. Are you saying that the responsibility of this government in a year and a half is greater than your 12-year-old? Who did you hire? Professional or godfatherly, party, friendly, friendly relationship? Who filled that? Who hired these people? This government? This government has had the courage to put on a moratorium, to stop a car that you've been pushing for years and has the courage to announce public sector reform. Between your notice of layoffs next year, and I return again, the citizens of Odjak, or Kostolac, and the Leader didn't believe you. I know it doesn't suit you to listen to all this. I know you don't like the voice of the people, but that's what we're here for, because of the citizens, and we can't frown on the election will and their opinion, and their opinion is dominant. You planned to fire 400,000 people between 2008 and 2012. You've planned to fire 400,000 people. Who is responsible for increasing unemployment from 13% to over 26%? Who's responsible? Which government? Are they then coalition partners again, only that you are not responsible for such a procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30758	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30759	On my amendment, you've allowed the tusks and the darkness of various replicas. This is about six months.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30760	Mr. Mikovic, don't transfer it to me because you've caused everyone, both sides. Please, I won't let you pass it on to me when you're yourself to blame for this condition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30761	I'm sorry, I won't take any more amendments if that's the reason. I said I wouldn't withdraw the amendment even when I could block the assembly procedure because I think it's incorrect. I've rightly left the amendment in the procedure, so it doesn't make this whole law funny. So that's not what we're gonna do. But you assure us today that the six-month deadline is insufficient and that it takes a year to be in force? Is that right? That's been said a million times today. I ask you, on December 15, 2012, on a proposal from the Government which was largely committed by these same coalition partners, the draft law amending the Insurance Act where it was said – extend the deadline from 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2013, what was the reason then? In a year we'll solve the problem, and now, at the end of this calendar year, you say turkey dots don't work, come on another year. So it took a year, and now it takes another year. What have you been doing all year 2013? All the people who were yelling then are enough for a year, now I'm asking you if you've done the job? I'm not asking you what you did in this election or that election, but a specific story, a concrete law. What have you done since 15 December? Go to the National Assembly site and see who was then the Prime Minister, who held the government. The same assembly of the National Assembly. That's when you said a year was enough for us. It's normal that I don't trust you. It won't be enough of what you're yelling at, looking for a new year. Why haven't you been working on law prep for the past year? It would take you six months. Is that right? Adopt my amendment, six months. Hide the shame that nothing has been done in a year or that it has been misjudged. And that's legitimate. We thought he could do it, and now we realize he can't do it, and that's why we need him. That you've given such an answer that you've made a mistake. Here, I'm telling you, it's human sin, divine forgiveness, but admit it. That's the reason. If it's been your argument for a year then, so nothing's done, then we can bid whether it's six months, eight months, nine months, maybe three months, maybe until April 1st... It's a April joke. That's a great April joke. That's the reason for the amendment. Right now, we're talking about this amendment based on what you told us last year that it's going to be enough for a year and it's not enough. Here, by applying the amendment to Article 3 I've made it possible for at least six months to take an extension of time, and you're looking for another year. You'll allow it, I think that's a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30762	We are finishing the debate under this amendment. I don't think it really makes sense anymore. He's losing every sense. At least we're talking about the amendment. I really feel weird when I just realize that everything else is trying to talk, and at least about the amendment, not to use any other word. We're moving on to the next amendment. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30763	I support my colleague Srdjan Milivojevic's amendment, which says in point 2 of the words "31. December 2014 is replaced by the words "30. June 2014’. In my colleague's explanation, the adoption of the amendment will allow for an extension of the deadline until which insurance organisations, which at the date of entry into force of the Insurance Act, carried out their jobs both life insurance and non-life insurance, are obliged to provide evidence of the separation of life insurance and non-life insurance. Extending the deadlines only for the demarcation of life insurance and non-life insurance, respected citizens, and that takes a year? Dear Mr. Krstic, if you had proposed such an amendment to the law in the Government of some European countries, you would have to resign. Half the laws we've passed have to do with the extension of deadlines. You remember the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Act where we gave the directors of public enterprises another year to enter the property. Mr. Krstic, I'm asking you when the insurance system law is expected, what about insurance in the payment of loans, what about insurance in agricultural production, what about insurance companies that have car rentals, for example, that have serious problems? How to protect against the scams of insurance houses? What are you planning on doing with the Danube Insurance? Is it going to privatization as it is said, under what conditions and what will happen to that firm? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30764	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30765	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I wouldn't answer, but I think it's a technical mistake, if my esteemed previous speaker had made a mistake when he said June 31st. The amendment is August 31st. I think he's mixed up two amendments. Jun has 30 days, not 31, and Srdjan Milivojevic's amendment stands on 31 August 2014. Just enough to explain this correction to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30766	Thank you. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30767	If you will not accept my amendment to set the deadline with 30 June 2014, I believe that this amendment is absolutely correct. Namely, if you don't want to finish your job by the summer, then finish your job during September of 2014 because it is required that by 31 September 2014. True, it would mean an extraordinary session of the Assembly unless the work was completed by then, during September, but before the beginning of the regular session. In any case, after the end of the season of annual holidays, full force and elan, when nothing has already been done throughout 2013, when nothing will already be done for the first six months, as I have suggested, then at least during September 2014 let the job be done and be adopted either by law or otherwise to regulate this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30768	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30769	I thank you for accepting my amendment and correcting your mistake. The fact is that there was no amendment, there would be no extension of six months, no eight months, no nine months, no year. On 1 January 2014, all insurance companies which did not do so, which failed to comply with their obligations under the Insurance Act in the sense of separation of life insurance and non-life insurance, would be in a hurry. It would be absolutely groundless and probably both domestic and foreign insurance houses would be in a very difficult situation. By adopting this amendment, it is possible to significantly improve the position of all insurance houses in our country and practically by doing so, whether you accept good and correct amendments in terms of setting the deadline for six months, eight months or nine months, we have practically corrected something of this, so that no law that is inapplicable and completely unthinkable comes out. I have a special pleasure that, in any case, in this calendar year, and perhaps in the overall assembly of this National Assembly, this is the last amendment adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30770	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30771	I thank my colleague Mikovic for his modesty, because he thanks the government for accepting the amendment, so that the law would make any sense at all. I guess the government should thank him, and the MPs of the ruling coalition, for not sitting here for two days without any serious reason. Because this law you put into procedure would be pointless because its entry into force would be after New Year's Eve, three days after New Year's Eve. The previous member would be valid in full sense and all insurance organisations would be at a later stage. So none of the members of the government, nor the minister, nor his assistants, nor the first associates, nor the other associates, noticed that you would have a problem with the application of this law. None of the ruling coalition's MPs noticed that in one conference, which contains two proposals, one law and another interpretation of the law, you would pass a law that would make no sense. If it wasn't for Mr. Mikovic, that's exactly what would have happened. And now you're amazed at this fact. You're surprised, but this is a paradigm for your work. Unfortunately, this is a paradigm. Imagine the budget. Imagine a budget of over 1,000 pages, how detailed did you study it, when three members couldn't see, the consequences of those three members? Imagine how many gaps were in the budget that, as we said, had experienced its rebalancing unseen in the history of parliamentaryism, because you delivered amendments that practically represent the rebalancing of your own budget when you adopted the budget itself? This is one proof of the work of this government, the work of the ruling coalition, the good symbolic basis for the fact that this is probably the last law we adopt, the proof of what laws you adopt, how you put them in the process, how much you discussed them, how much you considered certain provisions. On behalf of the DS Parliament Club, I thank Mr Mikovic for helping this government not to pass another senseless law, and I hope you will give such gratitude to Mr Mikovic and include him in the future, when you and if you put laws in the process, to look at them a little bit, not to make such serious mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30772	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30773	Thank you very much. Just to be clear, if Mr. Mikovic hadn't submitted the amendment, it would have been submitted by the government and nothing would have been different. The government would submit it when it was voted in the government on 18 December eight days from the date of the vote in the Assembly and depended on when it will be voted in the Assembly, on the journals of the Assembly's work, which is the National Assembly's intelligence. When it's scheduled for now, or when it's scheduled, of course we can change the technical matter by amendment and we would. We are out of political correctness, which I see is abused here, we simply accept the DS amendment, we would accept any other parties, and we didn't feel the need to put such an amendment as the Government and cover it, but unfortunately, it's, as you can see, abused. I won't accept qualifications, although you know perfectly well that I'm a finance minister for less than four months, that the ministry didn't do its job. In particular, the sector that is responsible for insurance and insurance issues, during this period while waiting for the new insurance roof law to be proposed in the first half of the following year, the same sector was responsible for the recovery of these three banks, which was the case in 2013, when you asked the question of what the sector was dealing with. The National Bank of Serbia, Agrobank, Vojvodina Development Bank, Business Bank of Belgrade, was also involved in this. So we've been dealing with, or the Ministry, these last four months of doing it, and we haven't sat down. And also, to be clear, there's a rumor that there's no plan, there's no problem, there's no plan to solve the insurance problem. This Insurance Act has been in force since 2004. In the meantime, some things have changed, also in the European legislation, which was one of the reasons why the law was passed as it was passed, with this deadline that has been moved over the last nine years, not nine months, or seven days for which God created the planet, as you said. For the first time, the Insurance Act was put into public debate by the National Bank of Serbia, it was held in public debate, it is available on the National Bank of Serbia website. It will go to another public debate, so that we can all plan together how to address the issue of insurance, i.e. insurance organisation, and in light of the change that has taken place, as regards the regulation of the European Union, whether it is best to separate legal persons or to put a Chinese wall within existing legal entities. It is simply unfounded, such as an unfounded call for some precedent, i.e. hiding, i.e. not presenting to the people the budget and amendments to the budget and some discussions at three in the morning. We discussed the budget for two weeks. The measures were presented in October, and I think it's unprecedented. It's about giving a longer time than six months. We give a year because it makes sense. One way or another with the new roof law that I said would enter the procedure in the first six months of the following year, there will be no need for that specific deadline. Let's just put things on the clear and put them where they're at the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30774	Excuse me, on what grounds do you want the word? (Srdjan Mikovic, from the post: By amendment. There are more reported. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30775	Thank you. Very short. For the truth, Minister Krstic, the draft budget was discussed for four days. One day was crucial when a Member of the 6th budget was discussed. You know he had budget positions in him, and we sat there, that night, that article 6 was debated about half the night, and that part of the debate that went from six to ten hours was replayed from 12 o'clock to three or four o'clock in the morning, right? So the transparency wasn't fully applied. Whether it was accidental or deliberate, we could give different attitudes about it. On the other hand, Minister, you say the Insurance Act is in the public hearing procedure. That's good. But perhaps it would be good, Minister, to answer what happened to the Labour Act? Is he in public debate or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30776	Mr. Veselinović, please, this is a real abuse of the Rules of Procedure. The questions will be to the government today. Here's what you set up for the government. Don't spread the subject. You've opened the budget as a topic, you've now opened the Labour Act. Please, don't, it really doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30777	I won't, Chairman, I won't put you in an awkward position, or position to apply the sanctions measures. What are we doing this for? Because when it comes to government, we simply don't have a chance to ask a question. You'll see. We'll be witnessing tonight what issues will look like to the government. The government will talk, and we'll be here to listen. But let's see if something changes tonight.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30778	Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure have brought you and I the way we are. Therefore, we must respect him. You have a chance and a written question. According to the amendment, the word is Zoran Babic. Just to make the schedule known: Zoran Babic, Marijan Risticevic and Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30779	I thank Mr. Krstic for really explaining on the first hand all the reasons why all amendments and additions to the Insurance Act are being made. I will be pleased to take part in the adoption and vote of laws that go through a complete democratic procedure, public debates, public hearings, listening to what the professional public will say, and not over the knee, as more than 90% of all laws in the previous session were passed, carried out by an emergency procedure somewhere behind closed doors and that it corresponds to individuals or groups of interest in this country and therefore our society was located at the level at which it is located. I'm sorry there's been some issues here that have nothing to do with insurance, or the Insurance Act. But as a man who had been present for four years in his previous assembly... (President: Mr. Granny, you have a word for the amendment. )......................................................................................................... Just one sentence and I'm done. I cannot go beyond the fact that someone whose party as the most important party in the previous government has passed and adopted the budget in five to 12 every 30 December, disrespecting the law, disrespecting the Constitution, agreeing that some parliamentary groups withdraw the force of the amendment in order to enter into temporary financing, now respects why Mr Krstic and the Government put forward a draft budget last year... (Chairman: Mr. Granny, wrap it up. )......................................................................................................... and this year respecting the legal procedure, which means November 15th when... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30780	Mr. Granny, I turned the microphone off a long time ago. The word is made by MP Marijan Rističević after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30781	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the committee has accepted this amendment, the government has accepted this amendment. The vote as far as I know it won't be, but I still want to thank Mr. Mikovic for proposing this amendment. I am proof that the amendment was adopted proves our democracy. We've adopted more Mr. Mikovic's amendments. As I recall, we passed a whole law of Mr. Mikovic, and we're on this side...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30782	I also ask you, Mr. Risticevic, to return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30783	I'm talking about the amendment. Thank you for the amendment. But the fact that we don't adopt the amendment doesn't stand. We are adopting even whole laws, so that more than half of his parliamentary group has not voted in favour of his law at all, and this shows the degree of democracy on this side. I want it preserved in the next year and the next years and in the next councils no matter how long they last. As far as the amendment is concerned, I am sorry that no amendment has been submitted on agriculture, i.e. that it is incorporated in the future law and I insist on it. I think everyone in this room wants that. When we can secure bank deposits...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30784	I can't tolerate it anymore. I'm two hours intolerant.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30785	Hold on. I guess there's something I can say about peasants. (President: Just spread the subject. ) As a representative of the People's Peasants' Party, I would like to thank the government for accepting this amendment and I hope that in future they will accept that agricultural crops are provided for by the State's cost. When we can secure bank deposits and bank minuses, I guess we can also provide agricultural crops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30786	The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30787	Mr. Baptizer, please don't be deceived. After the start of the principle debate in the National Assembly, the Government cannot submit an amendment. Not even an MP can submit an amendment. Only the board can submit an amendment. So, in that sense, when they tell you that the government can, it can't. already on the 23rd when the principle debate began is a "made line".
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30788	Are you talking about the replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30789	Yeah, yeah, yeah, about all this. (President: Then don't. )......................................................................................................... It's not the replica, it's about the amendment. That's why I think this was a way to correct a mistake that the government failed to fix by 23rd. Maybe the government would suggest something like that to the board, but that's if it were. In any case, I'll teach you if any of your associates gave you an instruction, after the principle debate has begun, only the board can propose an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30790	Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have completed a review of the bill's proposal in principle and detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear People's MPs, I am now determining a break in work and we will continue at 16 hours when members of the RS government will answer parliamentary questions in accordance with Article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. At the same time, and according to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue its work after 19 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30791	Dear People's MPs, since today is the last Thursday of the month, in accordance with Article 205(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we approach the question of MPs. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Serbia informed the National Assembly that the next members of the government would be prevented from attending today's session asking parliamentary questions: Jovan Krkobibic – Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Nikola Selakovic – Minister of Justice and State Administration Dragan Glamočić – Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Aleksandar Vulin – Minister without portfolio and Ivan Mrkic – Foreign Minister. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, let me remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked. The MP has the right to ask a parliamentary question to a single minister or government under their jurisdiction. The parliamentary question must be clearly formulated. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. The President of the Assembly shall warn the MP who asks the question, if the question is not asked in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, or if it is not addressed to the competent authority. The government, or minister, must answer the oral question immediately. If a specific preparation is required to respond, they shall immediately explain this to the MP and deliver the reply in writing within eight days of the date on which the question is asked. If, in the preparation of the response to the parliamentary question, certain facts, whose determination requires a longer or more complex analysis, may be extended to a maximum of 30 days. The competent minister shall address the National Assembly for a maximum period of five minutes to answer the question. Following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his response for a maximum of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be applied accordingly, by not allowing replicas and references to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I would remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, by giving a change of word first to Members of Parliament who do not belong to any parliamentary group, and then MPs from the least to the largest parliamentary group. We're moving on to asking questions. The first to be reported is MP Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30792	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Prime Minister, and as regards the start of talks between the Albanian representatives with the government, first with the first Deputy Prime Minister in July, then with the president himself in October. I ask the question because of events that took place in the meantime and because of a discriminatory decision that abolished the Municipal Court in Presevo, which was fifty years old, as well as the public prosecutor's office, Bujanovac was left without the Court of Justice and the Public Prosecutor's Office, and Medvedja without a judicial unit. In conditions where Albanians have been totally neglected and since the time of reform, instead of municipal courts, Presevo, Bujanovac has remained with judicial units, and such poor representation has been drastically worsened. Currently, there are only three judges of 58 judges working there at the Vranj First Instance, which is about 5%, and Albanians in the judicial area account for 25% of the population. In the Vranj High Court, there is absolutely no Albanian judge, no employee, no translator, not to mention other court cases. Such a degradation of the municipality, with 90 per cent of Albanians, closes all possibilities to solve this problem, especially as we know that in the last three years, when everything went to Vranje, no Albanian intern was admitted, and when we know that the National Council of Albanians has 30% less funding for the whole year. Here, the justice minister officially said that even during the construction of the judicial network, only 5,800 Albanians in Serbia were accounted for, with official data, that there are only 416 Albanians in Presevo, that the total population, of those 35,000 in 2002, is now being treated by the state in a municipality of only 3,000 people. Now the question is, what's the point of further conversations, if we're counting on these codes? Then where is economic development, when the funds are reduced, not only to the National Council, but also to municipalities? Where's the integration... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... If we've made a decision here that there's no admission to state and public institutions? How will we implement the integration of Albanians? How are we going to solve a catastrophic economic situation with 80% unemployment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30793	You'll have three more minutes, you have the right to an additional question, these three minutes are up. Prime Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30794	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, since the minister of justice is not present here today, I would most certainly say that the Serbian government adopted and accepted a plan agreed with representatives of Albanian political parties and local authorities in southern Serbia and that we will continue to work on this plan. In that sense, we will continue the talks. It is necessary to look for solutions for the integration of the Albanian national minority into the institutions of Serbia, and that includes all that you have talked about and the issue is police, justice, other state bodies, etc. Please, if you have more specific questions, submit it to the Ministry of Justice in writing, and I, as Prime Minister and First Vice-President of the Government, Mr. Vukic, have spoken with you and we will continue these talks, of course with the coordination of team heads for three municipalities, co-ordinated with Mr. Zoran Stankovic, so that these talks will certainly be continued. The problem arises when these last laws are passed which have been assessed differently. I hope there is enough space to talk about all the topics that are set in the points that we unanimously adopted at the cabinet session, which you yourself have identified.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30795	MP Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30796	In November of last year, I explained to the minister of justice the whole situation in a memo. Then, several times in the Assembly, I pointed out the difficult situation in this area in the judiciary, when it comes to Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, and in the talks that we had on October 10th, we also raised that issue with you. What was the score? That only two days before the vote here in the Assembly was formally hired by the secretary of state to speak to the representatives of Albanians, to convince them that what the government provides is enough and that they should be satisfied that their judicial institutions they have had for decades, in such a catastrophic state that exists on the ground, with a huge problem of the lack of involvement of Albanians in judicial institutions. If this is logical in the following topics, that only at these meetings are you trying to convince Albanians that they have all the rights under the Constitution, by law, according to international conventions, the only problem is that Albanians have so far refused to exercise those rights, which is not yet true, and that this is just the skill of persuasion, how Albanians fit into this state system. I'm telling you, the Albanians were involved, they were involved. In the municipal court, there were four Albanian judges, 20 and a few years ago. It is, meanwhile, 20 years ago, three years at this time creating this discriminatory situation. Now I'm asking a question. Talks have begun and it was an important thing, but if they come down to the government's skill to convince Albanians that what they have can no longer happen in this country and that their situation is catastrophic, where is the problem with asylum seekers? It's easy to say they're fake asylum seekers. What's the state doing to stop these asylum seekers? Why must they seek solutions throughout Europe, even in Kosovo? There, a number of young people were able to get a job, and they can't do it in their own country. Instead of solving the problem with them, the state is now making them legally invisible. They're left without documents. I'm not getting any answers here to the question -- why should our citizens, who needed to be provided terms of return, now become legally invisible, remain without personal documents? These are serious things we need to talk seriously about, not in the way you've done about the judiciary, send in the Secretary of State. What could he do? To be a magician, to convince Albanian representatives that what the state provides is enough and that they have no chance of achieving anything else in this country and realising it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30797	Thank you. Do any of the members of the government want to give an answer? The word has the People's Messenger, Zechariah Trnavčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30798	Mr. President, it's been 16 months since you signed the Order on the establishment of the National Agrarian Council. During that time, you did not show any interest in hearing what the council was doing, whether it did the job it was founded for and informing yourself that two members, one of them from the Progressive Party, Danilo Golubovic and other Zivanko Radovanchev, had sabotaged the work of this council and boycotted because they had not come to a single session. We did this job – strategy. I've been trying, Mr. Dacic, since November of the month to regularly reach you and to present this draft strategy with representatives of the National Agrarian Council by 2037, but I haven't received any answer. I'm curious, Mr. Dacic, are you even interested in the agricultural development strategy? From what we have all witnessed in recent months, it is clear that the government has not yet had the issue of agrarians, which is in one desperate state, and we are at an early stage in the World Trade Organisation, without a cooperative movement and with reduced investment in this economic area. For Mr. Alexander Wolf, I have the next question. In early September, you gave the order to Bratislav Gasic, a famous tennis player from Rasin County, to take over the Tennis Union of Serbia, with a promise that he would resolve their bad finances. Then he was also given a warrant to enter the Water polo alliance Mr. Zvonko Babic, a well-known waterpolitan...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30799	Mr. Trnavevich, I apologize, you will have the opportunity to finish, but you know that you can only ask questions from the work of a member of the government. That's what the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30800	Excuse me, please. Mr. Vukic ordered these people to come and advance Water polo and the Tennis Union, and then called it off. My friends, the citizens asked me to ask Mr. Vukic -- when he made a mistake, when he delegated these two prominent athletes to these alliances, or when he gave the order three or four weeks ago to leave these alliances? I have a question, but Mr. Antic is gone, about the construction of the road from Barry to Oruglica. It's a road that would open up the possibility of high production developing up there and starting a re-colonization, the habitation of this wasteland. It also refers to the road from Prolom Banja over Radan Mountain to Bojnik, which also has a nice economic significance. The other day, I was in the Attar of the village of Maloštište, through the woods, where there are deposits that people there are trying to disembark and light, that instead of the pheasant and the wild pigs there are beautiful fruit plantations. However, Mr. Antic is not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30801	Time, Mr. Trnavci.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30802	Let me just say this one more time, Mr. President. I wouldn't use this opportunity for existing communications with the prime minister and other ministers to work here, but that's not there. That's why I'm using this last Thursday.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30803	The President of the Government has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30804	Since there is a agricultural council in this area, there is also a competent ministry dealing with this problem, the Agrarian Council has prepared a strategy, and the Ministry of Agriculture in the last meeting has had its own versions of these materials, and I hope they will now sit together to look at what is best from all these documents and try to benefit from some work in which they have all invested. You know when it comes to experts that there are always different opinions and that it's very difficult for us now to arbitration in all of this, who's right about some of the professional things. As far as we're concerned, those of us who run the work of the government will certainly be our intensity and goal to make all the positive things that exist in the work of any working group, and there were several in the last period, to take advantage of what is best, because agriculture is really our capital branch. It's just these weeks and months that Mr. Vukic and I have been talking to our partners, the big partners from Russia. Right now in these moments we are reading some materials from China, because decisions have been made that Serbia can place many of the things it produces in the area of agriculture on the Russian and Chinese markets. Serbia will be the first country China will sign a protocol on how to approve meat exports, but now it is our business to organise and even have products for such a thing. It's a great developmental opportunity for our agriculture, given the size of the market, not to mention how many hundreds of millions of people it is. We should take advantage of these friendly relations that we have with them, and we are aware that we already have some quotas, which we have already had when it comes to the EU, we are even in a situation that we cannot use because we do not have enough products. In any case, our goal must be to work planically. That's why this problem needs to be approached very responsibly. Even though some may think that this invisible arm of the market should now run all the areas, in this case right now, if the state doesn't intervene to help organise all of this, believe me, nothing will be organized. These are huge markets, which require large production. That production must also be planned. Farmers need to know, not only farmers, but God forbid we have an industry that deals with the processing of agricultural products in the next period. Unfortunately, at this point, we are not able to take advantage of all the benefits that are now providing us with these friendly connections with certain countries, so I think it's a shame not to take advantage of all the ideas we have rightly. In particular, it is a shame that various planning documents and strategies have different opinions, disputes, conflicts within these expert groups dealing with these issues. We'll talk to the Minister of Agriculture, see if we can get whatever's best out of those papers. When it comes to this third question, since Mr. Vukic is here, he will answer this question, although the question has nothing to do with the government's work and it is primarily politicised and provocative, of course. On this third question, I'm really not in the way, about what you asked for, about the road. I suggest that it be delivered in writing to the Minister of Traffic, to give you an official answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30805	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30806	I'm going to try to answer in the most serious and most responsible way what I'm asked as a question, although I don't think that's the only question in that tone and that's the way it is. Namely, I didn't give any warrants to anyone. It may seem strange to you, there were gentlemen in those places from the party you belonged to yesterday. I don't remember you asking such a question in the National Assembly, not for Vuk Jeremic, not for Dragan Gilas, not for many others, and I didn't notice they were big tennis players or basketball players. As far as my orders are concerned, Bratislava Gasic has never been president of the tennis union of Serbia, he never became one. Maybe he wanted to, I can't talk about it, but he never became one. At the same time, as far as the decisions we made at the presidency are concerned, and on my suggestion, it's our desire for athletes to be in sports as much as possible, for good managers to be in sports and not politicians, because we think it should be past the time in which the sports finances were decided by some authorities. On the other hand, I'm unlike those who are sinless countless times admitted that I was wrong and that's not my problem. In this case, I had nothing to do wrong. In some other cases, I did when we weren't giving orders, but when some of our people at the bar were making coalitions, we said, it's okay. After that, it turned out that our people were first of all not doing a good job, did not produce good results for these cities and municipalities, and we said – get out of power. I'm sorry, it's the only case in Serbian modern history that some political party in that area has so requested from its party, from its people in the bar to behave accordingly. It's not our goal to take office, it's not our goal to attack the chairs. We aim to do something in Serbia and do something for our people. That's how we acted, that's how we behave. Is everything in Serbia going to be condemned, whether this kind of hate policy that I see every day, in which I'm first of all guilty and when I have nothing to do with anything, and today I'm neither guilty nor obliged to go into some kind of relationship within B 92, with which I absolutely have nothing to do with it, so tomorrow I'm going to have to explain some other topics, the day after that, because it's probably the easiest thing for everyone in Serbia to blame for all of Alexander Vukic or SNS. I have to tell you, I don't have a problem with that either, except that this kind of atmosphere didn't do anybody any good. The right to tell you, it's very hard, very hard to work in such an atmosphere of intrigue, lies, nonsense, but we're always ready for all those who think that power doesn't have legitimacy, to think that we're not doing well enough, to replace us, to show that they can do better. For that to happen, there is only one small condition. Before that, they have to get more trust and nothing more. I think the people are the Supreme Judge for all of us and you can't fool the people by letting the day before Miskovic's trial tell the story that the President of the Court has been removed because of the pressure on the court, and that man was never the President of the Court. He was never the President of the Court. And that man is still in charge of this procedure. And that you have to explain it today. And that every lie and nonsense must be denied countless times, so that someone may hear in that terrible cacophony any true word of it all. But whatever it is, I think our people, our people, feel great about who's up for what, who's fighting for what they're fighting for, and they'll always bring the best possible judgment, the best possible assessment of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30807	Mr. Trnavcevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30808	Mr. Dacic, I'm not happy with your answer. You know that you were disaved, by Serbian Prime Minister Danilo Golubovic, whom I did not propose when I proposed to the National Agricultural Council members, but entered as a man of the strong political party SNS, nor for Zivanko Radovanchev. They, I repeat, sabotaged the work of this council. Minister Goran Knezevic, who was replaced, allowed a working group to be formed. I said it was not a political issue, but a business question to do a strategy. You were supposed to order the ministry to give up that group they formed to write their own strategy and work this document with us here. I'm afraid that didn't happen. As for Mr. Vucica, here and a small country in this Serbia, they know that you are the main inspirer, the main taskmaster for all, and for the appointment and entry of Bratislava Gasic into the Tennis Alliance. How do you say he didn't come in when you called him off? How can you tell Zoran Babic that, say, maybe he didn't come in when he was called off. When did you get rid of him, I ask? And this, Mr. Vukic, to Mr. Dacic, to hand over because there is no other way (the MP of Zechariah Trnavčević attaches paper).
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30809	Mr. Wolfie has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30810	I must ask you one more time not to be false, Mr. Gasic has never entered the Tennis Federation. (Zahari Trnavčević, from the place: And what have you called him off?) How am I supposed to call off a man who didn't even get in anywhere? (Zahari Trnavcevic, from the place: Well, that's the question? So this is the essence of what I was talking about earlier. So Mr. Trnavcevic said so that is the question. Now I'm asking how I could call off someone who didn't even get in. And now you have to explain it to the citizens of Serbia for a much more serious matter. You wouldn't believe Mr. Trnavcevic, I'm dealing with much more important problems than a tennis alliance that I respect a lot, than the Football Federation, the basketball alliance and all other alliances. I've got a lot of work to do, I don't think I'm a lazy man, but at that time, I certainly don't have time to think about such things, let alone solve them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30811	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30812	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, I would like to ask Mr. Dacic first of all, although perhaps some other members of the government can answer. The issue of what is for us in Vojvodina is probably the most controversial privatisation, which is not on the EU list, 24 is listed there, and this is 25, and I think it is the farthest one, as regards the privatisation of NIS. None, or none, but most of the parties that make up the government today did not participate in this famous arrangement, and it was then announced as a business of the century. It's kind of not privatisation, because the company that took over NIS is not private, it's state-owned. That is, more to say, the "gaspromisation" of NIS and that was the job of the century, but for the Russian partner not for the state of Serbia. I think that Serbian citizens should get some answers about this transaction, especially since we have a case to say, in neighbouring Croatia, it has been questioned how the oil industry was privatised and we have witnessed that some countries are trying to deal with the situation in the sense that transparency and the very way that the legal work itself has come into question. In the case of NIS, 51% was sold, as was the oil warehouse, or Banatski Dvor gas, but what is likely to be the number one issue in this case, who correctly calculated that Serbia's oil industry is worth 400m euros, not a billion and a hundred, or two billion, as some estimates were. In any case, your commitment to some special interests stands in the way of respect, but to sell not only the oil industry, but also the reserves of oil and gas that have been estimated at nine billion dollars, or seven billion euros for the price of 400 million, and we know that "Maxie" discount has been sold for a billion, or market position, ie. Monopoly, are what was sold along with those oil springs. I think that Serbian citizens would have to get some answers as to how this happened and based on what mathematics it was calculated that complete reserves of oil and gas, including refineries and 200 gas stations etc., the list of facilities is still recorded today, 40 different government decisions have been made to transfer property to NIS, i.e. There was no idea what was being sold, how there was a 400 million figure. That would be my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30813	Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30814	Thanks for the question you asked, I want to answer it the following way. We have been dealing with a number of cases this year, but above all, the focus has been on 24 controversial cases that Mrs Verica Barac insisted, and then in her official requests the EU has repeated, but much more important than the EU and of each of us is the fact that we have shown that we were ready to deal with large and important cases which had and not small political connotations with us, so I want to inform you that by Sunday, therefore, it will be complete work on those 24 cases. The prosecution will remain that four more cases, otherwise, as far as the investigation process is concerned, will all be fully completed, so in some cases an indictment or indictment has been brought, in some cases there were no grounds and we will make everything clear. I want to directly answer this question of yours – we have never had a dispute in any way, except political dispute, the legal challenge of such privatisation was done by authorized houses, by the way, assessments, measures, lynch, but I do not want to justify or condemn anything in this process, nor have I participated, except for the data that I have today, I am more about the process itself, the creation of a contract or anything else. I want to point out to you another thing where Serbs need me, or Serbian citizens, I apologize, to take a good hold of our heads and ask ourselves what kind of problem we've made ourselves? How is it possible that before we entered the privatisation of NIS, our NIS had annual losses believed or not, as an absolute monopoly enterprise? Can you believe that last year we had a loss in "Lutrija Srbija", which is impossible, so people need to know that the premiums stand out from 50% of what people pay? That it has to be a profit, however much, but it has to be a profit. We managed to make a loss of 1,600,000 euros. Ask me how, I still don't understand just reading papers, reading balances, and I know how to read both activity and passive and final balances. That's my question for NIS. I'll tell you exactly, they exploited our oil. I'll tell you they did this and that. That's why it's such a big profit, but I'm going to ask you how it's possible that we've made a minus with NIS and who's responsible for it? It's nobody again. I doubt that there is only political responsibility, I'm sure there are other responsibilities, but unfortunately you can't do everything. Many times not wanting to say anything bad about anyone, we all have a problem and all of our political parties. We're in some kind of sacrifice of political conflicts all the time, constantly making a bad atmosphere around all the authorities and the opposition, around everyone, and we never ask ourselves, let's sit down a little bit more to do. Let's try to do something and evaluate our results to worse. Well, that's not what the Russians are to blame for. It's not the Russians' fault, it's our fault. Just like these other things aren't our fault Americans, Germans or I don't know who, so it's our fault. Our incompetence, our unhappiness, our impeccableness, our inadequacy, and if any, any legal requirements for reviewing that privatisation, no problem. State authorities are always available to anyone who wants to check any allegations. So I think we have a problem today, we have an undeniable problem today, and it's not a question of SNS, SPS or I don't know who. We have an undeniable problem with the debt "Srbigas". This is what we have, not only because of this or the likes of the people in "Srbigas", but because we've always subsidized gas, reduced the price, always bought social peace, we've done it through heat, through phone bills, and that's why today your phone subscription is 430 dinars, three times cheaper than the cheapest in the region, and so it's all ours. Because we never wanted to build a real economy, but we always bought time to some new choices, to protect our own political power. I'm just asking you to understand the position we're in, and I'm prepared, if you're interested in each case, here individually from this 24 to expose to you everything we've come to, and that's what the cops and prosecutors are going to be able to explain on Saturday, all very closely, even though I want to say right now that the Anti-Corruption Council that we've received, in two cases has expressed dissatisfaction and they're right, because some other aspects have been explored and trained, and not the ones they pointed to, and that will be, given to the police, and it's expected to be completed in a short period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30815	The word is Mr. Gjorge Stojsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30816	Thank you for your response. Your answer brings us to another question, which is the height of the mining rent, because we have most pointed out on several occasions that it is one of the ways to supplement the budget, given that we are in a serious financial crisis and there is really no reason why it is the lowest in Europe, in Albania is 12%, 10% in Slovenia, and in that same Russia is far more and in most countries it is progressive. The speed used to exploit domestic oil reserves, NIS is now profitable, but the biggest shame is that while it was in our country's hands, it worked with loss, but one reason is precisely the amount of oil from domestic sources which is now quantified twice as much as what was exploited once. I think the Russian partner's mathematics is clear, and as long as the mining rent is 3% or 10, or 15, the difference is about 30 million euros a year, that they will seek to draw up domestic reserves as quickly as possible and that is economic logic, which is made possible by agreement. What would be good, I think that energy security and stability should be one of the priorities, not this government, any government, and it's good to move towards creating a stock reserve and at least have domestic oil reserves in some way. I don't know if, or not, any formal request has gone to the Russian partner to revise the agreement or at least try to make some kind of change, but maybe it's one of the directions in which to think. We are witnessing that the Russian state is using its energy influence on many countries to implement some kind of political agenda, but I hope that Serbia will never get into this situation. I think that we have plotted our European path and that we have moved far away, although according to some Russian officials, we realize that they are not very glad that we are going that way either. In any case, it may be thinking for the entire government, but some coherent activity of several ministries I hope will lead to a unique goal, which is that there is no need for foreign countries to pay for something that is located in domestic oil and gas sources and that someone else is making extra profits where, because of one choice, someone has sold the future of generations of children who could live and school from such resources. Thirty million euros a year, I tell you, in 2038, I think it's an agreement, it's almost a billion euros for the next 25 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30817	The word is Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30818	Your bill's pretty accurate. Between 30 and 40 million. Closer to 40 than 30 million. As you can see, no one is hiding anything from us. Now I'm going to try to give a political answer and what's really been going on. There have been countless attempts of ours, countless attempts to talk, but our Russian partners have always referred to if I am not mistaken for Article 12, Article 13, I apologize to the Interstate Agreement between Serbia and Russia. I was not involved in the assembly of the Interstate Agreement. They made it clear to us that if we were to change the amount of the mining rent, which could have been done before, it would not have been good for our bilateral relations. I ask you myself – do you think we are different from other forces? I'll tell you, it's not. You want me to tell you that there are few people, and it's good to always judge normal people and serious politicians always assess the strength of countries and international circumstances and everything else, but it's reasonable that they always work for their country, for their Serbia. I'm afraid you'd be surprised if you noticed how many politicians think they're going to bring some to power, some to take down power, one or one of the forces, and eventually forget that Serbian citizens are the ones who make the decision. We didn't have that power to change the height of the mining rent. Are you asking me if it would be good if it was a higher ore rent? I'm telling you, it'd be good. Now I'm telling you something heresy, it'd be good, we didn't make it. We didn't have that power, like they had even less power before us when they negotiated it. I hope that some next generation when Serbia is stronger, economically stronger, will have that kind of strength, and that it will have that kind of power to maintain excellent relations with Russia and that Serbia will be an EU member. So, I hope we have that kind of strength. Now let me tell you about other political matters. You want me to tell you that I have made a 10-time request to individual Western embassies – give us the footage that we're going to capture all the culprits for what you're looking for. You know we didn't get those tapes. There's no footage. So what do we do now? To go hunting political opponents because someone thinks it would be good without proof? I don't want to be a part of it, because our jobs aren't and we'll never satisfy foreign countries, ever, because we're small, they're big. Our job is how much we can always protect Serbia's interests, always protect and protect Serbia's interests. I think the agreement with the Russians has brought more benefits than the damage to Serbia anyway. Could it have been better? It could have, like a lot of other agreements we've made, but things are never black and we can't look at them for and against, and it would be easiest for me to criticize those who took part in making that agreement sitting in front of me, and on my left. I can't do that because one who deals with state affairs and state policy knows how hard and sometimes, not decisions that are popular and which easily the people can recognize as good you have to make. On the daily level, you have to bring 10. Do you think it's popular today that all the unions have refused or that the entire Telecom today is puzzling that it's this or that minister or vice-president of the government that they didn't get 30% of the thirteenth salary? Calculate what's in the money - five million euros. We talked about 30m euros only to save the state fivem euros, not to talk about other things. Is it popular? Well, it's not popular. Because these people will find you guilty of something like that, but you have to make those decisions on a daily basis. So these people had to make that decision at the time, and they didn't talk to the same one, and whoever tells you to talk to the same person when talking to the great world powers doesn't tell you the truth. To talk to us, we always try to guard and keep to the dignity of Serbia, to the pride of our citizens, to the sovereignty of our country, but it is not an easy conversation of equal. When we talk about Serbia's entry into the EU, you don't tell people that only those who are our biggest friends and who haven't recognised Kosovo are asking themselves, first of all, Germany, England, France, Italy, Spain. I added Spain as the fifth, so these countries all recognised Kosovo's independence. You need to talk, you need to take care of your country and your country's interests. I just want to tell you that I don't want to condemn anyone for it, even though it might be easy and if political points were to be built on it, people have to understand that reality in Serbia's political life and in relation to individual forces is very different from what it looks like to us when we read our newspaper and watch our television channels. I'm sorry and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30819	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30820	Thank you. Dear President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I have a few questions for Mrs. Mihajlovic. Instead of buying directly from the producer, Russia's Gazprom, Serbia naturally imports all its gas from over two intermediate companies, the first well-known "Yugorosgas" and the second later mediator, so-called "Yugorosgas". ‘RST’, or ‘Russian-Serbian trading’ of the corporation. Namely, it was you who spoke about the existence of the Russian-Serbian trading firm in the transport of gas, which brings, or contributes to, the bad business results of "Srbigas". My question is, if so, why not break a contract with such an intermediate firm, and rather than taking into account the fact that the administrative-fiscal council was the one who pointed out and warned that the success of fiscal consolidation depends exactly on what will happen to "Srbigas". Russia is Ukraine, I'm sure you already know better than I do, lower the price of gas by a third, from $400 to $268 per 1,000 cc's of gas. If we've already put "NIS" below any market price, and the fact is that it is done, and what's real, reality is also with the energy agreement when it's finished with Russia, it's the least it had to do with energy, and it had a lot more to do with something else. And when a late agreement is concluded in a state of gas, it cannot be any other way, and according to my personal conviction, it is a serious crime that has been committed and cannot be qualified as abuse of the official position of top state officials, but rather something that was once called, and some MPs like to mention it here in the Assembly lately – high treason; and thus we are actually a country in a region that has a minority stake in a company that builds South Stream Serbia, so in South Stream Serbia, I'm curious as to why, like Ukraine, Serbia wouldn't get a lower price of gas? Instead, we also had the opportunity to hear from the director of "Srbigas" that Serbia was actually forgiven for the amount of gas that Serbia did not withdraw and does this mean that we are actually dependent only on the goodwill of Russia's "Gasprom". Also, my next question is also addressed to you, yes, the media has been writing all summer about how citizens, like all witnesses, were able to track and read, arrive at a few electricity bills, you personally were the ones who went to the EPS counters, who appealed to the EPS to solve this problem and my next question is, why exactly EPS, why did it actually take so long, almost half a year to change these completely incomprehensible bills for spent electricity? Now you're saying a new proposal has arrived. Well, if he's here, you're saying that he has to do the same. My question is, exactly what exactly did you mean when you said this proposal had to be done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30821	Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30822	Thank you for your questions. Let's start from the beginning, about the brokerage companies. When we talk about the "Yugoros-gas" company, to remind you, last year Serbia signed a long-term gas supply contract, or "Serbiagas" is doing it via "Yugoros-gas" and "Yugoros-gas" is getting it from "Gasprom Export". The long-term contract already agreed in the previous government was not possible to make any changes in this regard when we talk about "Yugoros-gas". If we talk about another brokerage company, the government has made a decision, these are business-technical co-operation contracts, that no such contract can be signed between "Serbia" and RST unless the government is familiar with such a contract. The government took one step in that regard, because we have come to that conclusion, which you have now made, that this may be a problem for the business itself. To go back to the story of "Serbigas", there is a serious financial problem in the company. The Ministry of Business, Finance and Energy, we have sat down and discussed how to address the issue of "Serbiagas", precisely because it would not cause us a problem in the budget. Now we are no longer talking about "Serbiagas", but we are talking about the country's budget. It's something that's going to be solved in the next period and much faster than we think. When you mention Ukraine, remember where Ukraine is located, what place it is and how important it is for Russia and the EU at the moment. Our place is not such that we can do some kind of "taught" to now talk about whether or not the price of gas is going to go down and whether it's going to make it possible for us. Our positions are completely different, if we look at Ukraine, on the one hand, and if we look at Serbia, on the other hand. It's not economic, we're talking about political and other positions. As for pardoned foams, these foams were first put into the 2013 contract. I don't know what other foams they're talking about. The Ministry of Energy issued a statement on the occasion. There were no other pens before 2013. For the first time, they were contracted for 2013. As for the "EPS supply" and the accounts "EPS supply", the new EPS company has issued a proposal. Yes, why did it take them, not to comment on why the EPS took so long and why he didn't think before to turn to consumers, since we are opening the middle voltage market from January 1st this year, and next year we are opening the market for all consumers in 2015, I believe that with the help of the Ministry it will be much more agile. What we insist on, now in the account, is that exactly every item of fixed costs that the consumer, the customer, each of us should pay, must know what the accounting force means and where that money is going, which means compensation for "EPS supply" and what the percentage is given for privileged prices for renewable energy sources. These are the things we insisted on being well explained. By law, we have to have certain things that are in the account. Therefore, according to the methodology of the Regulatory Agency for Energy, etc. So I think this account, which the Ministry will present, as far as next week, can be said, is the first step in that account to be completely reviewed. Yes, citizens will be able to see on one side how much they spent kilowatts of hours, how much they cost, what the potential debt is, and on the other hand, the account will have all the explanations for each item within the account. By changing the tariff system in 2014 we can expect this account to be even more transparent. As far as it could be right now, I think we're gonna make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30823	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30824	Thank you for these answers. Namely, I have another additional question for, too, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Since the first public call to build a hydropower plant has been completed, you have been the one who announced the second in the last few weeks. I wonder if this other public call for construction will be, and if you already know, if it is certain that it will be now, then my question is, when will it be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30825	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30826	One of the few things that happened when the new government arrived, for the first time in energy, was one reviewed public call for the choice of potential investors to build small hydropower plants. The first was during the year and ended with 212 memos signed on the line by a potential investor, local self-government and the ministry. The ministry is either controlling or helping the investor get his licenses easier. What is novelty is that a new public call is being issued on December 30th in foreign and our media for 142 locations to build small hydropower plants. That's something I think might be good. The first public call should bring Serbia investments, when all is collected, between 350m and 400m euros. This second public call should be about 200m euros. When we get all this together, it'll take 60 days. As far as exploiting our sources is concerned, I believe it will go in this transparent and reviewed way. Thank you for asking, because this is important for renewable sources.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30827	The President of the Government has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30828	Allow me, since you said it yourself... I'd like to ask the MPs, because of you, we've come, listen to us. Since you spoke of a very serious topic, which is a political part of the agreement, it is in fact a political agreement with much more political, than economic parameters between the Russian Federation and Serbia, and related to the Energy Agreement. I think it's really high time that whoever signed that agreement said something about it. How much longer will this coalition defend this agreement, which has neither seen nor signed at all? It was signed at the time of the government of Vojislav Kostunica, when the president of the Republic was Boris Tadic. It was a coalition run by DS and DSS. Open your mouth, say something about it. What did you sign? What did you sign? I heard that Borko Stefanovic, I saw in Insider, that he was conducting some negotiations on it. Explain why you gave it that way. Explain how it turned out now that under these conditions we were doing it. Mrs. Batic, please ask them that question. I'd be happy to answer that. I know they're not in a position to be in the government right now to ask them questions and I don't think they'll even be in the near future, but in any case you can use the media to give them that question. President Tadic was at the signing of it. It was used in an election campaign, if you remember, there were some elections back then. Is that right? You were supposed to take a picture with Putin before the election. It was actually done to harm Tomislav Nikolic. Now don't let us answer those questions about what it says. You made a deal. You signed that. Why did you sign? Will you answer Serbia's question? We were in opposition, Mrs. Kolundjia, don't talk like that. Is that right? Therefore, stretch out and say, "Yes, we did." We follow what you signed. Don't tell us who signed it, who's got how much percent, how much money it's sold for. You did it for political marketing in elections and painting with Putin. Anyway, whether it was good or not, I have to tell you... He was right there. I would ask Minister Velimir Ilic, speaking of this topic, that he explain a little bit how these negotiations went, who played a role in all this, how it went. If you'll excuse me, Mrs Batic, I'd like to ask you to fill in some of this information. I'm tired of answering questions about something that someone signed a few years ago who knows how many years ago. Ask me something about what we're doing right now, and we're ready to answer for it. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: Just to get the word, since we have no right now. ) Mr Stefanovic, as far as I can see, wherever I open some media you are more present than some others who are in power. In any case, I do not dispute your right to, nor do I object to anything you say now, but it is not my fault that your position is not now such that you can answer parliamentary questions. I would ask someone to finally answer those political questions -- why did we do it at that point? Those questions cannot be answered by Ivica Dacic, Alexander Vukic cannot answer, Tomislav Nikolic cannot answer. Vojislav Kostunica, Velimir Ilic, Boris Tadic, and others who participated. I don't know if Rasim negotiated it, maybe he did, but Borko probably knows who was in that negotiating group. That's how I saw it in Insider. I don't know if that's true. You're a political party to me, and I really don't see any harm in plowing. We didn't come here to have a lullaby. I didn't feel very comfortable with what's happened so far. It was too quiet. It does not match the current state on Serbia's political scene. If you're so much for that election, if you're so much for that political struggle, let it burst. We can come to parliament here for ten days. What do you think, someone's afraid to argue with you? I can't wait to come here to the National Assembly because I have nothing to be afraid of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30829	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30830	Dear People's MPs, I want to explain some of the things that the Prime Minister spoke about and that once and for all we know one true truth about what actually happened. The political summit of the state at the time was unanimous to sign the agreement. There was no dilemma, but there was a big problem. Right, there was a campaign and a presidential election. Serbia's president left a few days early to prepare it, and the prime minister came with us later. What exactly happened? It couldn't be arranged who signed it. Then I was as neutral between two camps and the government was unanimous that I as a neutral political person, I was neither, nor the other camp was then in that system, I was neither for Boris, nor for this, but the agreement was unanimous to accept that I would sign. The government concluded that in Moscow in the presence of Serbia's president, Serbia's prime minister and Russia's president and prime minister, the agreement was signed with the Russian Deputy Prime Minister. When we came to Moscow, we had all these talks, it was over, it was time to sign. That's when the circus started. The vice president of the Russian government and I took positions to sign. The president of Russia and the president of Serbia were to stand behind us first, so someone took the chair to the Serbian prime minister and then at the moment of signing there is no one chair, Kostunica is coming and there is no place to sit. They quickly bring in the chair, set up, and they bring out the chair again quickly, they bring in and then Putin reacts and says – the chair to come back and then it all ends up so that everyone attended the signing. I don't want to comment on this anymore, but it was the position of the state summit then, from the president of Serbia, the government of Serbia then, the prime minister, all officials unanimously to sign the agreement and the agreement was signed. So there was no problem, and then it all ended the way it ended. I think I've explained a little bit, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30831	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30832	Thank you. I kind of liked hearing the answers from Minister Mihajlovic. After all, I asked her a question. Mr. Dacic, I don't think you followed me closely when I lied, because if you did, you'd probably figure out what I was going to say. I said that when the Energy Agreement with Russia was concluded it had the least to do with energy. I also said that when it was concluded, a serious crime was committed that ensued national wealth. When the same Energy Agreement was concluded, we now know, you all said well who it was and when it was concluded, that one crime was committed, and not abuse of official office, but once it was called high treason, so I also said that some MPs like to call on it today. So you didn't follow me what I was going to say, and I thank Mr. Ilic. He's always funny and in an extensive way trying to entertain us and explain the true condition. About what DHSS had then headed with Vladna Batic, she explained very well the energy agreement in one sending column, since he was also a columnist of one daily newspaper. The name of the Energy Agreement with Russia was referred to as a "gassive state", because what kind of agreement, a gas agreement, is that same as gas, but in that column it was written – read the drunk state, because in that state the government was in when it concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30833	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30834	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is that this chamber atmosphere has been broken, but I don't want to expose the political memoirs, I'm not in those years yet, but I'd like to ask specific questions to the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister. This issue will concern the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I know that these parties were not in power when the agreement was signed in 2008, or not all parties from today's government were in that power, and I know that none of the current ministers at the time did wave a pen in 2008, but I think that questions should be asked to the leaders of the current government because something should be done about these issues. At first glance, it can be thought that it is issues in the area of agriculture, but it is strategic issues, political issues. The prime minister said earlier that the agricultural capital branch in the Republic of Serbia and that is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister what they want to do, what is the government's policy regarding the fact that under this agreement, Article 63. Stabilisation and Association Agreements, EU citizens, EU citizens from 1 September 2017 can acquire property rights over agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia under which citizens of the Republic of Serbia can do so. No country that wanted to become an EU member has allowed this to happen several years before EU accession, but has done so several years after full membership. I'd just like to give you a few examples. The Czech Republic has negotiated the Stabilisation and Association Agreement so that EU citizens can arrive 10 years after the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU, in Poland for 12 years, in Latvia, Lithuania, Hungary, Slovakia for 10 years, in Slovenia for seven years, etc. I think there is still the possibility that this concrete solution should be changed, not by revising the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but by amending certain laws of the Republic of Serbia, I am referring above all to the Law on Agricultural Land of the Republic of Serbia in line with this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30835	Mr. Alexander Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30836	This is a big and difficult question for us, and I don't want it at all, although it would be the easiest thing for me to say – we're going to solve this question before 1 September 2017, in an easy way, it won't be easy. I don't want to blame anyone because I don't know how and how difficult it was to negotiate this Agreement in my own time. That's what some other people did, but I want to point out to you that not all countries had essays, so the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and even the mentioned Czech Republic that you were talking about, didn't have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement at all. That's one of the reasons they could move it. Now here's the question, because we here have a few big things that we're going to have to talk about in the future, in a much more honest and much more responsible way than we've done in the past. I'm going to try to open these topics directly and directly to your question. So, yeah, we're gonna try because we think it's early for us, because we wouldn't be able to participate, we don't have enough people to participate in a land purchase market game, and I think it would be good if we could move that around for a year. However, people in Serbia should not be intimidated by the fact that someone will take that land to Mars, or as if someone would not want to make the most possible offerings, if it is agricultural land, and most often it would be agricultural land. So we'll do our best to move that deadline, but if you ask me if it'll be easy, I'll tell you it won't because they'll tell you – you're not a reliable partner, you don't respect what you signed. We can change the law and the first time it will tell us in any chapter – there is something you have failed to meet, which is your European obligation, we have opened negotiations and you have to respect it. They will lead us to the wall and they will tell us – either you move on to Europe and you respect European rules, you respect your signature, you show up as a reliable partner, or you give up on it. On the other hand, we have a lot of cases like that. To ask people here in the O.R. when the cameras go off -- why don't we have cattle production today, why have we destroyed in the past 20 years? With all that's missing, the entrepreneurial spirit, with everything that we're all in the state pretty much incompetent or not doing a good enough job, or all our agriculture ministers weren't good to us, there's another reason. Only in our country, compared to countries in the environment, successful countries, livestock food, and above all for export cannot be GMO food. She's three, four times cheaper than the other one. Nobody gets paid, nobody can make a product that will be competitive on any market. Important and good news for all farmers, we now have money. We also have money for irrigation that has already been divided, the first 100m euros, or should be given these days. We get another 100m euros for farmers, for peasants. We don't know what to invest in, we don't know how to spend that money, because someone's got to go back and not throw himself in the well. The most favourable conditions of three years of grace period, some of which will be five years of grace period, which we never had, we don't know what to do with it. There's no receipt in anything. If we have more money, and I'm telling you that I expect to have more for other purposes, we won't know what to do. I think it's a much bigger problem. Mr. Dacic spoke at the beginning of tonight's exhibition, and we got an offer from the Russians to agree to take everything out of food, canned food, meat, fish and everything else, fruit, vegetables, but our processing industry is minimal. All we can carry out in raw materials is not even a tenth of what they would be pleased with. They have now slowed down the development of their relations with Moldova due to Moldova's turning towards the EU, and they want a final or not, I don't know what, not to enter into these political relations of one great force, towards another smaller country. A big market has opened up for us, a big opportunity for us, and now I'm telling you, we've got a problem with what to do with it. Minister Radulovic will organise a meeting of all our businessmen here on January 9th to see what it is we can offer. The letter we received from China is a letter in which they are interested in everything we have from pig, sheep and beef. So everything we have to give, and we have nothing to give, because we don't have meat to cover 25% of our needs and import meat that GMO meat. We're lying to our people about how we're going to protect it and how we're going to have tycoons that could have the highest price of soy sauce and other kinds of cattle food and thus blackmail the entire farm. These are our key problems, and that is why I will not, regardless of the fact that I respect you all very much, in any way I will not give you the right one – it will be easy. It won't be easy. A Stabilisation and Association Agreement has been signed, our side has signed it, these people here have signed it, but they represent Serbia at that time. We can't say dean - I'm sorry, turkey dots don't work. We'd be an insecure state, we'd be an unreliable state, and that's why we have to stick to it, and are we gonna try to change? We're trying. No one in Serbia noticed, some opposition politicians noticed, who were very correct, so they said. For the first time, we have succeeded, with the most unexpected British aid, from other friends of ours was expected, but British support was unexpected, where almost everything was transferred to our 35th chapter, all about Kosovo. No one paid attention to that, and that was a terrible negotiating success for our team. Are we gonna make it through this? We'll try. Can I guarantee you that we will succeed? Unfortunately, I can't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30837	The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30838	Of course, we didn't think it would be easy and, of course, we didn't and would not propose to amend that Agreement, because it would require so many long and complicated procedures and ratification of these agreements in all the national parliaments of the EU Member States, as in the European Parliament, that it would simply not be possible and would not be complete. We think that there is a solution and the question was whether the government is even considering this solution and how the ultimate goal could be achieved. The ultimate goal is to enable our agricultural producers to live off agriculture in the way their ancestors in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia did. I think there's a variety of experiences here and in parallel law, and we should start with those experiences. According to the SVM, it should be assumed that agricultural land can only be purchased by someone who is a registered agricultural producer, who has a residence, a certain number of years in the area of the catastrian municipality, etc. We think that this issue can only be solved in a way that changes the way it relates to domestic citizens as well. I know that we are then opening a new issue and it should be done in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it is not easy to limit domestic citizens from buying agricultural land, but we believe that there is a solution. The solution is unlikely to be liked by tycoons and some other categories of population, but we think that the time has come in which only agricultural land can be purchased by operators in the Republic of Serbia, whether domestic or foreign citizens. If we are trying to solve or resolve things in such a way, and if we speak with EU Member States in good time and with the European Commission on these modes, and that is why we are starting this "early issue" to make time for it, then we are convinced that a solution can be found. Of course, some entity that buys agricultural land in Serbia will not take that land to Mars. Of course not. But it is evident that agricultural land in the Republic of Serbia is more expensive than it is in most EU Member States and if the market is liberalised in such a way, then we will make it impossible for people who have been dealing with agriculture for generations to do so in the future. For this reason, I ask the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to come up with a timely solution to this problem in our talks with the EU Member States and the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30839	The word is Mr. Alexander Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30840	I'll thank Mr. Pastor for everything he said. We are prepared to receive all your suggestions and all the ideas you have I would ask you to deliver to us in writing. So we know something about the Hungarian experiences of the government of Viktor Orban has done something similar. We're not familiar enough. That's why we'll do it in the coming weeks. However, we are in a difficult situation today than he would, as you know, and not a slightly more difficult situation both politically and economically in any other way. As for the price of agricultural land, I cannot agree with you because the price of agricultural land following the announcement of the arrival of investors, especially in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, has jumped dramatically, and it is higher than in many EU countries. It is not as it is in the Netherlands, not as it is in Germany, but higher than in Romania, higher than in Bulgaria and in other EU countries. It's even higher than in Poland. Now we have countless problems. We've got bigger problems today. You are right, this should be considered today, not in 2017, because we welcomed 2014 that we do not have the possibility of any protection of domestic farmers, no possibility of protecting the domestic peasant from imports of all products from the EU, because I do not think it is in the best way possible to negotiate, and I cannot argue that it was possible for this to be much better. I know how these negotiations are going, and I can't explain to anyone how hard it is and hard and unorthodox. Anyone who thinks someone's going on a trip to Brussels to spend time there, ask people from the government, no one's going to Brussels alive. No one's going to Brussels alive because there's nothing nice waiting for us there, but there's trouble and trouble, but that's our job. It's a job for anyone who wants... I'm talking about meetings. I'm talking about our future. Who wants to twist every word, then it's another attitude. I wanted to say that to others who had previously negotiated that it was not easy for them and that it was not easy, even though it would be easier for me today to say that it was Djelic or this one. I know it wasn't easy. I repeat, we now have a great chance, but we have to start changing things here because we finally have a placement and a market guaranteed by long-term contracts that we're going to contract. It's just a question of whether we're going to define ourselves or not, are we going to have the strength to do it or not? See what we have destroyed in the past 10 years from our processing industry, from Delishes in Han, Gervina in Knjižvac, "Serbian women", "Budamke", "Podgorka" from Osijek. I don't know what we have left but a few private firms. Thank God they exist, that we have some processing industry. I don't know what we're gonna bring before those Russians and the Chinese to offer them. We used to export quiet ham to the U.S. Army. I thought we might have that. I offered on the interviews, and then they told me that we didn't have it for a long time and that someone had to get by, and we can export millions of tons. But we don't. Someone's got to do it. Are we gonna make it? I say once again, we will study everything you bring us, all ways to protect both our state interests and our national interests, but also to protect above all our peasants and farmers as much as we can. But we need to understand that we will be exposed to the European market, that we are acting marketly. We have some advantages that others don't have. Here's an example. I'm sorry to talk about it this way, but I don't think it's bad to hear it. For example, per kilogram of cherry transport to Russia cost us, to Moscow or Vladimirska, Kaluga, 22 cents per kilogram. We had an advantage because 20% had to pay for Poland. Poland no longer has to pay the 20% for their bilateral agreements. We're in trouble now. What do we do now? We are dealing with finding this transport train that travels three and a half days or four days to the capital of the Russian Federation, and it lowers the price to seven Euro-centi, which is a dramatic improvement for us and this is our new chance. But people have to produce it. For the first time, we'll have long-term contracts for five years, so they can make a calculation, invest in something and how much they can get back, and for the first time, they'll have something called an indicative price. They'll have a minimum price anyway. If they don't get paid, they'll make their own decisions. These are the things that are good news, but there's nothing of this good news if we don't do more, if we're not committed, and if we don't count on ourselves much more than any country, or even our own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30841	Thank you. If I may just add, I suppose you know, since I had the opportunity to visit Hungary in a direct agreement with the highest representatives of the Hungarian authorities, and later with our negotiating team to agree on the participation of Hungarian agricultural experts already negotiated in the area, they will be an integral part of our agricultural team. Mr. Pastor, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30842	The most important thing for me is that we get an answer in the sense that the government will do everything possible to find a solution to this problem. We are prepared as an opposition party to contribute to solving both this problem and everyone else. I know that agricultural producers have other problems that may be bigger today or seem to be bigger than the one that's only going to happen in three or four years, but I didn't think it would be right to start these agricultural issues because the Minister of Agriculture is not present right now, and we have good co-operation, communication with him, so in agreement with him we're going to start with other issues about agriculture, and we're going to present some solutions to him, or our proposals on these issues that I've raised. We are currently analysing the parallel practice of all EU Member States, not only Hungary. I agree that the Hungarian law on agricultural land can serve as an example, i.e. some solutions from that law and the Republic of Serbia. We want a more comprehensive way of looking at this problem and seeing how other countries have arranged this area. We can now discuss this and settle the price of hectares in Serbia. I agree that the price has slightly jumped in recent months, in the last year, but it should be taken into account the fact that, as you know, in certain areas of RS, above all AP Vojvodina, the quality of agricultural land is much better than in most EU Member States, and therefore I think that price hike is somewhat justified. But I still think that if we couldn't solve this issue, that under the signs of unfair competition would destroy our agricultural producers. Neither did I blame any previous government, nor any political party for such a solution from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, but I just pointed out the problem and I hope that all political parties, all parliamentary parties, feel that it is necessary to protect the domestic agricultural producer and, of course, not to question the importance, priority, accession... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Our EU countries, but in the coming years of negotiating this goal should be achieved in a way that is as much in the interest of so-called. ordinary people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30843	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30844	Mr. First Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, on behalf of the Single Serbia Parliament Club, I would like to ask a few questions, primarily the Minister of Sports, Mr. Vanji Udovic, and indirectly Mr. Jovanovic, Minister of Education. In fact, some time ago, we read a statement that made us a little bit happy, not a little bit, but a lot of joy, Mr. Sports Minister, who says he's going to launch an initiative to return to elementary and secondary schools in physical education or physical culture, but as it is called, to some old level. Today, according to my knowledge, in elementary schools, physical culture classes are two hours a week, plus one college, that means electively, but not necessarily, and in high schools are two hours a week. Once, in my day, and a lot of people remember that, it was three hours of physical education both in primary and secondary schools required. When I say this, that we are pleased with this statement by Mr. Udovic, because according to the statistical data that are inexorable, based on certain systematic medical examinations, we come to some knowledge that many young people today in primary-school age and secondary-school age have problems with flat-tips, with the wrong spine, with cardio-vascular problems and with some other health problems that are just the result of physical inactivity, because these young people today, with certain technical achievements such as computers and the like, spend a lot of time sitting on a chair, and what little time they should spend in physical education or physical culture classes, or avoiding themselves, or in some other way and in such a small number of hours do not participate. In order for the nation, especially the young population, to be healthier, to be able to meet certain needs, not only in terms of physical but also in relation to other activities, we need to support this initiative, and I therefore ask Mr. Sports Minister Udovici – when he thinks and in what way, and there must be in particular co-operation with the Ministry of Education, to move into this initiative and whether it is possible to start a new school 2014/2015 in the next half. years, changes to regulations, if they need to change? I can promise in advance that the MP club and the JS MPs will give you full support. Please answer that question for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30845	The word is made by Minister Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30846	Thank you for asking, thank you for your support. We are facing a serious problem and for the first time we are publicly saying that we have a problem and for the first time all the results of the research and the problems children face are coming out. Of course we know what the percentage of deformities is and how much that percentage is growing year by year. We discussed that together with the Ministry of Education, we would launch an action not only to return to teaching activities, but also to strengthen extracurricular activity, where we would like to infect children to play sports, and thus educate parents to take children to sports. I think it's extremely important that we educate senior citizens and parents to, in their own example, encourage children to engage in sports. Of course we have to allow kids where to play sports and work on sports infrastructure, so that children can deal with sports and get infected and increase the percentage of the number of gyms of physical culture in schools themselves, but to tell you specifically whether they can from the new year of school, I think it's ungrateful to talk about it, and I think it's hard for anyone to say right now. What is important is that we have launched a "Sport to Schools" action and through the Serbia Sports Union action "What are you training", where we are trying to educate and educate parents to get acquainted with all parents, and through the "Sport to Schools" action to infect children themselves to practice sports. It's an extracurricular activity where children can choose. What is positive is that the response to this action is extremely large and that children want to deal with sport itself, where basic motor skills develop in children themselves, and that is what we want to encourage young people to take care of themselves, to take care of their physical maturity, because we all know that investment in this, in addition to investment in education, is the most rewarding investment. I've already talked to Minister Jovanovic about it, I think we both have the same wish, not just these two ministries, but the entire government, because we want to face and solve an objective problem. These two actions will be strengthened, on my part, which I can now do as Minister of Youth and Sports, through education and through co-operation with the Ministry of Education, to influence what you said, change in teaching activities and the law itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30847	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30848	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second question I would also like to ask concerns you and your ministry, which is – whether and how much youth and sports ministry, along with the fruit and other ministries, primarily the Ministry of Local Self-Government, will make sport infrastructure, to call it, in less developed and undeveloped municipalities, so that citizens living in these territories, in these municipalities, can do more recreational and amateur sport. Because what the situation is now, we have very poor indicators, that in these small, undeveloped municipalities, where there is not enough resources to build sports grounds, terrains to deal with recreational sports, they are not able to deal with it. I come from Jagodina and I can boast that we, at the level of local self-government, have invested a lot in sports courts, sports infrastructure, and the result of that investment, is safe in some other sports, because from this sport practice recreationally, and then amateurally, comes from quantity to quality, people recognize themselves, that they can give more in some sport, and therefore we have a situation that Jagodina has literally become, in its size, one of the most sports cities in Serbia. So I ask you a question, you and the rest of the government -- will you separate more resources to help local self-governments who are unable to set aside enough resources in their budgets to build fields, primarily for recreational sports, and then for amateur sports, to help small amateur clubs, so that as many young people as possible can attract sports, to separate them from these devastating things, sitting in cafes, not to mention drugs, alcohol, etc.? Because by engaging in sports and physical activity, they certainly contribute to a healthy body, a healthy spirit, and that will yield results. So please answer this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30849	The word is made by Minister Udovicic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30850	I honestly am not in favour of helping clubs, but to allow young people to be recreationally involved in sports, to be made up of terrains that are available to all and on which they can, without any compensation, engage in sports. Such terrains are enough, but they are not proportionate enough, as you look at them, because many complain that such terrains do not exist. My desire is only to build fields, but also to build a place where people can be recreationally involved in sports and themselves. I think that this year has been approved and there are allocations for making such terrains, but we need to know that there are many terrains in Serbia that have already begun to build and have stopped. I think it's crazy to move to build something new. I think it's much better to finish what's already started and make out half of something in one whole than to move into some new action. So that we can build ourselves up and give opportunities to the people, it's also dependent on economy and finance. If you take another country as an example, now big economic forces, China and Japan, they've evolved in sport for the last ten years. After their crises and wars, they couldn't even be strong in sports, because neither their economy nor their finances were strong, so they couldn't invest, both in clubs and recreational sports. It is inevitable that Serbia is investing more and more in sports, as well as in its own recreational sport year by year, and that is something that we will continue and improve, because we want to take care of young people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30851	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30852	Thank you, Mr. Minister. In the end, I can only tell you that I am very pleased with your answers. What I want to tell you and everyone in the government on behalf of the Single Serbia Parliament Club is that investing in sport, investing in youth can only give this Serbia and this country a improvement, that tomorrow we have champions, as we have had in basketball, in volleyball, in water polo, in martial arts, and that Serbia is recognizable by that. But in order to do so, funds must be found, as you said and promised, to enable people to play sports in every part of this Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30853	The word is from Ambassador Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30854	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to say that we, like Together for Serbia, will try to take this session of parliament, as well as any other opportunity, to take advantage of development as much as possible. Because of this, above all Mrs. Mihajlović, then Mr. Bačević, Minister of Finance Krstic, Mr. Radulovic, who is not here, and the pity that the prime minister is not here, but it is great that Mr. Vukic is here, I want to ask one question that concerns or has our relations with the oil industry of Serbia, in a different way than we could have heard earlier. I think at this point the most important economic decision is made in Serbia, right in the oil industry of Serbia. It is a decision on the modernisation of the Panchev Refinery, whether that modernisation will be carried out and, if it will, in what way. Is that going to be, like, a deep hydrocracking that costs about $650 million, or so on? A delayed coke that costs 300 million dollars? In order for everyone to understand what this is all about, last year NIS processed 2,100,000 tons of oil, which is more than half of that domestic oil. If Serbia's oil industry had only foreign import oil as its raw materials, instead of profiting from $650m, it would have lost $200m. No one in Serbia knows whether there will be oil in Serbia in six years or not. In six years we can face one very bad fact, that the Republic of Serbia must deal with NIS, as already deals with Zelizar in Smederev. On November 19th, I set the topic on the Committee on Economy, Energy and Regional Development here in the Serbian Parliament. Unfortunately, from November 19th to today, and I know that Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic, who is the chairman of this committee, has been working very hard, we do not manage to bring these ministers I was talking about and Mr. Kravchenk here to the Serbian Parliament to talk about it. Otherwise, we have a right to do that. It would be very bad to make an inadequate decision. It depends on what method in technology will be applied depending on whether without domestic oil, we will have a loss in NIS or the current profits will be increased by $100m annually or $200m annually. That's why I think it's good, Mr. Wolfie, that you're here. At this point, I do not see, regardless of all negotiations with the most different partners, which are some closer, some than the results, but at this point in Serbia one capital economic decision is made. Serbia's oil industry has 2,350,000 small shareholders, they are citizens of Serbia, and the state owns about 30% of the shares, or slightly less. I think this is an essential question. So my question is whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia has instructed the members of the Board of Directors of NIS and the Supervisory Board how to stick to this decision?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30855	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30856	I completely agree with you that it is very important what technology will be used, since today the Panchevo Refinery is working with 60% of its capacity, that it is 20% less than, say, 2004, that the new facility we opened is still working with loss, primarily because of the reduced processing. When we talk about technology, we are still talking about it with NIS, but there is absolutely no need to lose one more thing in mind, which is that we are also talking to members of the Supervisory Board, but also with members of the Assembly, as well as with the Director General of NIS. The decision will be made and heard. That's why we made that document that we tried to give guidance on how all those who are representatives of the NIS should behave. The second thing, we have 29%, so much of our participation in NIS. In that sense, I believe that we will succeed in a partnership relationship, regardless of how involved he is, to make the best assessment, or best decision, and that it is in everyone's best interest to increase the profit. So we're still having conversations about what technology is going to be used, to answer your question directly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30857	Thank you. The word is Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30858	Okay. So you didn't give them instructions. I wasn't involved in the NIS sales negotiations, but I fell to be a representative of the state when the Russians came to NIS. I was two years old, and now I'd only bring up a few facts. I also fought with my associates to have one key provision in the NIS statute, that the NIS Supervisory Board, in addition to having the right to control the legality of the work of NIS, has the right and to give its views on the integrity of the business. It's a key thing. Based on this provision, our NIS representatives, elected by the NIS Assembly, can open any issue on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all this big stuff. Since, of course, he and the government can, even I think he has an obligation to do so, my opinion was why not also the committee responsible for parliament, so I put it on the agenda here. I am pleased to conclude that a decision has been unanimously made here on the Committee on Business to discuss this issue here in the Assembly. Now something about experience. So, the majority shareholder and management had an idea and they put up a proposal a few years ago to sell, say, oil sites in Angola, whose NIS owns it. Somewhere around $40 million was the price. We've opened the subject here. As you can see, these findings have not been sold. Every year NIS earns 40 million dollars, plus-minus from these springs. The other topic. There was a proposal to export Velebit oil, our oil, by 80% of the price of ‘REB’ oil. That's where we also opened the topic based on the rights that we had and the sale didn't take place. As a result, a decision has been made to invest $150m in the New Zealand refinery. It's a decision this year and the investment should start next year. So 150 million dollars to process basic oils and NIS to be a producer of motor oils, which is one capital and important thing. I'll remind you of something else when things open up in a good way. Two years ago, farmers had fuel for 65 dinars, which is also a decision jointly made by the NIS with the government of the Republic of Serbia. We have the basis, we can, through our representatives at NIS, at the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, you in the Serbian Government and this Assembly, open every issue in a legitimate way, because it is the subject of the agreement, the Statute, in the final line and this agreement that we have had. Capital decision, once again, 650 million dollars. We'll have the most modern refinery in Europe. Then other things are opened, and when there are four million tons of diesel and gasoline, I think there will be another way to talk about whether it is good or not that Gazprom bought NIS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30859	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30860	Just one piece of information, the Ministry of Energy's door is always open if the Committee, by chance, didn't answer, the Ministry is here to answer all questions. Therefore, when the decision is made and the instructions are given, as you say are not given, no, but discussed, you will get it, but regardless, you can always contact the Ministry. That we're not going back to why we still didn't keep 49% at NIS, if we already had that. It may have been a way to have an even greater opportunity to influence some of the decisions, but I agree that we can open everything together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30861	Thank you. The word is from MP Dusan Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30862	For the last time, let me just say once again that the president of the Committee, so here he is now, and I support him here, Mrs. Tomic, is trying to convene a session of the Committee on Economy where you and Mr. Bacevic, Mr. Krstic and Mr. Radulović, director of Kravchenko, are invited to discuss this matter. Don't let us know what you've decided. We want to talk about it and we have the right, legitimately. I'm using what Mr. Wolf is here to support you to come here to the Assembly and let's talk about this thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30863	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30864	I thank the chairman. Honorable members of the Government, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. I would have a few questions for Minister for Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Mr Igor Mirovic. Local self-government has an obligation both to citizens and to the state to achieve as little cost as possible effects in the country's overall development. However, Mr. Minister, our local self-government is facing a large number of employees, having problems with administration costs, having problems with a large number of party personnel. In general, there are many irregularities and illogicalities in regulating the working status of employees in local self-government. My opinion is that we lack the principle of professionalization, we lack professional training of employees in local self-government, and we lack transparency in the employment of employees in local self-government. The highest responsibility for the state in local self-government is borne by the state. So far, there has been no legal solution that would rightly regulate the working-law status of officials in local self-government. Your ministry has proposed that law. The public hearing is over. It should soon be found in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in front of MPs for debate and my question to you is how does this law regulate the working-legal status of officials in local self-government?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30865	Thank you. The word has Minister Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30866	You've seen the problem well. The Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government prepared the text of the draft law on employees in the AP and units of local self-government. We expect colleagues from other ministries, yes, a public debate has been concluded, with their proposals and objections, and all in order to improve the solutions contained in the law, to get to know the Ministry and the Government as soon as possible and to believe that in January, the government will establish a bill, then refer the proposal to the assembly procedure. The draft law regulates the working-legal position of officials, officials and deputies who are employed in the AP and units of local self-government. We plan to, in fact, establish this law a professional, responsible official system that respects the specificities of AP and local self-government units on the principles of professionalisation and depoliticalism. There are numerous examples that both the AP authorities and local self-government are breaking these principles and that they are actually being threatened and that they are assumed by some of the other principles that you were talking about. So, in January, I believe, depends on the dynamics of government work, you can expect in the assembly procedure and that law. By the way, together with the Ministry of Finance, because the laws are consistent, we are also working on the arrangements of the system of eligibility, i.e. the salaries of employees of local self-government units and the AP and I believe that together with the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government and that law we need to analyse, and the finance minister has joined us to draw up a law on the financing of the AP Vojvodina, we will arrange a wider system whose part will be this issue that we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30867	The word is Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30868	The EU's budget strategy for the period from 2014 to 2020 puts an emphasis on increasing the capacity of local self-government and on administrative reform. The key question is how to prepare for the EU funds that will be available to us to withdraw and invest in the best way possible. When I say how to prepare, then I mean first of all, preparing a project technical administration and raising capacity at local and regional level for their successful application. If we want to present Serbia as a serious and responsible country, then we must not allow ourselves to have any project signed for any reason not realising whether it is because of a change in government or someone's will to provide or not the means to implement them. For a long time, in my opinion, it is a very important question of what is the right level of decentralisation in terms of the distribution of these funds and how objectively to set criteria for the distribution of these funds. Third, we need a regional development plan. You have announced it, but I want to remind you that 115 strategies have been written in Serbia so far in recent history. Almost all dead letters on paper. Because of everything I said, my question to Minister Mirovic – does the ministry, within its jurisdiction, prepare to amend the Law on Local Self-Government? A new Law on the financing of local self-government in order to improve municipalities and cities in order to solve citizens' problems?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30869	The word has Minister Mirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30870	Yes, I would like to inform you that I have educated a special Working Group and my predecessor in this place, Col. Kalanovic also worked on drafting the text of the draft law, but I was not satisfied with this text, so I formed a new Working Group tasked with drafting the text of the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government. We need to review so far the proposed solutions in the area of local self-government and everything that the previous working group has come up with, but also all the experiences we want to get from local self-government itself, from other ministries and create a new draft of the law. The plan is to do it by March 2014. The aim of this law is to better regulate the rules above all, when it comes to technical issues. Call-in rules, holding sessions of the Assembly. There was a lot of unfair, unprofessional and non-democracy. We were witnesses to a number of local self-government when basic principles were violated in that part. We want to review the authority of the executive bodies in order to increase the supervision of the work of other entities at local level. The idea is to make a more efficient system of relations between municipalities and local communities, to establish mandatory elements of an agreement on inter-municipal co-operation, you talked about regional development, about large regional projects, numerous projects have been unfinished for decades and one reason is that cities and municipalities have no will, or have no obligation, and we want to bring this issue into the new text of the law to approach regional projects in a more responsible way. We have incredible negative examples, such as the relationship between Šapac and Sremska Mitrovica, when it comes to a major regional project that is completely completed, financed partly by the European Union, and today we cannot set up a governance structure that should be managed by this project, it is a regional dump, because one political party or one coalition in the power of the Sapac, and the other in Sremska Mitrovica and cannot establish a dialogue on how in personal and in any other sense will be a governing structure. So, the state of Serbia and European donors, or European funds have come together and implemented this project together, and our mentality, or our parliamentary disorganization, does not allow for the satisfaction of a large number of citizens to manage the project and that a large number of citizens in Machva and Srem benefit from it. Therefore, we would therefore like to introduce these questions into the new text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government, and all the proposals are welcome and we will also talk to the committees and MPs in the Assembly, so that this text has full quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30871	National MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30872	Thank you. Dear President, Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will ask the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health. Since this issue is related to the anti-organised crime and corruption sector, but also to the public health issue. In fact, recent research has shown that there are about 100,000 drug addicts and several thousand drug traffickers in our country. I hope so, and I think that one of the top priorities of the government of Serbia, and the Bureau of Security Control, is the fight against drug traffickers, because 100,000 in the highest percentage of young people, and we know that they are in the biggest problem in our country over 50% of young people are not employed, should be the priority of every country, including ours. So, about 100,000 young people whose abilities, knowledge capabilities cannot be exploited on the market, cannot be exploited in the context of entrepreneurial initiatives and the development of society and of course of the economy. In that sense, the issue was addressed to the first Deputy Prime Minister, related to a comprehensive action against drug and drug cartels that took place 20 days ago, where more than 220 drug dealers were arrested at over 900 locations, 118 of them remained in custody and were seized about 18kg of heroin and a few dozen pounds of other intoxicating drugs. However, in public, some analysts, we have differing views that the action had no major effects, that it was not effective that the drug supply on the market remained the same, that demand remained the same, and therefore the price of narcotics, and of course the aim of each action of this kind, and we believe that it had the right effects to reduce demand, to reduce supply and to reduce the offer and thus to address the problem in one quality way. As far as the health minister is concerned, whether a new drug fight strategy is being done, as it stands out at the end of this year and whether we have new models that are simply needed and we can see examples of other developed countries, for example, President Obama defined the plan in four points for fighting drugs, which defines the prevention and education of parents, children, the involvement of these models and programmes in educational institutions as one preventive action in the fight against this monster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30873	Mr. Wolfie, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30874	I thank you both for the findings and for the question, I will only say that we as a state have great problems in countering what you have called the greatest monsters and these problems are caused by the number of people who are directly involved in solving these cases, the large and serious organisation of these criminal groups, some legal shortcomings, I would also say in practice that the problem today is also a practice that many people on a political scene make fun of and make fun of everything someone tries to do somewhere. I'll try to give you an example that you'll be surprised it's possible, which we didn't have a solution to. Four days ago in a Belgrade club, a large and famous Belgrade club was raided and there were several persons who had between 30 and 50 grams of drugs in their pocket. Some of those women's faces ran into the bathroom, threw it away, pulled the water, screaming about how to God someone raped them, attacked them, so the police didn't know what they were doing, and to cover up evidence of anything. At that moment, it was found in a man named Muamer Rexhepi 50,000 euros. It was quite clear what it was about, that a transaction had been made. After a brief stay, we had to let our face go. The face had to be released and it would only be prosecuted for foreign exchange violations, laughed at our faces, told our officers that they would be prosecuted for overrunning everything that was allowed to be used, and only in that place was found about half a kilo of cocaine. And you don't want to hear that everyone without a right had any security weapon with a bullet in the pipe, everyone had a bullet in the pipe, when you ask them -- wait for how you got it, I don't know who you got it from. Then you go to criminal and criminal charges, but it happens to you every day. Then someone laughs when you say in public, the vagina, because the small scale is a vagina, and the owner of that nightclub found exactly that scale for measuring those small amounts of drugs, but we didn't find any drugs. Now they're going to convince us that they're measuring meat at 30 grams. These are the problems we face every day. Nevertheless, I would like to say that Mr. Dacic particularly knows that in Brussels at the opening of the screening with our police, that action was greatly welcomed. I want to tell you that it's in the previous period, and after that action we've continued with more significant factors, now I'm going to give you that data in an official way. A total of 274 persons were processed. It's almost impossible to imagine any action being carried out without 274 persons being processed. It was with great work, with the great effort of the police and all the security services, there was and I have to say for a little bit of luck that not everything has been broken down, even where you can't go after people directly for drugs, you can chase them for holding and possession of weapons that are illegal, in any case 274 persons have been processed. 21,238.82 grams of different types of intoxicating drugs were found and temporarily taken away from which heroin, marijuana, cocaine, then hashish, amphetamines, various narcotics, 9,941 pieces of various drugs in tablets, 2,200 milliliters of intoxicating drugs in liquid state, 2,425,40 grams of powdered substance whose skill is still in progress. There's also been an entire drug-produced lab.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30875	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30876	I'm sorry, two more sentences. What was particularly startling to me is the way some people joked about, you'll hear about the arsenal of weapons that were only found in these faces in one morning. There are 27 guns, 16 rifles, one rifle, 14 bombs, 525 grams of plastic explosives, 1,100 pieces of ammunition of different caliber, 10 vehicles that were stolen, so, stolen against the law state of those persons, 915.330 dinars and counterfeited money of 3.690 euros, plus 2,090 euros. So that was the result. Can you do better? We hope he can do better, and we'll check very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30877	Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30878	Mr. Marinkovic, I thank you for the question that really affects every man in this country, of course, and beyond these borders, because, unfortunately, in order to discover the gates of heaven, many representatives of the young generation are actually entering a hell called dependence on psychoactive substances. You have information that there are about 100,000 young people. However, what is a fact, it is that we were organised to deal with the detection of that number at the Ministry of Health six months ago, that the pompidou questionnaire was very helpful when it came to heroin addiction and that many steps were made, above all, on the agenda of tasks entrusted to public health institutions headed by the Institute of Public Health, Batut, who has a truly central role and office that deals specifically with these issues. On your particular question whether or not we are planning a new strategy, I must tell you that it has been evaluated by both European experts and from the professional circles of different professions, which, from different aspects, represents a question of drugs and psychoactive substances, that it is better to focus on different forms of addiction within the framework of the public health strategy. I mean, of course, tobacco addiction and alcohol addiction and dependence on psychoactive substances. But what's the fact that only cross-cutting work can give the right answer to a strategy that's why at the government level is a council that has 23 members, twenty-three actually. The coordinator of these representatives of different ministries is the Minister of Health and we are very serious about the strategy you are interested in. Standardisation in the creation of a strategy is with the experience of truly EU countries that have developed to the maximum, and what some more recent data is that people who suffer from this disease, because addiction is a disease treated in the most modern way and that we are three, four central health institutions within the health ministry that we have declared reference, organized not only treatment of methadone addiction, but also application of buprenorphine as a more modern treatment method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30879	The word is Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30880	I thank you for these exhaustive answers and for the specific data I've received. There's a country in the Far East where $1,000 is a penalty for throwing cigarette piss at asphalt, and they don't have any problems with, not any, but they have very little drug-trafficking problems. Of course, it's a topic for a bigger, wider discussion both at the government level and at the level of all the social factors that models apply. The land is called Singapore. It has approximately the population of Serbia. My second question concerns the fight against corruption and the fight against corruption in particular in the public sector. I'm going to ask the first Deputy Prime Minister. Today we received information that at the end of this year, when it comes to public procurement, by revising business regularity in 56 audited entities, it was found that supplies of goods, services, works contrary to the law amounted to 31.5 billion dinars. The law came into force on 1 April and its effects will be seen only next year, but it is clear to all of us that efficiency in the public sector and the fight against corruption in the public sector is the key to solving the problem of the country's development, economic development and incentivising a private initiative for which we as a social-democratic party are life-interested. My colleagues from the global organisation of parliamentarians for the fight against corruption, primarily the head of the delegation, Mr Zoran Babic, at our meetings we came up with the idea to propose and set up a special department of court to deal with both corruption and the fight against corruption in the public sector, so I urge that some consideration be given to such initiatives, in order to prevent all these kinds of abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30881	Mr. Wolfie has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30882	We haven't had a chance to get a DRI report yet, of course there's what you call corruption or committing crimes that fall under corruption, let even crime. There are administrative failures somewhere, so as far as I understand the DRI people, criminal charges have been filed, applications for business offences, and criminal charges are understood. If we don't judge anyone in advance, so each of us is possible on that list, we'll wait to see, but what's very important is that the responsible approach is to correct mistakes where mistakes are involved, and where there's more than mistakes, it's to be sanctioned. We are now coming up with the next problem, which is that in our country, what I was trying to say at first, whatever you do and whatever you do, it's hardly just everyone, but most of them will be fine, and I'm going to remind you of the case from a few days ago, finding cabbage in the vehicle of the Ministry of Finance, the Treasury, if I'm not mistaken, and two days we've suffered severe criticism on all social networks. Lazar Krstic, after only two days when the case was investigated, launched a disciplinary procedure, suspended a man, did everything possible to do, to show, first of all, that we disagree and that, in principle, we will react immediately and even with such banal cases and on such banal examples, show that we will deal with it. Then the avalanche was about to react – and what did you do to him? What about the cabbage? Why didn't you know who? Then I read, a man wrote something that is true. He said -- listen, people, no one will ever please us, for two days we've talked the same about how this should be replaced immediately or put behind bars. When someone replaced him or initiated a disciplinary procedure, then we're not good with that either, it bothers us. You're absolutely right. This is what I said about the relationship and communication that exists with the public. What you're absolutely right is ours to create a system. We have a Anti-Corruption Strategy adopted by this Parliament, and we also have an Action Plan, which was supported by both the Venice Commission and the European Commission. I think we have a good plan and we know exactly what to do. Whether we succeed and at what time to root out or root out the extent to which we think it's tolerable, it's a matter of both systems and education. I'm afraid it'll take us a few years, but in any case, I think we're in the right direction. You saw after years of falling on the list, published by Transparency International This is the first year in which we have improved our position on the list, as regards perceptions of the fight against corruption. Remember, it is only a perception in which numerous political opponents, not taking care of the country's interests, were mostly used to deal with the parties in power, saying it was political matters, political accounts. Obviously, some on the side, who were incomparably more objective observers, saw it in a better and different way. In any case, it is our obligation to act in the interests of Serbia, in the interests of its citizens, as you said, and that will not be easy at all, at all, a simple task at all, but I think that many important things have been launched and that it is important that we finish it by the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30883	The word is made by MP Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30884	You're absolutely right. Given our insight into Transparency International's 2013 report, we're in 72nd place with almost 42nd. Only Macedonia from the former Yugoslav countries is in a better position and 34% of corruption fell compared to the previous year. So the level of corruption is lower. I would like to appeal to the party that I belong to that period of combating systemic corruption not only for a few years, but for once with a lightning reaction, the political will to be dealt with, to solve this problem, because it is the basis of the economic, cultural and any other development of our country that reflects on both domestic and foreign investment and on all other aspects of our development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30885	The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30886	Mr. President, I have two questions for the government. First question for the Prime Minister. After a longer stagnation in relations with the IMF, intensive negotiations began. My particular question – what does Serbia expect, what will the precaution arrangement bring us? That is an important question for us, for Serbia's further progress. The second question is for the finance minister, Mr. Lazar Krstic. How the AP Vojvodina financing issue will be addressed in the future. Since we are for the 2012 budget, for the 2013 budget and the 2014 budget and for the bile polemics on how to legally ensure that what the Constitution has prescribed is done. A specific question for the minister – that he promised talks would take place then, what level are the talks being held and how far have they arrived? We think it is very important that at the beginning of the year we reach an agreement with the AP leadership, so that we do not eventually come back into the situation of whether something was done under the Constitution, by law, and whether the alignment of the Statute with the Serbian Constitution will wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30887	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30888	I'll answer both questions. As for the first issue, concerning the IMF and the precautionary arrangement, this arrangement is important to us because it would take another step in terms of restoring credibility in international financial markets, i.e. we would show that all of this and these not easy things that we take are actually leading us to a situation that guarantees stability and sustainability, both macro-financial and economic systems, which is something that we have been gambling over the past few years. What I'd like to point out is that this arrangement, two things I'd like to say about it. The first is that we do not need this arrangement because of money, that the level of foreign reserves in the National Bank of Serbia is such that we are not going to an arrangement where we negotiate borrowing with the IMF, but simply a precautionary arrangement in order to put on another symbol, i.e. the belief that the reform programme we are conducting is credible. The second thing I would like to say is that there is no small shift and the fact that in mid-February next year we will have a formal mission to negotiate after the end of the arrangements that we had previously and quite serious disagreements from the beginning of this year and about the assessment of the 2013 budget deficit. As for the issues of funding of the AP Vojvodina, we have already had a meeting with Minister Mirovic and I, the leadership of Vojvodina, with Mr Pastor and Mr Radoman on one level where we agreed to approach problem-solving. The first working group meeting is scheduled for tomorrow, which has been delayed for a number of years, if we consider the Constitution and when it is prescribed. I want to say that we approach here, I hope that this is how we approach, starting tomorrow, I am chairing this task force, solving problems, that is, the issues of financing the AP Vojvodina in one responsible and comprehensive way, in order to solve this issue systematically, and within the framework of the Constitution. It implies and extends the context. Context of what competences are, what are obligations arising from these responsibilities, not only for the AP Vojvodina, but also for local self-governments, as two different levels of government, which we have, except for the Republic. So, what are the competences here, we have seen that there are problems and that is a broader political issue, which is the obligations arising from these responsibilities and how these commitments will be financed, which brings us to this final issue. I hope to have a constructive conversation that will help us in what we talked about when we talked about the budget here, which is that next year we have a much healthier budget system, i.e. a way of planning and ultimately taking responsibility for different, whether local self-government, whether the AP Vojvodina or the Republic, when we talk about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30889	The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30890	I'm completely satisfied with the answer. I especially think it's important here to point out that this government is going to encounter problems, these are two great examples that point to that, and it's not waiting for problems to build up and solve them eventually, or to leave them somewhere under the straw and to be solved by someone else. This is an excellent example of how problems should be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30891	The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30892	Thank you, Mr. President. I would ask Mr Dacic that and as prime minister, but much more as the chairman of the Social-Economic Council, that is, the most responsible for the state of social dialogue in Serbia, if there is any social dialogue in Serbia today. In fact, for many years, you know, I'm just becoming boring myself, I'm talking about that there is no social dialogue in Serbia, that the Social-Economic Council is not working and that the Social-Economic Council is just one paramount need for European integration, since the EU fully shows the importance of the existence of social dialogue and the good work of the Social-Economic Council. Namely, you do not have any countries in Europe, nor a country in an environment that has made a small step or a shift in both economic and social solution of the problem, which, before then, social dialogue, or the functioning of the Social-Economic Council, has not brought about a higher level. I constantly point to the importance of social dialogue, the work of the Social-Economic Council as one place where we will unconflictly solve all our problems. This is becoming particularly important and necessary at these times because in 2014 it will not be a little light year - the end of restructuring, a large number of cancellations, social tensions and social unrest, and how important it is in the end line we see and now, because we are witnessing a complete blockade of any dialogue and at times when we need to pass one of the most significant laws, the Labour Act, the law that we need to resolve relations between workers and employers. Not that there's no dialogue, no public debate. So it's all broken up. We're all in one blockade. At this very moment, all the failures, all the inactions to raise social dialogue to one higher level, have surfaced, and they are the result of the unresolved issue of union representativeness, the easy experience of the importance of social dialogue, the disrespect of the Labour Act, this valid, above all in those parts and those provisions relating to the representativeness of the union, and as a consequence of all this, we today have discrimination of the social partners. Now, since many have presented some new initiatives and suggestions here, I must say that the Association... (President: Time. Nothing then, I'll talk about it below.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30893	The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30894	It is a problem of representativeness, i.e. how to identify representativeness, and that is an objective problem we are facing. He's not only with the union, he's with the employers' association. We have one such situation that if you call one, then the other won't come to the meeting, etc. I am aware of all this, and I think that something must be done now when the labour law is changed and that this issue will be resolved in a way that will allow at least that part of the problem to no longer be one of the problems that the highest attention is given. Of course, there is another part of the problem that might not even be considered an important topic, an important area, which is social bargaining, or social dialogue. We have established this tripartite relationship, which means that, apart from the state, that is, the Government of the Republic of Serbia as the holder of the executive power, representatives of the union and representative representatives of employers are involved. This also implies holding sessions, holding consultations, giving views on the most significant legal acts whose problem concerns the work of this Social Economic Council. There is also an institution that does not need a common opinion. Then you have a debate, everyone has an opinion, and in the end everything ends up as the government says or as others say, because it's not binding if you don't reach a consensus on all this. There are problems, but I think it is generally important that the laws concerning trade unions and employers, i.e. this package of topics that are important for socio-economic dialogue, are really discussed by representative associations, i.e. representatives. Mr. Krkobic is not here, he is a resolute minister, but we have repeatedly had a meeting on these topics in the resolution ministry. For now, there are two representative trade unions, the Independent Union and the Independence Union. On the other hand, there are several unions that still see them as representative, but they are not accepted by the relevant bodies that the ministry has, such as the Cvetanovic Confederation. And there's Ranka at the head of a union. There are unions of "Slat" and I don't know any more. It's not for us to talk about which unions we prefer or not, but really some objective criteria should exist, and there are things that aren't just representative unions that matter, but everyone else. In any case, this is too big a topic not to talk about it with everyone, and that means if it's the Labour Act, you can see that there's been a problem in the public debate. Someone thinks the organization belongs more to the Ministry of Economy than to the Ministry of Labour. It's probably true somewhere in between. Both must be heard. Sometimes these interferences in communication, the disturbances in relationships lead to the fact that, as may be the case now, the public debate has been interrupted, i.e. the ongoing public debate is not being held. We need to sit down after New Year's and Christmas holidays and see what we can do as soon as possible. We talked about changing the Labour Act exclusively in order to create an effective system and an effective one that will also protect workers, but will help businesses to function without any unnecessary blockade. So we're making changes to the Labour Act in the interests of both employees and employers and looking for a compromise.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30895	The word has a National MP, Ranka Savik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30896	Mr. Prime Minister, I fully agree with you that there is no love for certain unions here. There are already clear rules of play here. So there's a labour law. However, we have the fact that since 2006, some participants in the work of the Social-Economic Council have not proved representativeness. Therefore, the rules of the game have changed, but neither the government nor the resolute ministry do anything to establish the rules. In this regard, I have also launched an initiative and I would briefly point out to you that the draft labour law provides for a price to prove representativeness to be 50,000 members and that each operator that meets this condition enters the Social-Economic Council. I'd like to make you some other suggestions, just so the government thinks about it. I believe that all those involved in the work of the Social-Economic Council must not have a material compensation for participating in the work of the Social-Economic Council, which is not small and which is moving around around 50,000 dinars. So these are union and employers who are already receiving salaries somewhere. In this situation of general savings, in the position of workers we only have 300,000 people today who receive minimum income. So we have to show some solidarity and our example. On the other hand, on the basis of participation in the work of the Social-Economic Council or membership in various supervisory committees, I think it is entirely inappropriate to receive compensation from the supervisory committees based on membership in the Social-Economic Council. First, I'm interested in what you think about these proposals, and then I'm interested in your position on the Labour Law, or the SPS position, and will it be possible for the law to enter the Assembly without the public debate being conducted?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30897	The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30898	These suggestions you made should be considered. I don't know if anyone's receiving compensation or not, the government's representatives are certainly not receiving it. That's one question. On the other hand, all these things that concern certain privileges that union officials have are reality. I know that in my ministry, too. There are always some. Every official is in some way a functioner, any organization. That's not the most important question right now. It is important that the question you were talking about earlier, which is how to determine representativeness, conduct social dialogue. When it comes to party attitude, the law, I must say, we have not yet come to that level to discuss it. At the cabinet session, we had several drafts of different laws, but the Labour Act did not reach that level. The consultations are being held. It is very important, it is very important, once again, to find a compromise, dialogue to come up with an agreement that will suit both the work world and those representing employers, whether it is domestic or foreign investors. I'm just going to give you one example where I think it's some kind of illogical thing that exists. It is not our goal to impose impossible conditions on the Labour Act to function. I'll give you an example of the Ministry of the Interior. You know it's the Ministry of Power, or the use of weapons, etc. It happens that during psychological examinations, medical examinations of a police officer are found to have a certain psychological disorder and that he can no longer carry a weapon. That doesn't mean he can be practically fired from work. That doesn't mean he can find another job. He stays in that unit just doesn't carry a weapon. It's practically unsustainable. But whatever you do, the court makes a different decision and goes back to re-determining. It's just the kind of thing they have to deal with. I have no intention of having any demands right now, I don't know any foreign investors or the IMF, so now that you know what the subject is, the subject is this kind of possibility that when someone can leave, how severances are given, do severances count since he's been employed or since he's been working in that company? What, when you look logically, they're right about each other. What would someone pay for the severances and for those who worked in another company before? That's the subject. How one can be declared a technological surplus or how this social program is implemented. That's the darkness. It's not something special, spectacular, so let's say there's a big spear breaking around it right now. I need to talk to you. I agree that we need to find an adequate way to conduct the debate. The current situation is not good because the public debate has been suspended, and Minister Krkobbic, or Deputy Prime Minister Krkobic, told me that they have suspended the public debate because there are indeed incidents and this means that in order to prevent the adoption of this law, some union group, I do not know, or organisations, or factions or entire alliances, organise some protests. On the other hand, it's probably because the two ministries have made different versions. It is not well-led and prepared, so the two unions that have been representative have decided not to participate in this way anymore. The Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Vukic, was also, when he was visiting the union and we agreed all together, when I received unions to try to somehow come up with a solution that would not be a conflict solution in society. Politics is the skill of finding a deal, not the challenge of conflict. So I accept what you've said and we'll try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30899	The word is made by the People's Messenger Jelena Travar Miljević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30900	Thank you. I will ask my question to the Prime Minister with one deep regret that we no longer have direct television transmission, but I believe the citizens will hear my question, and your answer. My question concerns procedures for the exercise of the right to compensation for pregnant women and maternity mothers. What I'm really worried about is a lot of bureaucratic problems. I believe my colleagues may not be overly interested in maternity and maternity leave and compensation on that occasion, but I would ask all my colleagues to let me exercise my parliamentary right and ask a question. When we talk about being pregnant and making up for it, I would point to a number of bureaucratic problems that pregnant women face, but also employers themselves. To better address everyone’s problem, I will set a simple example. If a pregnant woman goes to a pregnant and single employer for five months, and a pregnant woman should also visit the RFZO counter five times and submit 36 documents with 43 different sheets of paper during that period. When it comes to maternity care, I will stress that the situation is no better. This is the case when 86 sheets of paper of different documentation are submitted. Knowing that it is for all of us to create a better business environment, that it is for all of us to solve citizens' problems and achieve basic rights, I ask when and what does the Government intend to do to simplify these procedures? This question may not be too interesting for everyone, but it is certainly something that means life and something that our citizens are facing. I don't want to talk about what it means to employers when they need to deliver one of those same documents multiple times to several different state bodies and institutions. I know and believe that there is a very simple solution for this problem that neither citizens nor states nor taxpayers should cost any additional money from the budget, even more so that solution should offer more money in the budget, greater savings and probably create more jobs, but also protection of basic human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30901	The word has a Minister Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30902	Unfortunately, I can't answer this question too specifically because I don't have all that information. It also belongs to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And there's the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance. What I can only say is that our task in the coming years, apart from what we are saying to the political sky, which means the EU, European integration, economics, is certainly an increase in the birth rate, i.e. the natural growth of our people and our country and all citizens in general. Of course, it can't be without this whole thing that you were just talking about. This means without increased concern of the entire state and society, from different incentives, benefits to simplifying procedures and everything else you mentioned. I would ask you to submit this question to the more adequate ministries to answer you in the most concrete sense, what can be done in terms of simplifying the procedure. I would also ask the finance minister to think about the IMF and other financial institutions in the budget about how to encourage the birth of more children in Serbia. If we do not, no one will help us, because in 300 years Serbia will simply come into a situation to die itself. Forty thousand children are born a year less than people die in Serbia. This trend is getting bigger and bigger, or worse and worse from decade to decade. He's got to come up with something. Nothing's expensive considering the price we'll all pay for it. The natural growth 50 years ago was that we had 100,000 more children born than there were dead. Now we have 40,000 less. If it goes on like that, and there's that kind of information. The professor is one of the few people who reads books, so I thank him. This is the statistics of the RS statistical calendar from the Republic Bureau of Statistics. This is a shortened version of a major review that they've done, where there are great analysts and statistics for various areas, among other things, on the issue of natural growth. Unfortunately for us, as I said, that natural growth is minus 4.8% per thousand inhabitants. Now that's a question that's important to say, when I've already received this data, that's what I said to the IMF mission when they came to us, because there's a huge demand to extend the number of years needed to retire and that's European tendency. But there is one great disparity in the way and duration of life in the west and here in Serbia. See what, the average century, the expected life expectancy of a man, for example. in Austria, it is 77 years and in Serbia 71 years. We men are sorry, but what to do. The expected life of women in Austria is 83 years and in Serbia 76 years. So for five years, women are expected to live longer than we do. I mean, it's impossible for us to overwrite the rules blindly because someone can't work so long that it's just... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... That naturally can't take it anymore. I appreciate you even starting this topic. In the general flood of political topics, it is rare that we are dealing with this issue, and therefore what we expect to move our entire society to reform, in the course of talks and negotiations with the EU on specific topics, we should try to make as much consensus as possible on important issues. The theme number one is certainly natality, or demographics. (President: Time. ) I hope that ministers who have not yet worked on this will have enough time to show their commitment to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30903	National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30904	Dear Prime Minister, I thank you for your reply. I have to tell you, I've started to do politics because of these kinds of issues. I began to deal with politics because I came from the municipality of Zitiste, which in the last two rounds lost 15% of the population, and as someone who comes from a political party that mainly offers solutions, I will propose one solution for all, does not cost a budget, not a basket of taxpayers, and it concerns only more direct communication from state authorities. The second thing that can be done without money, and in order to solve this problem, is to amend and supplement the Regulation on closer conditions and how to exercise the right to support the family financially with children, which is under the authority of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30905	National MP Slobodan Samardzic. I'm asking my colleagues to listen. In agreement with members of the government, I decided to extend the session for a few minutes so that all representatives of the opposition's political parties would have the opportunity to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30906	Dear members of the government, I would like to ask my question to the Prime Minister. Serbia got a date. One thing that was celebrated for the second time this year 2013, for the first time on June 28th, and now on December 20th with a lot of insanity and immodest, unfounded celebrations with heavy words, large words that this is a historic date and a historic event, it is absurd that this is a historic thing for the government because in Serbia's history it will remain remembered for this – a condition and a provision for this date is a lecture on Kosovo. Teaching Kosovo is not a formal condition of the EU, nor a written condition. It is something that the EU has been hiding under the grains and hinting at the governments of Serbia even earlier and finding a foothold for such a policy in the SAA. So in that title that speaks of good neighbourly relations, Kosovo has joined that category of neighbouring Serbia and thus included it in the obligation to make good neighbourly relations with Kosovo as well. After that, the thing was translated into normalising relations with Kosovo. So this is exactly the issue of informal, unwritten conditions for starting talks on Serbia's EU accession. I want to draw attention to the fact that there are a lot of points on the Brussels list of these unwritten conditions, that Kosovo is not alone and that is exactly what I want to ask a question about. Namely, the EU is not satisfied with the Constitution of Serbia, not satisfied with the position of Vojvodina, especially with its constitutional position. It is very likely that such an unwritten issue will soon be raised before Serbia. So, not to adapt the Statute of the Vojvodina Constitution to Serbia, but vice versa, to change Serbia's constitution, so that this level of autonomy, which is constitutionally contradictory, is maintained. Then, the EU will insist that Serbia develops very intense Euro-Atlantic relations, that one day join NATO, stop its South Stream treaty... (President: Time. ) Please, Mr. Chairman, I started 30 seconds earlier and I'm asking you to make it up to me. I started later just to ask a question. So there's a lot of examples like that. Croatia's privileged position in the tobacco trade with Serbia and many other things. I am actually interested in the question here - does the Serbian Government, given these facts that I have mentioned, and this is the list of non-existent conditions or formally unwritten conditions, whether the Serbian Government has any idea of drawing a line, of withdrawing the patience of these conditions that actually make Serbia grow weaker, shorter and smaller in its EU accession process? (President: Mr Samardzic, you've already passed the fourth minute.) To give others a chance, I beg you, you will have an opportunity to ask further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30907	Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30908	What is contained in the EU's negotiating framework is published on our negotiating team's website. The EU's negotiating framework is not a public document, not because it is a secret, but because it has not been a practice so far. The state he's negotiating with is to decide what he's going to do with it. It's not a document on which we give consent when we bring it in. The first intergovernmental conference is an event where the EU presents its negotiating framework, and Serbia has its own opinion on what is contained in the negotiating framework. What you mentioned as some additional conditions, it was not at all the subject of any conversation, in terms of further conditions for Serbia. Will there be any further conditioning? It's not supposed to say that anywhere. All the countries have gone through it. On the other hand, Serbia is specific in that our main political criterion is related to normalising relations with Pristina, dialogue with Pristina, and this key political criterion continues to be maintained through Chapter 35. So the negotiation process can be stopped at any moment unless it goes in the direction of progress in chapters 23, 24 and 35. It's all like that. On the other hand, Serbia has never promised or told anyone that it will change its position on the status issue when it comes to KIM. We will never, not that we won't do it, but we will not give anyone else the encouragement to do it or have to do it, as there have been some words about the place in the UN, that Serbia allegedly won't object, but will tell many of its friends that it does. That's not true. Serbia does not change its position on the status issue, but the issue of normalising life and relations with Pristina is something that awaits us in everyday life. The lecture on Kosovo was neither a condition nor a consequence of the Brussels Agreement and a date for starting accession negotiations. And was it and was it a historical event? Yes, it is. Why? Because when Serbia enters the EU, it will always be mentioned when the negotiations begin. On the other hand, I'm glad we somehow managed to come to terms with those ideas that you stood up for 12, 13, 14, only you didn't make it happen. What do we do? And you were on the billboards talking about how doable it was. Here, it is doable. It's no longer a political lie before each election. We'll get visa liberalisation, we'll join the EU. Europe and the EU today are not just a fairy tale, and now it will depend on us how quickly we will do it. Is she just? Is this world just where we live? Are all the events in this world just? Still, we still believe in God. Therefore, even though it is an unfair international community, we do not know what else we could believe in. In isolation, poverty continues to ruin Serbia, certainly not. In an imaginary partnership somewhere in the east where no one calls us, certainly not. People need to be told the truth. Either Serbia will join the EU or Albania will indeed be west for it in 10 years. (President: Time. I'm not saying this, actually, I'm saying this, and if there's no transmission, I'm not saying this for transmission. I'm saying this to convince you. Whether there's a transmission or no transmission, I really don't know. I'm sorry, Mr. President, just one more sentence. I asked the President of the National Assembly on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to make a change, or if you want to make a deal, we are ready all day to answer your questions, not just this afternoon. So I'm absolutely okay with it, so it doesn't turn out that someone doesn't have a right. On the other hand, neither can I answer in two or five minutes on perhaps some very serious political issues and we have no reason to be afraid of it and to be ashamed of it. If you have space in your busy Rules of Procedure and if you have time to devote yourself all day to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are here to please you in this desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30909	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30910	Mr. Prime Minister, there is no office website, nor on the EU site today's negotiating framework. He's still a secret document. The other hand, the media found out that the main item in the framework of our interest is actually an explicit requirement for Serbia to sign a binding legal document with Kosovo. I don't know if that's the reason for that secrecy, but that's the way it is. Therefore, we will see what it says here, but it is a fact that Serbia is on track to finish the job of handing over Kosovo. It is this document that is the finale and de jure confessions, if so far we have de facto recognised them, we will recognise them and de jure them and it is written in this negotiating framework, on its own chance. I would remind you that today's adviser, Guzenbauer, said that Serbia and Kosovo will eventually establish normal relations. You see, he is not an Austrian adviser, although he has a German last name, he is an adviser to the Serbian government or someone in the Serbian government. These are the facts, as long as you want and we can run the game for a very long time whether Serbia has confessed or not, we can get high, but it really doesn't matter. Everyone knows it's a condition. This is a condition that the government has achieved more or less, plus the binding document that will one day sign to advance in those negotiations. But about that, since there's a topic on the agenda about other conditions that I started when I started speaking, I have another question for you. In fact, a discussion about the Law on the Finance of Vojvodina developed here a little while, so the finance minister said - it is impossible to pass the law because there are no powers of the Vojvodina in the legal form. The question for the government is - why has the Government not so far made a bill on the powers of the Vojvodina? A year and a half ago, in May 2012, the Serbian Constitutional Court repealed 22 provisions of the existing law and the government was tasked with making the law. In fact, the law would allow the law to be signed immediately, and then the financing law. Why am I saying that now? Because it is a test for the government - will at this point make that law and make both the law and the statute agreed by the Constitution, or will it wait six months? My suspicion is that the government is not doing this because it is afraid of EU reactions, and this is a special proof for this thesis of conditions that are not written, which are floating in the air, which are quite clear to you. You are not doing the work you need to do to regulate the legal and constitutional status of Vojvodina, precisely because you are taking care of what they say and think about certain EU Member States, which are extremely interested in the issue of enormous autonomy of Vojvodina.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30911	The word is Mr. Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30912	I must say, no one has ever asked me about the Duke's question in Brussels. So, please, don't keep these conspiracy theories spreading. We've got enough of our internal problems to talk about now. So, it wasn't at all about talking about Vojvodina's autonomy. On the other hand, of course we need to make these laws and we've created a task force that should do it. There's a solution to everything. Let's just not make up anything that's not true. So, the Constitution of Serbia was not a topic, and it was not a topic either of Vojvodina or of NATO. No one has ever mentioned NATO. As far as the South Stream is concerned, we are not the main country that matters to the South Stream. The South Stream cannot pass through Serbia alone, it must pass through other EU countries as well. It will surely be decided by much greater, stronger and more powerful people than we are. As agreed to exist in Europe, the North Stream will agree that there is a South Stream, if it is in their interest. Unfortunately, we're not the ones who determine what their interest is. I don't want to answer any more questions, so I don't get any more replicas for the sake of time. But once again, I do not run away from it to be thematic sessions of the congregation. I don't know how it's defined anymore, but there's no such thing as running away from. Let's schedule a session that is dedicated to this issue and I am absolutely agreed to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30913	We'll try to find a model according to the Rules of Procedure and arrange one such session. We'll sit down and discuss what would best suit all MP groups. Thanks for the offer, that's really correct. The word is Mr. Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30914	A Serbian government in today's situation, when taken away from it by the EU, should be much more cautious, more sensitive to hints and signs. Of course they won't tell you explicitly, nor will it be written anywhere. As you are told hypocritically – you do not have to recognise Kosovo. At least not now. Right? You'll admit it eventually. That's the snake that bit us and made us afraid of lizards. You've got as many hints as you want. I'll give you one for the Duke. You say they didn't ask a question. You know, the European Commission's 2010 report praised the Statute of Vojvodina. He said it was good that he was brought and that he was who he was. It was already known that the statute was not in accordance with the Constitution, because at the end of 2009, the DSS already submitted a proposal to the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutionality of the statute, as well as the constitutionality of the law. These are the cautions of a state that is damaged by that relationship, territorially, materially, morally, whatever you want. You can't act like Austria when it joined the EU in 1995. No one asked her about any part of her territory. That's what I'm talking about. So the government must be sensitive and cautious. Why? So that one day, the opportunity to join the EU would not only have Belgrade's pasture. We must act in this way, given how they treated Serbia. This is the caution that the government of Vojislav Kostunica has shown since 2004 to 2008. There was something that managed this government, no matter how close she worked with Brussels. Today, all the singing society that is joyfully entering the EU, and who will enter, when it enters, how much it will cost, it doesn't matter at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30915	The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30916	President-in-Office of the Assembly, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, honourable Members of the People, I address you as a National MP from Kosovo and Metohija. We Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija with special attention, chills and tensions have followed and followed the process of negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija. For us, it's a fateful and life-threatening question. On this occasion, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are giving full support to state leadership for unity, political consensus and historical responsibility in the fight that leads to the preservation of the national and state interests of the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. If that were the case, local elections in Kosovo and Metohija showed. For the first time, the Serbian people have chosen their representatives and given full support to the government of the Republic of Serbia and state leadership. That is why getting a date for starting negotiations is in the interest of all citizens of the Serbian state. Mr. Prime Minister, we are giving you and the first Deputy Prime Minister special support because we are sure of you and we are confident that you will protect state and national interests, not narrow political or personal interests. We are aware of the irrefutable fact that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is not only yesterday's, nor today's, but also tomorrow's and concerns all citizens of the Serbian state. It's a process that will last. The inexorable arguments are that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija is difficult, complex and that the negotiations were not easy or simple at all, but that the whole state summit is exposed to a number of pressures from different sides and in different ways. Despite all this, you managed to get a date for the negotiations, which the governments so far have failed. That is why we Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija are fully aware of the situation we have found ourselves in, in what political, economic and any other state we are in. We can't say it's perfect, it's ideal, it's good, but with your wisdom and insight, you chose what's necessary and what's real at a given moment. That is why getting a date for negotiations is a major result, in which both Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija contributed. To be precise right away, the greatest achievement of the Brussels Agreement is the formation of a community of Serb municipalities. The Brussels agreement provides for Serb municipalities communities to have full control over urbanism, planning, economic development, health and education. That is why it was also important for Serbs to go to local elections. This ensures that Serbs decide their own fate. Of these powers and the composition of people who will form a community of Serb municipalities, we can make a very serious institution that will take care of the most important elements of every Serb in Kosovo and Metohija, which should provide us with judicial and security independence, the ability to manage and edit our lives on our own, start from building houses, to own safety, school system and treatment. My questions are next. (President: Time. ) My first question is – when is the formation of a Serb community expected? Two -- how will the effective functioning of the Serb municipalities community and the coordination of institutions in different relations be ensured, and above all in Cosmet, then between the Serb municipalities community and our authorities in Belgrade and between the Serb municipalities community and temporary authorities in Pristina? Under three -- how will transparency of the financing of the Serb municipalities community be ensured? (President: Time. Just one more sentence. In the end, we highly appreciate everything you have done in the negotiations so far, and we wish you success in order to preserve Serbia's national and state interests. The daily direct communication of government representatives with representatives of Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, as well as the departure of the first vice-president of the government for Christmas to Kosovo and Metohija, support our duration, survival and existence in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30917	The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30918	I also want to thank the Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija who are very responsible for the positive decision of the European Council on the start of negotiations on Serbia's EU accession. Had it not been for them to understand this intensities that it is important to go this way to defend our national and national interests, surely that this decision would not have been positive. Be assured that we will continue to take care of us, Serbia, the Serbian people and all citizens living in Kosovo and Metohija, choosing the best way to protect their interests. In this sense, the community of Serb municipalities and the elected Assembly of municipalities are the only legal ones and I could say, the first legitimate, legal authorities of a Serbian government in Kosovo and Metohija after an armed intervention in 1999. We will continue negotiations and dialogue in this regard must be fought for a good statute for the Serb community, and I hope this will be a good way to resuscitate the institutions of Serbia through the institutions of the Serb municipalities community. I thank you for this comment, and I want to promise on behalf of the Government that our negotiating team will continue to have, above all, people coming from both Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30919	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30920	I think Mr. Prime Minister, the honourable fellow MPs, despite everything we've heard today, and we've heard a lot and I think there may have been too much laughter at some point, I told you that Mr. President. Just a few observations in that sense. I think the state is much more important than the gig, and I think the state means, above all, when it looks at the auditorium, including the representatives of the embassy who are and how interested in that outcome, the last thing they want to see is a minor circus play here, because it speaks badly of us as Serbia. It's a story of hockey, and the rest are very harmful. Otherwise, I have to say, here's Minister Mihajlovic, and I'm glad he's here, we've had all kinds of disagreements in the past and about the energy agreement, and for NIS, I see that there are still big problems with "Serbiagas", but the fact is that the previous government and her before her, and she left this government with something that made it possible for them to weld pipes in Shajkash. Mr. Dacic, you left us the Hague tribunal, so we had to digest something else. Otherwise, today Serbia, I ask you, to return a little subject to what citizens are most interested in. It's their ruined living standards and economies that are in very bad shape. We had an announcement of 10 billion euros in investment. So what do you think by the end of the year, how many days is it, like five, six days to reach these 10 billion that were promised? We've got a deal with the Emirs. I ask you as Prime Minister why the government has persistently refused to publish a contract with the "Etihad" that we are looking for without success in writing by addressing Mr. Sabic, and now the court. Because your government doesn't want to publish that contract. Is there even a contract, and if there's a turn it was to let the public see what it says inside. I don't think there's anything wrong, I just think it's time for citizens of Serbia not DS, but for citizens to see what's in there. Otherwise, no new investment has come to Serbia since announced investments from the Arab Emirates, except hotels in Kopalnik. When Al Dahra comes to what amount, what is investment and what is credit? How much is the loan and under what conditions? When Serbian peasants will see these irrigation systems and therefore, what will happen to the announced two or three billion dollars from the United Arab Emirates, Mubadal and other things that have happened. Will we be able to hear specifically about each of the controversial privatisations of what was contentious in it? The name and name of the guilty party for the wrong privatisations, no matter what party they're from? Is this going to have repercussions, I ask you, Mrs. Mihajlovic, since you are present on behalf of the strongest party, in the position of certain members of your party, for example, Mr. Minister Mirovic and Mrs. Maja Gojkovic? Will Mr. Vukic's promise be fulfilled that soon a member of the SNS from the General Committee will be arrested, a pardon from the presidency. So I really expect you to try to give us an answer, to hear who this traitor you thought was, Mrs. Mihajlovic, who is the minister working against the state of Serbia, is now a good opportunity to tell us? To try to hear from the prime minister what are the measures that will stop six hundred unemployed every day in Serbia, and how do you think you can hire this country without development?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30921	The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30922	As a representative of the strongest party, as you said, and everything the president of our party said and everything we promised, we keep it. So if we're talking about 24 controversial privatisations, I think you were present, if you weren't, I assume your colleagues told you. So, by Sunday, there'll be all the information in public. As is usually the case, and as Aleksandar Vukic does, a press conference will be open where the Serbian public will learn everything that has happened in 24 controversial privatisations and what investigative actions have been done. I assume you heard that, too. It's about this and everything else this government does. I don't like going back to the previous period before this government was formed. We are making every effort to get the country we have found in a difficult economic, social crisis out of these problems. In addition to the political upheaval and courage that this government has made, which none of the previous could, boldly or in any way, this government has done. Now we have serious economic cuts to make. It was not the problem of "Srbigas" that occurred yesterday or in a year, it has been growing for years. The EPS's problem came yesterday or in a year, a year and a half, it came into existence for the past ten years. It was not the problems of the restructuring business that arose over the past year and a half, but it had been emerging for years and we are a country that unfortunately has enterprises in restructuring all these years. So, there have been a lot of problems before this government, but as we have solved problems in 2013, I believe this year 2014 will really be a reform year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30923	Mr. Stefanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30924	Thank you. Madam Minister, of course we have heard the announcement of 24 privatisations, do not blame me or the citizens of Serbia for sharing with you a general impression in Serbia, that unfortunately from your government we only listen to announcements. So my skepticism isn't natural, it's just experienced knowing that Mr. Vukic here would say – if not until New Year's, then we'll say what we're going to do next on New Year's Eve. We've heard that the investigations have been completed, and I'm asking you if the investigations include a certain Mr. Milan Lukic, who you've given a post in something called the Council for Public Enterprises or something and who is one of the main indictees in privatising number 14 of Kanjiž's companies? I asked you two specific examples from your party and you didn't answer. You didn't even answer who was a traitor in the government. You didn't answer me, you kept avoiding telling me, and I think it's important who the minister who was setting up his friend's job is. I think the public should hear that. So that's what we can't hear the answer to. We'll be in charge of over 11.5 billion euros by the end of next year. That's what your government did. We have 600 new unemployed a day, Madam Minister. I know your answer is in a decent way, in a moderate way, but your answer is always the same. It's all been done for years, it's your fault, it's these before you, that people don't care. We're interested, not us, citizens, which is your result. You promised to cut the power by 20%. Did the electricity drop? You said you kept all your promises. You don't have that office for quick answers. You have an office to quickly close the media in Serbia. You have an office to destroy media freedoms. You have an office for one opinion in Serbia. That's what you seem to have done to me until the end of your life. So, what will the debts be used for? How exactly are you going to open a factory in this country, not just by trying to get investors, obviously you're not doing it because it's about 300 million? What will you do in the end with “Serbiagas”? What are you going to do with the price of electricity? What are you going to do with the 30,000 to 50,000 party soldiers you've shoved into public enterprises? And then you get a lease and then you hire them overnight in Novi Sad. Do you know that counsellors work in New Sad public enterprises? Is it normal and does it exist in one state? I'm done. Is there in one country, Mr. Prime Minister, that when you say one sentence, Mr. Vukic must say five at once? When he says the sixth sentence, you have seven sentences and you race here every day and the citizens of Serbia look at you waiting for it to happen I don't know what. Meanwhile, there is less freedom in the country and more violence. You know what's going on in the streets and what's going on with the police. (President: Time. I think it's time for these things to be answered, not for people to laugh and have fun here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30925	The word has Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30926	When I listen to you, I simply wonder if I live in Serbia. Let's start with that party job first. Do I have to say that during your Director, Director of the DS, the EPS hired, I said that at one of the sessions, right here we spoke to the representatives of 3800 members, so Director Markovic, I think he was the previous CEO of the EPS. Do I need to ask you from the DS that you ran companies, or Ada Ciganli, where there are less than 30 people who are constantly employed? Do you know how many contracts there are, how many contracts we found? We've found 95 objections. You know who hired them? Director Ade. You know who he is? It's from the DS. Now you said 10 or 20 grand, how much did you say that the SNS allegedly hired public enterprises? That's not true. During this government, the Law on Public Enterprises was passed. The law on public undertakings provides for the existence of a supervisory board, but also a competition for directors of public enterprises. If anyone stands for it, then the SNS stands for it. If someone's keeping an eye on what these people are doing, then that's what we do. If someone controls how things are done in public enterprises, then that's what we do anyway. I can't understand you even saying that here. Secondly, you've mentioned the Emirates, the contracts and everything that's been done, at least this government has shown it, is available to the public. One more thing, if we talked about irrigation, about agriculture, 100 million dollars as I just heard from the Deputy Prime Minister today, it's already split up and we're moving on. Therefore, you cannot say that nothing has been done. I don't know exactly who said 10 billion euros in investment, but I'm going to tell you there's a contract signed for the Costolac for 300 megawatts. It's supposed to be built in 2014. Also, for the first time, why during your reign was not some public invitation to build small hydropower plants, why did your government not call those public invitations to come and report nicely, to get their locations, not to negotiate it within the government between ministers, etc. About this transparency and transparency, I wouldn't agree with you very much if you were absolutely right. About the fact that nothing's been done and that it's just in the announcements, you're just wrong. About 180 indictments we've heard have been filed over the past year and a half, probably more, because this is data from a few months ago, and you can't say that nothing happened. During your government, as far as I know, two or three investigations have only been conducted. You didn't have any system to fight crime and corruption, you didn't even have a strategy, you didn't do it, you didn't care, because it didn't suit your party or your people. I kind of feel like everything you're saying is more here to explain and get some point, truly with the facts. Show me the facts, where the 20,000 people SNS hired are. I'm telling you the fact about Ada Ciganlia, 95 contracts of work, and less than 30 permanent employees and so on in every company. That's what you did in the previous period. Therefore, these party companies we have inherited from you, and they will no longer be party companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30927	Mr. Dacic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30928	Let me say, before Mr Stefanovic concludes, I think it's very difficult to discuss in this way, casually, without objective data, without statistics, the criteria you're talking about, because now it turns out that we need to understand every topic that you bring out what investments are, what is the rate. Each of us here could also find counter arguments and measure how much it was in a certain time, a period backwards. We all know that the situation in which Serbia finds itself difficult in economic, political, every other sense and we all know that results have been achieved, visible. We can argue where they're visible. They are visible, above all, in the positioning of our country and its position currently in the international community. Will there be a halt in unemployment? He's already stopped, but I'll remind you that in the five years since the economic crisis broke out, nearly 300 thousand people have lost their jobs, not round 300, but almost 300 thousand people. Also, foreign debt also rose from 29% to 59% or 60% in that period, and some say 62% of "JI-BI-DI". The consensus is that we should not continue to be in debt, but it is not easy and easy, because you have to provide money for the deficit, for covering the deficits and for those investment loans that we have estimated have to work for, and the minister mentioned one of those, such as the "Costolac" project, which is worth $700m this second phase, so you have the Ljig-Obrenovac highway that has now started. It can't work for the economy and the state without a certain investment loan. Is it even who's more guilty? It's already a matter of political debate. What certainly isn't the intensity of this government is to prevent that debate. In this country, everyone is free to speak their mind. We can discuss any topic, discuss each topic, explain the arguments of statistics and propose solutions. What I can say is that there's no secret about any of the contracts that you've been talking about, a contract with Etyhad, I don't know whether it's a secret or not, because it's never been set up in such a way, in a government session, because it's not counted to be a secret. It may be as with Gazprom, some parts of that contract may be a secret, but given that you have raised a series of questions, Mr Stefanovic, you have probably launched them at all without any answer. I propose and ask the service to deliver what Mr Stefanovic said to the competent ministries and to provide him with an answer to what he was saying. Anything else I can say is that politics, propaganda, demagogy, or not yours or mine, anyone's, but all of us, and data is data. It's not good, and I don't think it's good for us to speak ill of ourselves, or the government in opposition, or the opposition in power, especially if we use such hard words. That's why I'd like to ask that if you have any of these specific topics to discuss. I have already asked the President of Parliament, we are absolutely ready to discuss every topic, as we have discussed about Kosovo, as we have discussed the Brussels Agreement. There is no topic that makes us not want to schedule a session, and it doesn't have to be a session of parliament. I accept, that's what I was saying and last time, Cedomir Jovanovic sent a letter to me, where he asked us to talk to all parties about key topics. We don't mind. The only thing I can't accept is that the government, this Serbian government, whether you mean me or Mr. Vukic, is that it doesn't matter. I can't say right now, I'm happy because you're not thinking about me, you're thinking about him, or he's saying you're not thinking about me right now, you're thinking about him. We are together in this government and together we have achieved, I think, a very significant result for Serbia, which is that Serbia is spoken well in the places where it is decided in the world today. Our next goal is to speak well of Serbia and we here in Serbia. I'm really inviting you to do that. That Mr. President extended, I did not insist that today's session be extended, but I told him that we are ready to come whenever you think we should, but given that Mr. Stefanovic will also respond, now to continue again, I will no longer react. There's more, I think Mr. Shormaz is up, and we're slowly finishing up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30929	Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30930	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am deeply disturbed as a minister in this government when the first word to be spoken says nothing has happened. As Minister of Construction and Urbanism in 2013 I signed building permits that were completely closed financially, 100 per cent closed, for three billion euros. So, gentlemen, you can come to the government and see the project for the project that's been taken. Only one project in the municipality of Milanovac and Ljig employs 2,000 people to build corridors. Now there will be 3,000 people on this second section. Please don't do anything. Here come, look, three billion euros, 100 percent of the financial closure. It's not credit. These are a variety of investments in other ways and a common IP, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30931	Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30932	Thank you, Mr. President, for giving us more time as MPs to ask questions. I have to say, Mr. Dacic, when she talks about stopping she talks about you, she doesn't talk about the U.S.S. She's speaking publicly about the SPS. So that problem does not make up the opposition. We did not say that there is a minister in the government who works against Serbia who is setting up an attachment to his jobs. That's what the minister said sitting a foot away from you. And he doesn't want to answer any more. Imagine that. By the way, during our government, the number of employees in public enterprises has been reduced by 10%. We are the first government in Serbia to introduce the moratorium to such a thing. Unfortunately, you're bad repeaters. By the way, the jobs you mentioned for Ada Ciganli are seasonal affairs. You know the difference between that? You know. So tell me, here's if there's a minister of agriculture, maybe he can explain to you what seasonal affairs are. You're asking for directors. Why didn't you appoint the directors? Why are you discussing the directors at your central country administration? Why? Not you personally. I know you're a deviation. But why is it that your party is discussing the directors of public enterprises instead of respecting the law you admire? You choose those directors. So where are your directors at the competition? You don't respect your laws, gentlemen. I think in the papers and the SNS presidency, unfortunately, of course, when the president of your party makes a decision, all the key decisions on this country are made. You're proud of it. In Europe everyone is ashamed of who cares about democracy and freedom. And you, even though you think I'm getting it from this side right now. They don't know what it is. Well, I know you'd teach us what it is. But you'll be a little harder to do, and you won't break that nut, gentlemen. That's it. It's not a "white source" for you, Mr. Babic. This is not a "white source" to throw at you. You know, there are more journalists outside your headquarters than there are in front of the government. Mr. Dacic, I don't think you've heard a single bad word, you haven't heard a single word, and I think objectively you, as Prime Minister, should, even though I know you already have, be concerned. To worry about what's going on with this country and what's going on with this government and how you think you get out of this crisis that makes people sitting next to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30933	Mr. Shormaz, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30934	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, Mr. Dacic, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first I want to apologize for the bad tone, but I was rooting for our handmaids that day and since then somehow holding my throat. I want to ask two questions in these three minutes, seeing as some of them are nervous. Let's speed up the work. The Honorable Secretary of Defense, Mr Rodic. First I want to say something, that we all need to ask ourselves here after what we've been through in the '90s, what does it really cost us more? Does it cost us more to invest in defense or not to invest in defense? I have always been in favour of investing in defence, in the Army of the Republic of Serbia, in our defence system, more than we do now. Even as an MP, I have made amendments in trying to correct that balance, and I think we should do so in the next period. Because when our citizens are safe then they can normally take care of their families, their jobs and normally lead their lives. The importance of investment in Serbia's military is therefore immeasurable, as well as the importance of investing in the dedicated industry as an economic branch in Serbia. International co-operation is also important. I think the '90s also taught us that isolation isn't good. I am surprised by those who are always talking about how Serbia is enough for itself, and in fact we should work within the UN within a day of the EU, and now we are working with the EU, the NATO Pact, to develop bilateral relations, to develop parliamentary democracy, parliamentary diplomacy. That's why I'm asking two questions, because I know the minister will clarify that, because of some of the issues that have arisen in public. What does it mean for the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence to sign an agreement with the European Defence Agency? The second question – why is the ministry increasing the number of soldiers from next year to voluntary military service? So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30935	You must report to the Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30936	First, on Friday, December 13th in Brussels, we signed an administrative agreement on the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence and the European Defence Agency. The first vice-president of the EU Council and who is the High Representative for Foreign Policy, but also the security policy of Mrs Ashton. It is about a document that was finalised after an activity started in April 2011. This is one project that, to my insistence, was to be completed by the end of 2013, for the simple reason that the European Defence Agency has had its different organisation and its different structure since January 2014. The Serbian government has accepted such an explanation and we have waited since October to administratively determine the moment when the act of signing and defining relations, which exist between the defence ministry and the European Defence Agency, will thus be regulated. It is important to know that the European Defence Agency is an association of EU countries, except for the Kingdom of Denmark, the only one is not there. What is very important, Mr. MP, is what you asked, 180 billion euros were transported to the EU this year in the defence sector, 180 billion. Of that, 60% went to pay off profits and maintain martial law, and 40% went to the defense industry. This is huge money and Serbia simply couldn't stay out of it, which Europe started working in 2004. We have now implemented ourselves in this whole process and we can have certain benefits, which I, at last Saturday's meeting with all the directors of dedicated enterprises in Serbia, have pointed out, we will be able to buy more cheaply what we need for the military, but we will be able to sell more expensively what our dedicated industry is doing. I must say that it is not sufficient for us to export to the EU today our products to the dedicated industry. Belgium is one of the serious customers of our products, and it is usually thought to go to some conflicting areas and conflict zones, and in fact a large part of the customers are just coming from the EU. What do we get? Development of defence capabilities in crisis management. This is the essence of crisis management, as the first vice-president of the EU Council once a year, since it is also responsible for the European Defence Agency, reports. It points to jobs that are managed by the crisis within Europe: the expansion and improvement of co-operation in the area of arms, the strengthening of the European defence technology base and the formation of the European military equipment market, the European market insists on the development of European research and technology. In a few days, the European Defence Agency will have three operational directorates. It is planning and supporting, the ability of weapons and technology, European synergy and innovation. We will be able to host Mrs. Claude Frans Arno here in Serbia, who is the Executive Director of the European Defence Agency. She'll come to us sometime in February. I think we have a benefit that it's one of the jobs that the previous administration and the Ministry of Defence started with good connections and interest, which is primarily in the function of the military, which is our dedicated industry. This should result in a certain benefit that I consider to be certain in the second half of the following year. As far as your second question is concerned, somehow three years ago, I think about 15 December 2010, this assembly made a decision that temporarily suspended military service. It began to apply from 1 January 2011, and then the military obligation was regulated exclusively on the principle of volunteering. In 2011, the system could receive 500 people, and we had almost double in March 2011 in order to have three times as many in September. We had 1514 reported, and 517 we could hire. What's our intensity? That next year we have, instead of 1,000, 1800. Why? It's the cheapest way to reach professional military personnel. That's what countries do in the environment. We believe that this is the path that brings us savings in the training of professional members of the army. What I ask you, there is the Minister of Education, I told him, are extraordinary experiences, given the reform and education in the military that Western European countries have applied in secondary education. We have the Netherlands that has provided the entire system of its army with a way that in a regular cycle of secondary education, there are sections that are designed for the needs of the royal army. Otherwise, right now, a large number of very wealthy countries in Europe have professional military service, which is simply amazing, and Norway, and Denmark, and Finland, and Switzerland, and Austria, and Greece. They're rich countries, but they still kept professionals.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-12-26-0.u30937	Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response, but our time is up. Since no one wants to ask a parliamentary question anymore, we are finishing work in the session on parliamentary issues and thanking the members of the government for their participation. We continue with the work of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Given that, by the parliamentary groups of the URS, NS and SNS, amendments to the amendments have been made in the procedure, i.e. amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly, with the proposal to, on the basis of Article 168(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure, following an urgent procedure, include the current session of the National Assembly, the National Assembly may decide on the condition that the sittings are attended by most of the total number of MPs. Accordingly, and in order to determine the quorum for decision-making, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 126 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. On the basis of Article 168(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the United Regions of Serbia, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to amend the decision to elect members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 23 December 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the total attendance of 132 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. On the basis of Article 168(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the New Serbia Parliamentary Group, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the motion to amend the Decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 24 December 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, v - one, with abstentions – there are no votes, nine of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. On the basis of Article 168(3), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Serbian Progressive Party MP Group, proposed that, following an emergency procedure, this session be put on the agenda of the motion for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 24 December 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 127, no one, with abstentions, voted nine out of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We move to item 4 of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the Committee of the People's Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the United Regions of Serbia. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. We move to item 5 of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION TO SERVE A DECISION ON THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND REPENDANCE OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE National COMMUNITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the New Serbia Parliamentary Group. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the proposing representative, MP Miroslav Markicevic, want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. We move to item 6 of the agenda – Proposal for a Decision amending the decision on the election of members and the deputy members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia You have received a proposal for a decision taken by the Serbian Progressive Party Group. Before opening a single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? (No) Does the rapporteur of the Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since the lists of parliamentary groups have not been reported for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, i.e. representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) I am concluding a single search on the proposal for a decision. Since the National Assembly has completed a debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Thursday, December 26th, 2013, starting at 20.30pm as the Day of Vote on all agenda points of the 7th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Before we move to a decision on all the points of the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision on agenda points. We move to the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Security Act Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 129, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote, six of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. An integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of MP Srdjan Mikovic to Article 3. It's a bill of law. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -three, against - none, abstentioned - one, did not vote 132 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions - did not vote 133 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Vukkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - five, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote 131 of the total of 136 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - 128, against - none of the abstentions - did not vote nine of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for this law to take effect earlier than the eighth day of publication. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. We move to a decision on item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE AUTENTIC DESCRIPTION OF ARTICLE 22. Article 1 Point 1) AND ARTICLE 29 OF ARTICLE 5. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on the proposal for authentic interpretation, we are moving on to a decision. I put to the vote the Proposal for authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 22(1) and Article 29(5). The law on public enterprises please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for -126, v - two abstentions – there are no votes, nine of the total of the 137 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for authentic interpretation. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the selection of a member of the Commission for the control of the execution of criminal sanctions, i.e. the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly (points 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on these proposals by a majority vote of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision-making decision, in general. I put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – has voted seven out of the 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the United Regions of Serbia, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 129, no one, with abstentions, voted eight out of the 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the draft decision supplementing the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the New Serbia parliamentary group, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote nine out of the 137 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was tabled by the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one with abstention – has voted eight out of the 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision by them, pursuant to Article 102. I hereby conclude my Rules of Procedure at the seventh session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013 and ask that we listen to the anthem of the Republic of Serbia. (Intonation of the Anthem "God of Justice") Thank you all for your cooperation. I also hope for a good year for reforms and for what Parliament has done. I hope the next one will be even more successful. Thank you very much.
