ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21012	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 103 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 92 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings were prevented from being attended by the MPs: Ljubisa Stojmirović, Ivan Bauer and Dejan Rajcic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter: Suzanne Grubjesic, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Verice Kalanovic, Minister of Regional Development and Local Self-Government, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, Minister of Finance and Industry, attend and: Ljubisa Milosavljević, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Zlatko Milikić, Assistant Minister of Finance and Industry, Branka Djordjevic, Assistant at the Ministry of Finance and Industry, Daniel Nikolic, Assistant Minister of Finance and Industry and Sanja Jevtovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Finance and Industry. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail of the Accounting Law proposal. 6th item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE ACCOMMODATION LAW You have received amendments submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanić and amendments to the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the opinion of the Government. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending withdrew amendments submitted on 10 July 2013 to Articles 6, 12, 38, 39, the title above Articles 40 and 41, adding new titles and new Article 51a after Article 51a, as well as the amendment to which amendments were proposed in Articles 33, 34, 35, 36, 37 and 46. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The People's MP Gorica Gajic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21013	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues, today we have a discussion on the agenda in particular, i.e. by amendments to three important laws: the draft law on accounting, the draft law on revision and the proposal for a factoring law. Right at the beginning to say that it is simply incomprehensible to me that almost no parliamentary group, except for one amendment from the LDP, has submitted amendments, except for the DSS, to these three, according to us, very important system laws. We simply ask ourselves whether other parliamentary groups think that these bill proposals are perfect and that they absolutely do not need any amendments or, on the other hand, consider these three laws irrelevant, so they do not deserve to be amended as much as they do? However, regardless of all this, the DSS also pointed out in principle that these are three very important system laws, especially the Accounting Act and the Audit Act, which are now for the first time separated into two separate laws. We ourselves said that the quality of the financial reporting depends on the quality of the real situation in the economy, depending on the arrival of new investors when they see the financial reports of certain enterprises they are interested in, depends on the display, i.e. the real display of the base for taxation in the property tax, in profit tax. This depends, therefore, on tax evasion, which depends on revenue in the budget, and this depends on our deficit, or its size. The other day we were talking here about how much deficit our budget is now facing. So we simply can't believe that responsibility for making financial reports, responsibility for reviewing financial reports must be borne by someone, we must clearly by this law that we have certain persons working, in fact making financial reports, we need to make sure that these financial reports are objective, true, comprehensive, standardised, that they are clear and understandable and foreign investors. Only such financial reports can we expect comprehensive economic development. As far as we can see, it's going to be one of the first and most basic topics since the reconstruction of this government. In order not to owe the principle story now, to refer to this third amendment, or to the first amendment that we have submitted to Article 3. Namely, the draft law in Article 3 says - translations of international financial standards are determined by the Ministry and this solution is published together with the translation in the "Official Messenger" and on the website of the Ministry. We have proposed an amendment that Article 3 is changed and that – professional organisations, which are members of international Federations of accounting officers and auditors, should translate and publish these standards, should actively work on applying and respecting these standards and, of course, introduce and implement the ethical code for professional accountants and auditors. You, in your explanation, say that the amendment cannot be accepted because these international standards are accounting and international standards of financial reporting, by this very proposal of these laws, have become an integral part of the Republic's legislation, and thus the Ministry as a republican body has a sovereign right to determine and decide on legislation, so that it cannot transfer this sovereign right to a particular association or accounting association that should translate these rules. However, we only referred to this member as Article 3 of the Previous Accounting and Audit Act, which states that these translations are governed by a legal person who is a member of the International Federation of Accountants and who has the right and obligation to carry out these translations under contract. Of course, in this bill we have not seen who essentially translates these accounting standards, we just have a decree to determine the solution of translation and to publish that translation. If that's now transferred to the Ministry, is that the Accounting Commission? Who actually translates? On the other hand, we have observations that this is about pretty big money when it comes to that translation and control of all of it. That is why we ask you – if our amendment is not accepted, and because of the profession, and because of the public, you simply tell us who will translate these accounting and financial standards?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21014	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs of Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. Is anyone answering for a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21015	In Article 6(1), point (b) is replaced by the following: We propose that the amendment before saying "business income" be added to the words "annual business income". In Article 6, you gave the classification of legal entities to micro, medium and large, taking into account the business income and the average value of the business assets established on the day of the drawing-up of the annual reports. We only, for the sake of precision, have proposed an amendment to both point 1 and paragraphs 3 and 4 before saying "business", the word adds: "annually", i.e. to refer to annual business income. Just for the sake of precision, we believe that, regardless of your explanation, there is no problem that this word stands for these attitudes that we have stated in the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21016	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21017	Mr. President, as long as I don't sit down at all. I'm just kidding. We have proposed, by amendment to Article 6, to delete in Article 1, the "micro" and that the present position 3 becomes the 2nd position and reads: "it is small legal persons who have an average number of employees up to 50, a business income of 8,800,000 euros and the average value of business assets at the end of the business year that is 4,400,000 euros for entrepreneurs". We also pointed out in the principle debate that this division of yours is now in this bill – on micro, small, medium and large enterprises, with accounting positions and does not matter. In fact, you've only adapted to this bill four and eight. The EU Directive, which knows the division of legal persons as it is now put forward in the proposal. We then suggested that we push for the division of legal persons to remain, so with this amendment we tried to change this to small, medium and large, and to remain category of entrepreneurs and other legal entities. First of all, we have submitted this amendment, and later on, we will give it in an explanation, because for these micro-legislators, the Ministry will bring in a special sub-legal act or regulation, we will call it whatever we want, which will be the basis of the financial reports for micro-legislative persons. So that's one brand-new rule. In this way, around 109.000 or 110.000 legal entities will be exempted from the International Financial Reporting Standard, they will be subject to some special rules, and therefore, the most important thing that has been done under this Regulation will be very high costs, close to 30m euros in businesses, because they will seek new computer programs, new staff training, new patterns, then the situation that micro-legals will be moved to small, small, medium-sized, medium-sized, so that due to these border crossings will simply be very difficult to apply, without large costs. On the other hand, these costs can, best known by the Ministry of Finance and Business, 30m euros can be invested in jobs, with jobs ranging from five to 7,000 new jobs. That was the point we submitted this amendment to.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21018	Thank you. You didn't have to sit down. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. Mrs. Gajic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21019	One very important member, perhaps one of the most important members of this bill, is Article 14. We have submitted to Article 14. an amendment which reads: "Article 14 is amended and reads – The Legal Person, i.e. the Entrepreneur to Internal Regulation, regulates the school's provision of economic and financial orientations, appropriate professional titles, work experience and other conditions for a person who runs books and draws up financial reports". If you were to remain in Article 14, as indicated in the proposal, the legal person can determine and, it is said, only school equipment, work experience and other conditions. We felt, in consultation with the profession, that here must or should, however you realize it, that it stands which persons are responsible for drawing up financial reports. It does not matter if the financial report will draw up a professional accountant, a man or a person who has worked in the profession for many years, who has been educated, for years some experience and some practice in the profession have been gained. We have enough experts, which is why we believe that through this law, especially in this article, the accounting profession should be protected, especially if we know, years ago, and we have said in principle that trust in financial reports and audit reports has reached the lowest possible level in years. Almost no longer believes in the truthfulness and objectivity of these reports, and we know that for years back, which audit and consulting houses evaluated the assets of Serbian companies, these companies sold, estimated the assets of our domestic banks, mostly gave positive opinions and on the situation in terms of assets, i.e. balance sheet and business, i.e. on the balance sheet of success. On the other hand, we have a catastrophic situation, i.e. companies sold, hundreds of thousands of jobs lost, and financial reports have become simply unnecessary writing. That is why we propose not to marginalise accountants and experts in this area, but to be the basis for an objective, true and comprehensive development of a financial report.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21020	The People's MP Radmil Gerov has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21021	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 14 of the proposed law provides that a legal person or entrepreneur may also prescribe, by means of an internal act, professional preparation and work experience for an accountant. The fact is that the large segment of our economy is made up of entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. The fact is that entrepreneurs run the companies themselves, and small and medium-sized enterprises are mostly owners. The level of vocational education and entrepreneurs and owners of small and medium-sized enterprises today in Serbia is not satisfactory. On the other hand, since they do not have enough knowledge, they rely on their accountants in their work. If this article were to remain the 14th as it is, it would mean that in Serbia anyone can run books, including the NKV worker. On the other hand, if we know that a large number of people work for entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, what will we have in the future? Not enough professional entrepreneur, not enough professional owner of small and medium-sized enterprises, bad accountant. This must certainly result in the failure of such an entrepreneur. For that reason, we believe that an accountant can't be anyone, he can't be an NKV worker. If he could, then surely the Ministry and the Government would allow anyone to be an accountant. The fact is that budget users have prescribed calls, so they are graduate economists who run business books. That is why we believe that it is not correct and that it is not right that anyone can run business books, especially which gives the law the opportunity for such NKV citizens to open up their accounting agencies as well. Today, there are about 8,000 in Serbia. What is the responsibility of the agency when it misrepresents business books for an entrepreneur, and the entrepreneur pays the fine? It can be explained, Minister, that – let an entrepreneur or a small or medium-sized enterprise change the accounting agency, but the fact is that some accounting agencies charge services of two or three thousand dinars on a monthly level, some other, more quality, from 20,000 to 30,000 dinars. In the country where we live, where traffic falls daily due to VAT increases, due to low wages from workers and the poverty of the population, the fact is that small entrepreneurs will not be able to pay much to their accountant or accountant and will choose the kind of agency that provides accounting services with as low a price as possible. That in the perspective means that any control, when the accountant is wrong, will cause great penalties for that entrepreneur and the practical closure of the firm.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21022	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21023	It is clear that the legislator's intensities are what he wanted in Article 14 to propose and how to choose persons who keep business books and draw up financial reports. What is the applicant's intensity is collective responsibility and the person who draws up a financial report, as well as the legal representative and members of the supervisory or management board of that economic operator or legal person. So, the promoter didn't want to legally impose an obligation on a legal person what qualifications and attributes should be owned by one who would draw up a financial report, to impose a new obligation on him. So, just because the responsibility of both the legal representative and the members of the Supervisory Board, but also the one who draws up and is responsible for the accuracy of the report, it is clear that the owner of each legal person will take care of who he takes to run his business books. I don't think this amendment makes any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21024	Anybody else answer for a word? National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 15th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21025	Article 15 continues in fact, our explanation would continue to explain to Article 14. In fact, we propose that Article 15 be changed and that, as we have proposed, the conduct of business books and the collection of financial reports of a legal person and entrepreneur may be entrusted to a professional accountant, an employee who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 14, but as we have proposed and not punished for criminal acts that make him unworthy of carrying out operations in the field of accounting, that is to say, to a second company that has a heavy registered activity for the provision of accounting services which has an employee who has entrusted with the conduct of business books and the assembly of financial reports, which fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 14 of this Act as we have proposed, or to an entrepreneur who has a heavy registered activity in the provision of accounting services, again who fulfils the conditions laid down in Article 14 of this law. Yes, of course, responsibility for a quality, true financial report should be shared, and surely it is a good thing that collective responsibility, as well as a legal representative, or a director, or we should call it whatever. But before that, before the director who does not have to be a professional person for the area of finance and accounting, he will definitely sign, certainly by his signature, because the legal representative is responsible for the quality and true financial report. But before him, the financial report, or any accounting business change, and the way they are recorded, is the responsibility of the profession. This profession is a graduate economist, i.e. a rope accounting expert. In every firm when I was a very young economist, I started working, so to speak, the law was a good accounting chief. From the good head of accounting, it all depended. At the time when the annual reports ended, when the executives were to surrender, they sat there and waited to see what the accounting chief would say at the end – was the company doing a positive business, or was there any gain and loss? A good accounting chief especially in a manufacturing company that has both production and trade was an alpha and omega of a financial and accounting expert. So it's an honor to anyone who wishes in this crisis to deal with everything else and book. Today we have accounting agencies that are unable to find a quality fit to employ any person who wants to work, simply who wants to learn how to book, to be an accountant. But that doesn't mean he's a good accountant. So we have to protect the profession, among other things, and other professions, but we graduate economists, i.e. accountants and financial experts or auditors later on at the second law, simply have to preserve the profession that this very important field of accounting, finance and showing the business of an enterprise, or the legal person is entrusted to the profession. The point is that. There's no higher cost. We had an obligation to protect the profession that existed for years or decades and should take care of this particular area.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21026	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) The People's MPs Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to Article 22 of the amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? National MP Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21027	One again, if not the most important member or our amendment, whatever. Article 22 The bill says – for the recognition, evaluation, presentation and disclosure of positions in individual financial reports, the micro and other legal persons referred to in point 2 of Article 2 of this Act shall, independently of the size, apply a sublegal act adopted by the minister responsible for financial affairs, based on general accounting principles. Item 2 says -- exclusively from attitude 1st micro and other legal persons, regardless of size, they can decide to apply international standards, financial statements for small and medium-sized legal persons. We of the DSS propose, by amendment to delete Article 22, and suggests that micro and other legal persons, which are proposed to be drawn up under the sublaw. We simply said that, in principle, by adopting this new act, the regulation, we will exempt 109 thousand legal entities or 90% of legal entities from applying international standards of accounting and financial reporting. Therefore, let me repeat, these financial reports in such a way as to put together, before that, will require large economic costs, for programmes, training, patterns, will go from one category to another category of legal entities, and will make it difficult for them. On the other hand, you have micro-legals that are now being introduced that have a diverse range of performance from production, trade, services. We simply don't see how this sublegal act will simplify this colourfulness in the performance of its work. Then there are 30,000 other associations, trade unions, political parties, sports organisations, all of which are legal entities that will fall, which will benefit from this new sublegal act. If we say in attitude two that both these persons, micro-legal persons and other legal entities can use international standards of financial reporting for small and medium-sized legal persons, so we give them that possibility, then we'll have one complete colorolicity and we simply won't know who applies the standard. On the other hand, there will be costs and tax administrations, i.e. the finance ministry, because new inspectors will have to, as I say, dress up and, on the basis of this Regulation, tax inspectors will have to know some five levels of financial reporting in order to be able to properly monitor whether they are applied and whether they are operating by those standards. For the sake of these costs and for the Ministry of Finance, that is, the tax administration and the economy, we have suggested that this member be abolished. By proposing that we eliminate micro-legislators, entrepreneurs and other legal entities and beyond, as they have been working on the terms, according to the final plan that has been adapted to international standards of financial reporting, to continue to apply these same standards and to enter into the system of international standards, to be readable to the whole world as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21028	The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21029	I've just introduced a category of micro-enterprises, I consider one of the most valuable flows of this new accounting law. Some 110,000 micro-legislators in the coming period, after the adoption of this law, will be obliged to draw up fully simplified financial reports that will allow them in every respect a simpler procedure, large savings but also the possibility and objectivity and transparency of their reports. The colleague said they have the opportunity to draw up financial reports, international financial reporting standards for small and medium-sized enterprises. So all those micro-legislators who think they should draw up for some reason such reports that would be understandable and objective, transparent for some foreign investors have that possibility. Just as medium-level legal entities have the opportunity to draw up financial reports of international standards for financial reporting. Once again, I believe that the introduction of a micro-category of legal entities in the new accounting law is one of the best flows of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21030	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Gorica Gajic submitted to the title above Articles 22 and 22 of the amendment. Does the MP want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted the 29th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the messenger of the people, Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21031	Thank you, Chairman. It is a member who says that a legal person is required to draw up an annual business report. This applies to all legal persons in Serbia, except churches and church communities, which are exempt by this law. Here I repeat the question why this kind of discrimination is made, because it is contrary to all the rules that avoid the exemption from this kind of law, it is also the member who is exempt from churches and against the constitution, and I just want to take this opportunity and say that in collaboration with some other fellow Members of Parliament and some NGOs, I am going to launch the constitutionality of this member that the churches are exempt from keeping books, especially when it comes to funds received from the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21032	Thank you. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 33rd amendment. The word is Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21033	Thank you, Mr. President. Article 33 says – delivery of financial reports for public publication. In paragraph 1, the legal entities, i.e. entrepreneurs, are obliged to provide regular annual financial reports for the reporting year to the Agency for public publication, no later than 30 June of the following year, unless the special law is regulated differently, i.e. they are given deadlines until the financial reports are submitted and to which they are submitted for public publication. We have submitted an amendment to Article 33 to add the 7th position after Article 6 – the Agency performs logical, accounting and essential control of financial reports. In fact, it is clear to us that in Article 33, which financial reports are handed over and who is publishing them. We couldn't see in the law who was going to control the financial reports. Namely, you in Article 45. The bill of law says that control of the regularity of business changes will be done by the Tax Administration, which means that it is the essential control. We had doubts, though, whether this fundamental control was carried out by the Agency for Business Registers or the Tax Administration, we simply weighed down on who had the personnel potential in terms of profession and who had the technical ability to do the job. Somehow, in our consultation with the profession, our position was to do so by the Agency for Economic Registers. However, as far as this is concerned, as a member or as much as this substance, who controls accounting financial reports, has also witnessed the amendment proposed by the Committee, or SNS, for which this session has been postponed, and now the amendment has been withdrawn, where, instead of the APR doing this job, the NBS should do so, and then a common solution has been found to receive and publish the APR financial reports, and, if necessary, provide the NBS with all the data needed. Thus, when the APR accepts this financial report and when publicly publishes it, it is a public document, so the NBS can use automation in this way and access certain data. But it was obviously a compromise between the two ruling parties in power. That's why we're asking, knowing that once there was a Social Accounting Service, we who had been young before, knew who was in charge of the fundamental control of what's called a financial report, what's called an annual report, and for such controls, we knew for sure that there would be an assessment or that it was right or wrong. This time we don't see who's going to do it, except that this fundamental control will only come on the agenda when there's been an audit of those financial reports. If it's a bad financial report, it won't be a good audit report.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21034	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21035	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister, what the SPS parliamentary group is interested in, and then the debate which was in principle when it comes to accounting law is that we, although we know it, are told to the citizens who it is, which is why it abolished the Social Accounting Service – SDK, the PDO, as you want to call it. What were the reasons why there was so much talk today with grief and regret that it no longer exists? Who canceled it? For what? Why did we come to this situation that we came to, that there was no control over everything that you couldn't come here to pay taxes, no taxes and no contributions paid, and later it turned out that whoever wanted to pay the wages, not pay taxes and contributions, that he didn't pay taxes, that he came to the cash register without any bill for cover, it couldn't have happened until he became a PDO, that's why. SDK, whatever you want to call him. Let the one responsible and why he abolished that institution that was simply so perfectly accurate and precise, that the moment when a Belgrade worker typed a warrant to a company in Nis, the same second the funds were found with the company in Nis, and he could still have it with them. Why do we have a situation like this today? Who's responsible for this? Please, citizens are asking for an answer. Let him answer it, let him say it. I've abolished it for that and for that, and I've had support for it from these and those. So let's look into each other's eyes once, as one slogan says.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21036	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21037	Thank you. Article 33 provides that legal entities and entrepreneurs should deliver their business report to the Agency by 30 June for public publication. We have discussed in principle that, for us in the LDP, it is not enough for the financial report to be made public only if no one subsequently controls what happens to these financial reports. As an example, we cited RTB Bor, where independent auditors have pointed out years ago that RTB Bor does not comply with the Accounting and Audit Act, that it does not use international standards. The fact is that in all the audit reports it says so, and that RTB Bor management does nothing to make the irregularities shown in the reports apply, so that the next financial year starts with a legitimate business situation. I don't want to repeat what I was talking about in the principle debate, since there are disagreements between the London and the Paris Club for two and pô billion, that according to the interest, there are so many, that RTB Bor has registered assets of companies that are no longer and have nothing to do with RTB Bor. For this reason, we believe that someone must exercise control of financial reports, that when an independent auditor in his work refrains from giving an opinion and makes recommendations, and then the legal face of that recommendation fails to comply with next year, he simply has to suffer some sanctions. If there are no such sanctions, then the question arises why is the revision of the final accounts in the first place?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21038	Anybody else answer for a word? (No) On the basis of Article 156(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have submitted an amendment to Article 41. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21039	Mr. President, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, last week, the DS asked for amendments that predicted that the economy had to submit reports for two months, it's a good thing they were withdrawn. However, this morning on the Finance Committee, we proposed that we move on, and that is that, once the coalition in power has found a way to ensure that the NBS has direct access to the financial reports of our economy, there is no reason not to be the case with all other bodies, which states, which public institutions. In fact, if the National Bank has a problem with data, an even bigger problem is for other parts of our country and we are in an absurd situation, where one part of the state hesitates to give information to other parts of the state, charges, of course, who pays at the end, pays the citizens, pays the economy. I welcome the fact that the head of the SNS parliamentary group said it was a good idea, but I don't understand why we didn't have the strength to change this amendment this morning. Because we could have done it as a committee and adopted this amendment today, which the DS would have supported, thus ensuring that the state would only charge its services once. Is it in the middle that something was arranged, as the Committee president said, politically? She said a tunnel was built between the National Bank of Serbia and the APR, i.e. the information tunnel and that when an information tunnel is made between the two institutions, that information cannot be supplied to others. I'd like to hear what kind of tunnel that is? Because if one institution can informically access that data, how is it possible that it is not available to everyone else? There may be a valid reason, but we didn't hear him this morning. In the weeks to come, the DS will propose on Sundays that one legislative initiative comes because I think we all care about not making political agreements between the APR holding G 17 plus or the URS and the National Bank of Serbia held by the SNS in the image of the two parties, but to make agreements that are really in the interest of our citizens and our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21040	Replica, Vesna Kovac, chairman of the Committee and vice president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21041	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, dear Minister, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, as chairman of the Finance Committee, I have a need to replicate my colleague Djelic. Namely, he's been my pervasive explanation since this morning of the information tunnel between the National Bank and the APR a little bit, I think, misunderstood. This is really about one information tunnel. When we talk about the data the state authorities are taking over from the APR, of course there is a legal possibility that they are doing it now. They're doing it based on demands. Therefore, if they need any information that the APR has, they submit a request to the APR and there is no interference with the APR supplying any data to a certain state body. The proposed amendment concerns direct access to the data, i.e. the database that the APR has. That is certainly necessary, and that is where we agreed to most of the votes on the Committee. Simply, it is a step forward in the co-operation of the National Bank and the APR. Because the National Bank, which actually runs monetary policy and needs to be able to access directly certain databases from time to time, and this is not just about the data concerning financial reports and the Accounting Act, this will continue to be about improving the relationship that concerns all data, i.e. all registers that are kept in the APR, which are needed by the National Bank for Monetary Policy Management. So I think this is a really good solution and this is an improvement of dialogue. In fact, this is an example of how dialogue actually brings about the best solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21042	MP Veroljub Arsic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21043	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can call it an information tunnel, although we prefer these other, real, traffic infrastructures. I really, at least in one part, am surprised by my colleague Djelic, which is – how do they remember it now? They've had time to solve this problem for so many years, and now as an opposition, they have an ex-post mind, so they want to teach us some other things. Nor should they be angry at us because DS established many rules in the work of state authorities. There are so many that we can't change them so quickly, but first we look to change those worst rules, and this second one, while we exist, we have to respect it because the law is respected, whether it's good or bad. When it comes to this story about the National Bank and the APR, let's not deny the truth that the National Bank, except for the control and conduct of monetary policy, has a few other things in its jurisdiction, which is – the issue of credits to various legal persons in relation to various projects, in relation to various areas of co-operation with international financial institutions, etc. Simply, another problem arises here, which means that the National Bank would have to submit several times a day the requirements of the APR, which, even with the best possible effort, can often be answered because of its activity that it has in some period that does not correspond to the National Bank, i.e. it receives that information from the National Bank when they are completely unusable to it. As for the compensation, also mentioned on the Finance Committee, where state authorities pay to various other agencies, I welcome the idea. As far as DS is concerned, I think there has already been talk about it and that some legal solutions have been made impossible, but in order to prevent further unwarranted revenues when it comes to state agencies, we will see one legal solution, which is that state agencies, which many call para-state authorities, are treating our own revenues as revenue from the Republic of Serbia's budget and we will completely put them under control in the sense that they are subject to the same rules that apply to employees of state administration bodies. We can't do this with these partial solutions, one by one, but by one special law that would regulate it. I expect the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government in some future period, together with the Ministry of Finance, to make one such law that will be found here in the procedure that simply, when it comes to these state agencies that make their own incomes over which parliament has no control, neither the Treasury of the Republic of Serbia nor the Ministry of Finance, we put it under complete control. They will thus be demoted to seek a way of income that burdens either the economy or other state bodies.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21044	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21045	Dear chairman, respected ministry representatives, fellow MPs, we have warned of this amendment, which was submitted in the original form by SNS deputies. We warned because it was clear that it was written in the National Bank and that it was a party amendment. It shows a complete farce from freezing the resignation of the party, Georgivanka Tabakovic, because SNS MPs are bringing an amendment to the Committee's session and are asking for it to be adopted and then to receive the support of a party representing itself as an opposition. We have strongly opposed this, not because we are entering your interparty conflicts, it is not in our best interests at all, and we do not care what you do, but to protect the interests of the businessmen. They were supposed to deliver double reports to both the National Bank and the APR. We felt that there was no need for this, and we are pleased that our pressure and our discussions on the Committee have allowed you to understand that this is not good and that in some way we save the economy and the troubles with the administration and the costs that, I will remind you once again, have been reduced by three million euros since 2009, and that is something that is certainly a much better solution than that for businessmen in two places to submit reports, which is nowhere, in any European country. On the other hand, such a proposal was also contrary to European directives. As far as the information tunnel is concerned, there is no such thing as to exist, but it is certainly better to establish a direct approach for all the institutions of the state to register with the APR, rather than to employ new personnel in the National Bank of Serbia, to employ a new administration, to buy new equipment, and this would have made the amendment in its original form accepted. I can't agree with my colleague about the change in staff. I think it would be terrible for this country if you would change your staff even faster, because whenever you name a frame, workers in these companies, institutions are sure tomorrow will be much worse for them and for the entire state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21046	Replica, Veroljub Arsic, as head of the SNS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21047	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the governor of the NBS has been proposed by the President of the Republic, who is also the President of the Republic of all citizens, not the SNS. As for the submission of amendments, do not deny us our Constitution, Rules of Procedure, and the Law on the National Assembly of Law. You don't have the right to do that, you can't do that. When you mention new employees, and when you mention various other costs, you are at least in one part while you were in power you were hyper-productive about it. I remember when I first became an MP on January 21, 2001, 87 employees worked in this assembly. Now there's one 300 more. You were very productive in employment, when it comes to state authorities. You were also very productive when it comes to state agencies. At one point, you even set up an agency. So when it comes to savings, software and everything else, don't tell us anything about it, you have no right to do it. Maybe if we're worse than you, and so far we're much better than you. One more thing, when it comes to the National Bank, making software and increasing the number of employees, I'll just remind you that the National Bank was a payer through the Payment Office, and during that period while it was acquired is enough software and hardware and has technical opportunities to monitor any activity and run any register in the Republic of Serbia. There are also personnel who can handle it without hiring new ones. I will also remind you that this year the National Bank paid 4.5 billion dinars into the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which your governors did not pay because they were spending on salaries and representations. So, don't worry about the People's Bank, she's in safe hands. For the first time, she is independent and independent, unlike your governors who first had to ask Boris Tadic what to do, so if he allows them, do or not do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21048	Replica, Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21049	I'd like you to tell me, Mr. Arsic, which foreigners were you in when you first became an envoy and in which country did you live? Since, as you know, the federal administration and the federal parliament were then there, and the republican took over the employees, so that what you're saying is a pure bribery. As for the right to submit amendments, of course you have the right to submit amendments, but you cannot submit amendments that will be contrary to the European directives and you expect us to keep quiet about it and to be contrary to the interests of the economy and to expect us to remain silent, that will not happen. Also, when you say you have rights, we have rights, but you can't say we don't have the right to talk. We'll talk, because we want to warn both the public and the citizens of Serbia about what you're doing, because you always have an ex-post mind, and this is now an ex-post mind, and we are glad that we have influenced you to accept our suggestion that there is no need for businessmen in two places to file reports. I'll remind you how it was done, since you claim there is capacity both technically and humanely, I'll remind you that it was either done physically or the optical discs were sent by mail to the National Bank. So, so much for having the capacity. As far as the administration is concerned, just for the first ten months of the new government employs over 10,000 administrative workers in the public administration. So much for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21050	Replica, Mr. Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21051	Ten grand first. I'll be well-trained and tell you that you're not telling the truth. It's not even close, nobody's busy. Let's add up, the administration that was in the then Federal Assembly and in the Republic and see how many times you've increased it. Let's add up the number of employees, at least twice. Who opened these agencies? You. Who made a pair of state authorities? You. Who was burdening the economy? You. What you're talking about, about these disks and all that, can't be done without the National Bank software, if you didn't know. And that's what you wanted to ruin. - A little later? - Mm-hmm. You know what, later on, I mean that someone was able to do something and when he was, he didn't do it, so when he didn't, he was trying to teach others how and what they were going to do. That's a good idea. We now have a problem with spending and creating unnecessary administration in Serbia. You were in charge of Serbia for the administration. As far as the EU directive is concerned, we respect the directives and do not transfer them to us. Do not because DS does not have a monopoly to introduce Serbia into the EU, and those who have gone into an honest fight against organised crime and corruption, those who have embarked on a sincere reform of the judiciary, the prosecution and other state bodies, have no monopoly but have the right to introduce Serbia into the EU. You've had that opportunity but you've also set up party prosecutors and party judges and party governors and that's why you didn't join the EU. You wrote laws that fit the tycoons, not some state institution. That's why we have this kind of economy, this kind of bad legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21052	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21053	Thank you, Mr. President. I think our position is confirmed by this. We could've gone one step further today. We could have ensured today that, as without any tunnel, because it doesn't exist in information, there are closed and open databases and dots, of course there are various techniques, thank God, we have this Internet revolution for many years, to be available to everyone. No, there's something else here. It's a matter of still saving revenues for one agency. You don't need to fall into any form of demagogy. The government of Zoran Djindjic has launched the formation of the APR. Why? Because that jurisdiction had been dissuaded before, in various courts and it was much less effective and ultimately more expensive than it is today. We're not talking about the criticism of a useful agency, there are some of them, the APR, but we're talking about what's been established over the past few years, and that's that they started to charge where they shouldn't charge. Every bureaucracy has its own logic, I guess the political authority is here to provide both the voice of the people and the voice of the businessmen. That's what we from DS tried to do this morning. I'm glad your SNS colleague said it was a good idea and what we're going to do in the weeks to come, maybe for months, together. But why wait? I have to tell you, it was obvious that you had to prepare for a coalition partner, now in these pervasive times of reconstruction, such very public amendments, to give in and give in to your governor, and why only her, these reports. Yes, the President of the Republic has suggested it, but there is one small problem. When she was chosen, you had to change the law that you had to re-change through some subsequent mind, let's remember that. You had to change the law so that she as a political official could be elected. Then when she was elected we said in DS - choose, don't be the only governor who is at the same time the leader of a political party, it's not in the world, it's not good for you, it's not good for SNS and for this government, it's not good for Serbia. When the president suggested she was elected. She was elected number two of your party after the governor's election. You can't say she's not politicized by it. If he suggested it on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, then why did you decide and need to re-partize it, if I may say so? What is clear here is that by adopting this law that has the transposition of the elements of the European directives, we see that Europe is very specific. These directives will do something useful to our legislation, which is that micro-enterprises have a much simpler way of keeping books and that's good. There are many good things that no one here should boast, but it is some common achievement of European integration, one more practical way to keep books and put responsibility where it must be. This morning, we had the opportunity after the DS initiative to give up those amendments from the original formats, to come up with a much better solution this morning, and simply to those who are part of the state, which are both the APR and all the other agencies, stop acting like they're not part of it. And there's the Agency for Medicinal Products. There's the Agency for Medicinal Products. There are a lot of other agencies, and don't be demagogues to say we don't need those agencies. These are European standards and we can't have them in half. But simply in our country, some things have broken out of control, and it's time to, and we agree with you, to reconsider this situation, and that if we really want the citizens and our business, we make sure that the APR doesn't charge anyone in the country anything, and that anyone who needs these reports in the same way that you provide here for your governor, delivers direct access to that same information. There's no reason for us to be disciplining inside the state apparatus right now. Why would the National Bank have something that couldn't possibly have a vice president or a ministry? Why can the National Bank have access to a report that couldn't possibly have, for example, the Ministry of Finance and Business? Maybe it'll be easier to go there, because that agency is under their control. Why wouldn't the Ministry of Energy have the same access to that same information from that sector that they're interested in? When I was Deputy Prime Minister, my cabinet had to beg the APR, so we had to write, explain why we needed some reports from our exporters. We've been dealing with a little detail, and that's to make some export strategy for our country. These are things that simply shouldn't exist. There's no high policy here. I know you made a deal here with the URS and the SNS about it, that there was tension over this. That's why we put this off at DS initiative for a few days. Well, let's stop that. The situation is difficult enough, so I'll finish it. Perhaps the National Bank of Serbia will have a direct approach, but respected MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will only realize that last year the profitability of our businesses was halved and that this year, as things have started, these reports will further determine the decline of our economy and after the rebalancing that has been adopted here, which has only shortened investment and in construction and what is the future of our country, we will find that these reports show very close to the Sun and the huge liquidity problems that exist in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21054	MP Veroljub Arsic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21055	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand this need to attack the governor of the National Bank, but I think it's a bit degutant that it comes from a political party that has chosen Kori Udovicki as governor of the National Bank, which was then Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a nonpartial minister, well, that's hypothetically possible, which is essentially not, which was chosen by the votes of Thessaloniki and Bodrum. A very degutant, violated independence of an institution. When it comes to these famous 2012 balance sheets, I agree, they will be halved because the government of Mirko Cvetkovic led Serbia for eight months, led the economy. It was very difficult to do anything in the last four months, when it comes to the economic situation, because the balances were halved in the first half of the year. Now that you're transferring it, then you need to know how to make the final bill, when you're looking at these balances, and you're going to see and ask for the method of random sample and you're going to see how much write-off is shown which is due to the course differences. I think it was for these Governments of Mirko Cvetkovic, in which Djelic, a euro, was savaged and spent a billion and a half euros to stabilise the dinar course. These are your results, not ours. We're in charge of the state now. It's just, for what some do in a year, it often takes years for this damage to be removed, and it restores the right function to the state authorities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21056	Let me just let you know, since there are more than one word reported than what the system can accept, who has so far and in what order declared for the word. The first to be declared is MP Mirko Cikiriz, then Srdjan Milivojević, then Vesna Kovac, then Ivan Jovanovic, then Aleksandra Tomic, then Zoran Babic, then Judita Popovic. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21057	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 128 again. It's hard to get used to being disciplined when it comes to these parliamentary cards. It would really be fine if you took care of it, Mr. President, that an MP, unless he's sitting in a parliamentary bench, and left a card, could have serious consequences. The main mention of this Bodrum was that I was initiated and associated with the situation with the cards sitting in the parliamentary benches instead of the MPs. It's about the fact that the cards have to be carried with them. MPs should learn, it's not enough to just move those cards out of the electronic system. The MPs should take the cards with them. It's not hard to learn, so if you're taking care of this Bodrum so much, you keep mentioning it, to start with that little thing, so, cards, electronic system and MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21058	I agree, as far as the cards are concerned. I ask all MPs to carry their cards with them. It's something that's a business obligation. The next to be reported is MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21059	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Dr. Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's what the amendments to the ruling majority look like and what laws are passed at the moment when the hard-working processes of the government's reconstruction are under way. These amendments, which were referred to by the DS and which were very necessary and necessary, are not brought, unfortunately, because of the necessity to fix the law, but solely because of your unresolved inter-party relations. Yesterday we saw that you were dissatisfied with the fact that you weren't self-critical enough. It's like a naked island. Some of them haven't revised their attitude. When they don't revise the attitude, then we have problems. The Business Registers Agency was formed by the government of Zoran Djindjic. It is the fact that there are agencies that you criticize, which were necessary. It is a fact that some have had the opportunity to show what they know, like in 1999, so they left the country economically, materially and morally destroyed, without territory and without a population. Here's to the amendment. It is a fact that some have announced guillotine regulations. Unfortunately, the guillotine of regulations has turned into a guillotine of ministerial chairs. I would never trade my insolence for your decency and your kindness. But for the end of this amendment statement, it is inappropriate for me to be honored that I voted for the Governor of Bodrum, and in his ranks there are MPs who publicly admit that he stole someone else's card, but only after three months, when faced with evidence. Don't ever object to anyone's Bodrum affair again, because you steal MP cards to secure the quorum. That's not what I'm saying. That's what your MPs say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21060	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic used two minutes and 10 seconds of time for the amendment. (Veroljub Arsic, from town: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Veloljub Arsic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. ( b) Do you want to talk to the Rules of Procedure? Okay. Just to point out that the electronic system must be excluded and that the MPs have been declared to take part in the debate under the amendment of this order: MP Mirko Cikiriz, MP Vesna Kovac, Ivan Jovanovic, Aleksandra Tomic and Zoran Babic. National MP Veroljub Arsic, after the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21061	First, Article 104(1) is injured. The Rules of Procedure - if, in their presentation at the National Assembly, the Members of Parliament who are not a member of the same parliamentary group are offended by their words, stating his name and last name or function, or misreading his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication. If offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a political party whose MPs belong or the president, he can respond...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21062	The MP, member of 104, who speaks of giving the right to a replica, cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as the decision of the chairman is. Thank you. You want to talk about another injury to the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) National MP Veroljub Arsic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21063	A member of 107 was injured because, as chairman, you were obliged to warn the previous speaker to stick to the topic of the agenda, not to tell his political circulation about the cards, about the theft of his card, about the reconstruction of the government. It's not the subject of that amendment. You should have also given me the right to replicated Article 104. The Rules of Procedure, because one good part of his discussion...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21064	People's MP, the right to replica cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, as the replica is decided by the chairman. The decision-making is clear in the final position that defines the presidency's obligations and I ask you to either speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Rule 103 or to continue the debate on the search in particular. You can talk about article 107 if you want to talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21065	I would like the National Assembly to declare in the voting day that the infringements of the Rules of Procedure which I have stated regarding Articles 104 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21066	People's MP, about the violation of Article 104. The National Assembly cannot be declared, since Article 104 on replication rights cannot be subject to breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now I warn you not to abuse the right to receive a word of the Rules of Procedure about the injury you have stated, the violation of article 107. As regards Article 104, the National Assembly will be declared in the voting day. (Veloljub Arsic, from the city: according to the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Veroljub Arsic wants to speak after the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21067	It's not you who have the right to the authentic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. The MP, unless he is satisfied with your response, has the right to ask the National Assembly to declare it - whether it is Article 1, 104, 254 or 1054. Ma'am, the time of your dictatorship has passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21068	National MP, you did not specify which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured in your final presentation, which I find totally unnecessary by disturbing the order at the National Assembly session. Article 103 obliges you to specify which member is injured when you are asking to speak of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. The same member of 103 obliges also the chairman to give notice to a MP who believes he can violate Article 103. Since I do not think that it is time and place and, taking care of order at the session, in accordance with Article 27, I ask you to stop with attempts to abuse the right of business to give word of injury to the Rules of Procedure. I have repeated, or I have said, and I repeat, the People’s Assembly will declare the injury of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Zoran Babic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21069	Madam Chairman, you have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 106(1). – The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Since you were jealous of taking Mr. Veroljub Arsic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, you had to be at least...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21070	People's messenger, the word has not been taken from anyone. Please, let's get back to the agenda. The word was not taken from anyone. The warning was not given to anyone. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Let me explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let me explain Article 106 to the end.) In accordance with Article 27, I'm taking care of the order at the session and I'm asking you to cooperate. National MP Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21071	You've injured Article 106. Rules of Procedure item 1, as you have warned and excluded from Mr Veroljub Arsic's system...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21072	People's messenger, no one's been warned. Please be careful to explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. No one's been warned. No one's been taken from the word. We all have an obligation to use Article 103 in accordance with the attitudes that bind us. So please, if you'd like to explain article 106, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21073	As you interrupted Mr. Arsic, head of the SNS parliamentary group, you were obliged, to be chaired by this highest legislative body in the Republic of Serbia, to warn the previous speaker who spoke, asked for and received word by amendment, and then spoke about the time when the Agency for Economic Registers did not exist. And then he talked about the things that this National Assembly is waiting for in the future, that is, in the coming weeks - the reconstruction of the government. He only talked about the amendment when he said - I'm reporting for the amendment. Nothing more. You didn't interrupt him, even though he spoke and you didn't warn him, even though he spoke for more than two minutes. I know you cultivate the tradition of selective justice and selective treatment towards the MPs of the people, but in this session of the National Assembly, you will not be allowed to do so. I ask that the National Assembly in the voting day be made known about this violation of the Rules of Procedure which you have made.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21074	Of course, the National Assembly will plead for the expressed injury of the Rules of Procedure. The fact that the MP has spoken for more than two minutes cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, because the parliamentary group to which he belongs has more than two minutes at his disposal. The National MP received word from the president of the National Assembly that he participated in a search for the amendment and did not receive a replica. If you want to make an objection to Article 106, then you cannot at the same time claim that the MP has received the right to reply, because the replica does not imply the obligation to speak about the agenda. If it's not a replica, then it can speak for more than two minutes, because it has time available. There is still an amendment in the search that was submitted to the Committee on 41st. As the previous MP was allowed to speak about the context in which the amendment was tabled at the Committee session, so will all other MPs who wish to participate in the search in particular and the amendment submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. National MP Zoran Babic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21075	Madam Chairman, you have injured Article 107(1). The elemental insubordination of my injury to the Rules of Procedure, where at no time did I say that the previous speaker spoke for more than two minutes, or that he had received a replica. I talked about the matter and about what he said, and he asked for a word according to the amendment. He talked about everything, just not the amendment. Therefore, you have now deliberately humiliated the dignity of the congregation by twisting your words and taking advantage of an argument that is not clear to anyone in this room. That's why I'm asking you to take this article 107 as well. The National Assembly declares the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21076	People's MP, fortunately there are stenograms. I ask that Zoran Babiæ be delivered to the MP when he had the right to speak, on the basis of his wish to speak of the injury of the Rules of Procedure, where he would stand, in a free quote – and he spoke for more than two minutes. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Lucky there are stenograms. People's MP, please don't throw away. The MP who gets the right to talk about any amendment as long as he has time at his disposal can use it. I hope we understand each other now. The review is in particular on the amendment to Article 41, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21077	Thank you very much and thank you for your beautiful announcement. I am the opposition, allegedly, MP who voted on the Finance Committee for the first version of the amendment of the Finance Committee, but also my colleague for the second version. Mr Djelic, former Deputy Prime Minister, has just given a strong argument, which we gave to the Finance Committee and then to the media, which is why the SPO voted in favour of the amendment. Namely, the Agency for Business Registers was a step forward with the day of its creation. Madam Chairman, I'd like to ask you, if I'm out of time to use the time of the parliamentary group. However, Mr. Djelic is also... (President: I ask the People's Messengers to listen to a fellow MP. )......................................................................................................... He said that, in his time as Deputy Prime Minister, he had great problems getting the reports necessary for the government's work from the Agency for Economic Registers, which has largely acted as an independent and independent body that no one, not even the Government, has submitted reports and even has to ask him to do what the purpose and purpose of its existence is. On the other hand, the question has been raised – would if the National Bank of Yugoslavia were to carry out these financial reports for the purpose of conducting a single fiscal and monetary policy, that would be a European solution? It is one solution. Such a solution exists in Belgium. The National Bank of Serbia controls and works by insurance organisations, and yet it is one of the few solutions. It seems to me that only four countries in the world have legally allowed the NB to exercise control of insurance organisations, but in any case, it has led to order in the part where the NBJ has conducted and controlled. On the Finance Committee and after the Finance Committee, we said that the most elegant solution for us was the solution provided for by this amendment, because there was doubt that financial reports were in some way being cut off, that statistics might sometimes be shown in a way that does not correspond to the objective state-of-the-art, budget rebalancing, possible another budget rebalancing, who knows what way long health institutions are in public debt, turning public debt enterprises into public debt, shows that the state is still one of the worst employers and that, in the context of public finances, there is a government of organised chaos and dissuasion, which we claim all the time. What's the need now? It takes as many controllers as possible and for the controllers to control each other and cooperate with each other. That's how it's done in all serious states. This is how all the institutions that have been built and therefore the SPO-DHSS have never voted in this conference for either the budget or the budget rebalance, nor the laws that the state's debts will turn into public debt. As for banks, in private banks, where private capital is largely different from the Agrobank where the state had management rights and capital, or the Vojvodina Development Bank, which is literally corrupt and where the source of crime is. It's one of the only and main motives of SPO-DHSS that we've asked for even better control in public finances and for a single fiscal and monetary policy to be run because we see that this is now in public finance non-coordination, that there's a public hearing, that it obviously suits someone. The Serbian Renewal Movement has never transferred to an opposition party that voted in favour of European laws. The DS itself voted in favour of a few dozen European laws in this assembly of parliament. She never got her pucks from our MP group. We think it's a serious and responsible policy, but we don't understand why if SPO-DHSS does it, they get measles. We have an independent policy and we will never go in the opinion of any political party, not even the DS. We do not mind that both DS and LDP lead in some part a serious policy by supporting European laws and European solutions. That's why I say SPO and DHSS will vote for all the laws and all the changes for the better without going back to the past what was and how it was because people are interested in the future and how they will live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21078	Five minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk emissary, Vesna Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21079	As always, I stand for the story on the subject. One of the MPs, I forgot who, he initiated me to answer. Why? Because here, at one point, the revenues of the APR are mentioned, or that the APR is afraid to lose some income. Namely, I will remind all my dear colleagues, and the public as a whole, that it seems to me to be a member of the 5a Act on the Agency for Economic Registers found that the state authorities, local self-government, do not pay compensation for the data they receive from the APR. That's very important. This is not about any revenue cuts or concerns that the Business Registers Agency is afraid it will run out of income. All state authorities may, at the moment, obtain all information they need without compensation from the Agency for Economic Registers. There's something else I'd like to underline here. All the time, there's been a blizzard over the fact that the DS has initiated an amendment. I don't know why we can't admit to each other that there's been a dialogue here, that there's been a constructive agreement and that all representatives of the ruling coalition have agreed on what is the best solution for the economy and citizens of RS. I'd really like to point that out. So, we're all in favour of this dialogue. Let's underline -- now he's won the dialogue. Now he's won the deal. Now he has won the interest, positive for both the economy and the citizens of Serbia. That's all I wanted to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21080	It's been used two minutes since the parliamentary group's time. The people sent by Ivan Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21081	Dear colleagues, I wouldn't say there was any dialogue. We had a vote Friday. This is what the agreement with the representatives of the two parties within the government looked like, and to deny that these amendments were in line with the directive and in the end with our legislation, I will give you directives that are contrary to these amendments. The EU's First, Fourth, 7th Directive regulates the issue of drawing up and publishing annual financial reports. So it's Members 3. The first Directives are prescribed to be published in a register run by companies. There's no such register in the NB. That's the first reason. Another reason. The proposed amendments were not in line with the law to which they were submitted. The transitional and final provisions were out of the question. We had a situation in the midst of the submission of financial reports by consolidated companies, and that was October 30th, the NBS was due to take over the release as of November 1st. Do you have any idea what the time limit is in the Business Society Act? Five days. How would that be done? Who would bear the consequences, and who would answer for the damage that would have occurred if it hadn't been done? The name of the register in the amendments itself has been missed. Another important thing, seven other essential laws also deal with this area, deals with these registers, and these seven laws should be amended that the amendment has been accepted in an integrated form. I'm telling you, we're happy about it. I agree it was a dialogue. We felt that they had to comply with the directives, that it had to be cheap for companies and that it had to be fast and efficient. That's why we were in that attitude. As for the subsequent mind, I am sorry that this ex-post mind was not a little earlier in the case of European integration, because if some who wore badges 20 years ago remembered that we should be part of the EU, we might already be in it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21082	It was used two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21083	Thank you, Madam Chairman. What I would like to remind you and most of your colleagues is that we are now discussing an amendment to Article 41. The bill, that today is July 15th, 2013. It's not Friday either. It's not even Thursday. Those days are behind us. As for the diversity in thinking, I find it kind of strange when a criticism of differences in thinking comes from party representatives who seem to only have it in their prefix – democratic. In normal democratic societies, as I hope we are building our society, the diversity of the opinion that the agreement comes from, as counterpart Kovac said, coming out of quality, as counterpart Kovac said, I consider it a value rather than a stumbling block. For some who would like to make affairs out of everything by some who want to vulgarise politics, I think it is best for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to see and assess and assess in the elections that were behind us or who will come before us. As far as the EU directive is concerned, the government of the Republic of Serbia is committed to Serbia's accelerated path towards the EU. We, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have shown this to the brave political decisions it made in the previous period, which were materialized through getting a date for starting negotiations. Somehow, this respect from those who spent four years, and that we, as on the track, were still on that European path, constantly running, we became tired, and were equally distant from the EU, unlike now that we are still running, but when the goal is much closer and all because of the courageous political decisions and reform measures that this Government of the Republic of Serbia is making. The directives, which are said to be not respected, do not say that financial reports come to the APR. The experiences of countries, European countries, such as Belgium, such as Germany, are such that these reports go to central banks. You can't see the truth, and you can't look at things like that, looking at only one eye and what's right for you. The whole picture must be viewed, both financially and those directives read both the financial and the status reports from companies come to one address. What's that address? It is not indicated, but it is necessary to be one address, and nothing in all of this is wrong, as it is not wrong, and I am asking you to go back to the subject of the agenda and the amendment to Article 41, in a way that these data come to the APR and that they are used by the National Bank for a job that needs to be done. What I've also had for the last few minutes is burning my ears, and it's really an ex-post mind. One former minister from one former, thank God, the government when he spoke about the agencies said – and there are useful agencies. Does that mean there are those who aren't useful? Why did you start them? Why did you make them? Why have you nursed them, if they're useful, but they're useless? Why do we need those useless ones? Why were they useless? For what? For hiring party personnel? It's not enough to go out and say this government hired 10,000 party personnel and sat down without any responsibility. What about places where you still have a responsibility to hire? What about Belgrade? What about the AP Vojvodina? Where did Oliver Dulic get the job? Surgeon, orthopedic in the bathroom. (President: People's MP, you protested not to talk about the subject of the agenda, and I say we should observe...) Please listen to me, since it is my duty to interrupt and remind you. I believe this amendment means the broadest possible argument, but you've gone too far, to surgery and Oliver Dulic, so I ask you to do what is not too far from the amendment. ) What hurts you is that I touched the responsibility of the DS and I was very narrow when I talked about this amendment compared to the previous ones covering the period since 1999. (President: Please listen to me when I interrupt you because I want to take care of the order in the session.) I listen very carefully to you, as well as to other MPs, and everyone has the right to a broad argument and they had it in their presentations. I just reminded you of the surgery and Oliver Dulic's that it's very far from any context of submitting amendments to article 41 by the board. I'm not going to mention surgery, I'm just going to say that the party employment platform is Banja Vrdnik, who instead of masseurs is receiving orthopedics under political duty. PRESIDENT: Five minutes have been used since the parliamentary group's time, and 59 seconds have been used in an attempt to hold order together, with your help, and to conduct the debate on this amendment with a wide enough context, but with borders. The word has a folk emissary, Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21084	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, today we have an amendment that reflects one new policy that the Serbian government is trying to solve in some constructive way, and based on all those problems that have arisen in the past seven years. Why am I saying this? Because from the moment the SDK was shut down to the moment when the APR was practically established as an agency that accepts the financial reports of all economic operators, someone had to collect those reports. It was the National Bank of Serbia. Then, during the government of Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic, the National Bank of Serbia came and said at some point – we are no longer capable and we do not want these CDs and those envelopes to be collected, so let the APR do it now. At that moment, there were new agencies, independent businesses, where the simple state, or the National Bank of Serbia, had no control over the spending of funds. Where do we find evidence of that? We find in the report by the DRI, which decidently says, here is the case of a gentleman who led the Ministry of Natural Resources, i.e. the protection of the environment, who said in his report that the National Bank of Serbia, the Treasury Office has no project records, no funding as much as there is and what the Environment Fund is doing. It is one of the evidence that requires coordination between the APR and the National Bank of Serbia. We had two options. We had an option to return the National Bank of Serbia to be one place to gather, but it would cause great confusion and problems in the business of all economic operators. We also had this solution, which is that there is this coordination between the APR and the National Bank of Serbia. Is that called an information tunnel? Maybe that's what economists would say at some point. Engineers would say access to databases, information bases that in some ways want to be networked, or informed about how a business operator works, and based on which we receive certain statistics, but also very important information. The idea that maybe everyone should be informed about it is good, on the one hand. On the other hand, there is no way of not being informed about the business of certain economic operators. Finally, there is a protector of information of public importance that everyone can turn to, all relevant institutions and therefore obtain information, if they cannot access the APR bases and if they cannot access the NBS bases. It was obvious that the function of the National Bank of Serbia and the APR was systematically separated, that no financial records were kept, and it was obvious that this led to unprecedented costs that this Assembly did not control through the budget itself. That is why this is a compromise solution that eventually came up as the best solution. There was no political revote. What I've come up with is that it turns out that the interests of the economy are small, medium-sized enterprises are the interests of the DS. It is simply not good for one party to identify the interests of the economy with its policy because there is one broad political mile on Serbia's political scene and there are many parties and they all have their own representatives in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21085	Four minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21086	I'm reporting for the amendment. I always look forward to it when we get to the best solution. Today, as far as this amendment is concerned, we have come to the best solution. I especially look forward to it when we come to this best solution through a serious discussion and through a serious debate. I believe that this debate and discussion existed precisely within the ruling majority. Now the Assembly has just received an even greater quality and full capacity work and is not only the mere formality of voting in this Assembly, but through a serious debate and debate we have reached the best solution. The Agency for Economic Registers has been mentioned several times. For the sake of the public and for the sake of the truth, NAD and USAID published a survey yesterday saying that the Agency for Business Registers is currently the most popular institution in the Republic of Serbia, with 70% positive estimates by businessmen. So the businessmen gave the assessment that it is currently the most popular and best institution in the Republic of Serbia. The Business Registers Agency website visits 80,000 visitors daily. There is a catalog on the site that allows access to all users, which is defined again in collaboration with businesses. They have just created this service catalogue provided by the Agency for Business Registers. European Commission reports say the Business Registers Agency in Serbia is fully in line with EU standards in the part of the registration. In the past two years, the director of the Agency for Business Registers has twice chaired the Association of European Registers. Also, for the sake of the public, for the sake of truth, the only jury account of the Agency for Economic Registers has always been in the Treasury and is subject to government control and all acts of compensation carried out by the Agency for Economic Registers, gives all consent to the Government. These are only data that support that the Agency for Business Registers is a very serious institution and I think it is very incorrect that today some colleagues want to downplay their work, which is recognised not only by our businessmen, but also by those relevant factors across Europe. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21087	It's been used two minutes and 30 seconds since the authorized representative's time. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21088	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, of course it's not a topic, the government of Zoran Djindjic spent two years and it was a very difficult procedure because there were many lobbies, not to lie, first of all in our judicial system, which had that authority registration, and all of us here in Serbia can be satisfied that this resistance was broken at the end. Some of the political parties present here were not in agreement with that at the time, I remember that well. Yes, the fact is that today Serbia has one of the most efficient access to financial data in Europe and beyond. That's why we need to strengthen that power. How do we strengthen that power? By opening that information, and it has to be financed exactly as much as it needs to perform its function, and then that information has to be publicly well and accessible to everyone. It was the purpose of our discussion this morning on the Committee and we will return, seeing that we have some agreement, perhaps not with this party, but with some others, to make these changes. A few strange things were said here. The National Bank of Serbia is not here to control the economy, and we heard that now. No, it's not her ingenuity. We heard someone's defending SDK. We're not going back to some system where one center has access to all the transactions, are we? To remember that system, he could and sometimes abused it, stopped paying both sides and entered basic, basic democratic rights. That's why there's payment traffic in banks. There is no question that there are industrial reasons why this payment traffic could have been centralized. If one day it's possible to share it and share the costs without respecting democracy, why not. But when we talk about things and it's said that it's very important that the NBS has insight into it, of course, we supported it, but we just want it to be open to everyone who works in the interest of our citizens. When we talk about reports, I have to tell you that, for example, The law on public enterprises does not respect the part that predicts that every quarter of public enterprises must publish their financial reports. Not only that, but a large number of them have not yet announced a financial plan for this year. So, the National Bank, the APR and all of us would have to by law know what's going on here. I think we need to avoid an affair and some kind of behavioral matrix. Today we hear – and that was NBS's intelligence and it will always be, and it's good that they have insurance companies and I'm happy that I was part of that discussion. You yourself, sir, fellow MP, have confirmed it – it is a good thing they have that authority. So we're not talking about the National Bank and the APR here. There are some functions that are important and it's good that they're being implemented, and what's not good, is that this matrix of behavior is now being transferred to the relationship between the National Bank and the banks. Here, today we have on the front page of a National Bank speculation daily that maybe the banks have hidden 50m euros. There's a rumor that it's going into some kind of control, and that control might lead to something they didn't show. I have to tell you, if the banks didn't comply with the law, they have to pay for it and they have to be punished by law. Anyone who does not respect the law must be punished, but this way – announcing that perhaps something is wrong in the financial reports, it is something that is not in the interests of the state, not in the interest of our economy. The answer to that will be something inevitable, which is that the banks will be even less active than they were active until today. I remind you, honourable MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, from 5 October to today, for the first time in the first quarter, this year our economy has been reduced. There is no need to look for an affair where there may be no affair, and if there is, it should be implemented by the institutions of the system and possibly by those who did not respect the regulations will be punished. This estradisation of everything has adverse effects on the economy. If all banks are guilty now, don't expect some bankers to do their job, give credit. We can't play with the country like this. One who violates the law must be punished, but tabloidisation and speculation are not something that is good for us. Therefore, I call on the NBS to absolutely punish when control is carried out and to see that someone has broken the law according to financial reports, which she must anyway, first of all, she must have and control it. But this approach, I'm afraid, will lead to a further reduction in indifference. Remember, banks pulled 1.5 billion euros out of our economy last year, which is 3% of GDP. If this continues, I'm afraid that what we see as a fall in overall economic activity, which leads to rebalancing, will continue. That's why, I conclude, the last time I'm gonna answer this, no one here is attacking the APR, I'm proud to be part of that government that initiated it, and no one here is attacking the NBS on this issue. On the contrary, we wanted this morning under this amendment to make what is now provided for it available to the entire state, to all its institutions and to take advantage of that plus, that activity of the Republic of Serbia, which it has in that institution, that it works in the best interests of all our citizens. On the other hand, I have to tell you, as far as this agency story is concerned, don't expect a demagogue from us. There's good agencies, there's bad agencies, but if you think they're bad, stop them. You're in power. After a year of ruling, what do you honor us with some bad agencies? Do you like SDK? So bring him back. Vote the bill and take the banks' payment traffic and return the SDK nicely. You don't like the Agency? Well, get rid of it. The Democratic Party has been the opposition for over a year. We're doing our job. If it's all our fault, why are you getting ready to replace so many ministers and State Secretary and Assistants? Maybe they weren't ideal, maybe there's that responsibility, so it's time to take responsibility. You're the government. You are responsible today if something does not work well in the domain of "reporting", i.e. Financial reports and you're responsible if there's an agency in one day that you don't think is good and is not necessary. Don't mix categories that are part of democracy. You will respond to the election for your effect. No one will believe you that your effect after this year, two to three years, is all a question of DS, and no one believes it anymore, and I see in your eyes when you take the word that you no longer believe it. So much for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21089	Five minutes and 35 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. ) No replica will be allowed in the debate on the amendment to Article 41 for Article 27. We will discuss all amendments to Article 1 and all groups have plenty of time. That way we can secure order at the session. National MP Branislav Mitrovica is talking about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you, if we intend to use the injuries of the Rules of Procedure instead of replicas, to read carefully all the views of Article 103. I also ask that we do not do this, respecting the joint desire to clarify everything about the Committee's amendment, but to be within the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21090	Madam Chairman, I point out the violation of article 106, and I'm joining you to return to the agenda. In previous discussions there were plenty of stories about elections, about trust, about the previous period, about the next period, and nowhere in the Accounting Act I read the words – elections. I ask you and I urge you to direct this debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in the best direction, and I am sure that you can do it, and let's start talking about the amendment to Article 41 and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21091	People's MP, I have already explained to the Rules of Procedure that I listen very carefully to all the MPs, making sure that we talk about the amendment tabled by the Committee after the dialogue, after the context in which one amendment was submitted and withdrawn, after the dialogue being conducted in both the Assembly and the committees. If you want a strict application of Article 106, it is a coincidence with Article 27, which I should take care of in the sitting order. If you would like me to repeat to you what the amendments to article 41 have said to any MP of all MPs who participated, it would be my very brief presentation. I'll really try to round up this debate, just please don't get too far away from the context debate. National MP Zoran Babic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21092	Madam Chairman, the Rules of Procedure, Article 107(2) of the previous speaker, has been injured, not referring to a colleague who has advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure with which I fully agree. But you haven't interrupted a speaker who, acting to him, commented on how members of this House's ruling work see whether they trust the government, don't trust the government. What's that look? Are these some surreal possibilities and abilities of the minister for all and all over the past 10-12 years. You didn't interrupt him. Therefore, do not be selective. Don't let when you're covered by the government's criticism, that it's tolerated and that it turns its head to the other side, and then when I report to the agenda, when I report for replication and answer questions, and the answer is very simple, you don't allow anything like that. There is neither democracy nor respect for the Rules of Procedure. So stop breaking the Rules of Procedure. I ask that this be made known to the National Assembly in voting day. No one has the right to comment on the views of other Members of the People without you, using the Rules of Procedure, warning that MP. I also demand, because a series of questions have been raised to which there is a very simple answer which consists in one word, which DS and you as a representative of DS do not see, you do not feel, you do not know, and that is – responsibility. Because of the responsibility and reconstruction of the government, responsibility is what we have been looking for for for the past 10-12 years, responsibility is for all the agencies that are designed for sucking and spending people's money, responsibility is something that you don't recognize or know. That's why I demand the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21093	People's MP, of course the Assembly will declare itself in the day of voting on your request for the right to reply. Repeat the application of the Rules of Procedure and a member who regulates the giving of the right to the replica: "The Republic decides the chairman" and because it decides the chairman, cannot be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and it cannot yet be the reasoning of the Member 107, because you claim that Article 107(2) is injured, which says: "A session of the National Assembly is not allowed to directly address the MP to another MP, using offensive expressions, nor is it the statement of facts and assessments relating to the private life of other persons". The speaker to whom your objection refers or addressed any MP directly, nor did he express offensive expressions, nor did he speak the facts of private life. National MP Bozidar Djelic, in one sentence, when I wanted to respond, referred to the APR, perhaps longer than necessary, but since the APR was referred to by MP Branislav Mitrovica, that the state of the National Bank also spoke of the National MP Aleksandra Tomic, the responsibilities of the National Bank, and that he did not speak offensively, was not interrupted. Had he not continued properly, he would have been warned and interrupted and reminded of the rules of the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Babic, from the place: Article 106) People's MPs, you can't ask me to hurt a member of the 106s when I speak. I'm not talking about the agenda ever. I'm giving you an explanation. When I give you an explanation, then I'm talking about the agenda, since it's my obligation, under Article 103. I can't break a member who's talking about the agenda, because I'm not talking about the agenda point, I'm talking about the obligation of Article 103. (Zoran Babic, from the post: By amendment. ) National MP, if you are going to speak according to the amendment, you will have to wait for the order, since the word has a People's MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21094	Dear colleagues, I was just talking about proposing an amendment, going back on the subject, not respecting Article 3. First Directives. You said yourself that she said there shouldn't be two registers. You have introduced two registers of these amendments by providing in your amendments that the reports are financially delivered in two places. I think it's simply a confession that the amendments were not prepared enough, I think, and unprofessionally drawn up. As regards access to financial reports, 80,000 citizens have daily access to APR reports and this is fully possible by the Business Registers Agency Act, in Article 5. We suggested, if the problem is, that the National Bank then has, which today is offered as a solution, direct access to the bases. It is not disputed, but I think that a problem has been made primarily because of mutual misunderstandings within the ruling majority and parties because one party that has in some way taken responsibility for an independent institution such as the National Bank wants to have an impact and impact on its reporting, as well as on the Register of Financial Reports and Data on the Bonity of Legal Persons and Entrepreneurs. That what I'm saying is true, a conference was held on the NAED media on Friday, which has criticised the proposed amendments and said that they are not in line with the European Directive and that they are not in line with the principle of one-stop shop that we have applied ourselves in our country and are not in line with our efforts to bring our legislation into line with European legislation. Also, all institutions of the state have free access to APR data and this is the Law on the Agency for Economic Registers. As far as DS is concerned, we are satisfied that our suggestion has been accepted, simply so as not to accept one proposal that would not be in agreement with the spirit of pro-European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21095	Two minutes and twenty seconds used by the MP's group. National MP Zoran Babic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21096	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of article 106. Rules of Procedure, and I also ask you to stop flagrantly violating the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You just said a sentence that describes your work over the past hour. And you said – when Mr. Djelic said that, that and that, I wanted to react. You're not here, Madam Chairman, that we know when you wanted or didn't want to react. You're here to react to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and these violations of the Rules of Procedure have been done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21097	People's MP, have you made a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the 106th People's MP, Bozidar Djelic, in a previous announcement? (Zoran Babic, from the place: No. ) You are now repeating the violation of the Rules of Procedure at the exhibition of Bozidar Djelic. People's MP, fortunately there are stenograms. So I am now obliged to act when the MP does not want to respect all the views of Article 103. I don't think either of you, or I don't see that taking good care of the agenda at the session. I repeat, the replica of the chairman's decision, during the debate on an important process of amendments submitted by the committee, there will be no replica about the dialogue that was being conducted by the team. We have time at our disposal. Please, if you want to talk about me hurting a member of the 106th, then give some other MP, because you must not, on the basis of Article 103, warn twice that I have committed this offence while there has been a presentation of the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21098	Member of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly. I didn't speak, and I didn't use that time to replicate to Mr Djelic, and I have no reason because no one believes him in Serbia anymore. Whatever he says, I have no reason to replicate. What I was saying, I was talking about your relationship...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21099	People's MP, I don't know why we don't understand each other. I'm going to have to read Article 103 by attitude. You can sit down. This explanation will take time. Article 103 first position - The National MP has the right to orally point to a violation of the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, and it is done at the session of the National Assembly that is under way, immediately after the injury has been done. By applying this attitude, I reminded you that you are obliged to apply the article 106 to another exposure. Second position - The National MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly he has already pointed out. And that's what I asked you to do. The third position – The President of the National Assembly gives a word to the MP who points to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Rule 1 of this Member immediately following the completion of the presentation of the previous speaker, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. And I applied this attitude. The fourth position – The National MP is obliged to specify which member of this Rules of Procedure is injured by the conduct of the President of the Assembly and to explain what the infringement consists of, by being able to speak for up to two minutes. And that attitude was applied. The next position - If the injury is not considered to have been done, the President of the National Assembly is obliged to give an explanation, and if he considers that the injury has been committed, the President of the National Assembly is required to remove the injury done. And I applied that attitude, since I provide an explanation after every apparent violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The next position - If, even after explaining the President of the National Assembly, the MP thinks that the injury has been committed, he may demand, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly be declared without a search, in the day of the vote. And I have applied that position of Member 103 three times at the request of the MPs. The next position - The President of the National Assembly is obliged to abuse the rights provided for in Articles 1, 2, 4 and 6 of this Article, which have just been read, or in another obvious way, to abuse the rights provided for in this Article, as provided for in Articles 108 to 111 of this Rules of Procedure. I have not applied this attitude, and I will not apply it in the debate on the amendment to Article 41. The next position – In the case referred to in Article 7(1), the President of the National Assembly is required that the time used by the MP using the right referred to in Article 1 shall take away from the total amount of time that belongs to his parliamentary group in search of the current item of the agenda, if his parliamentary group remains time to search. And this attitude won't apply either, because there's no reason, because I think we can agree together on the application of Article 103. So I ask you, if you want to talk about the violation of article 106 which speaks of the obligation of the MP to speak about the agenda, that the explanation of your request does not refer to the presentation of the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21100	Thank you. I believe that neither the whole of Serbia, as I understood you, with these insolent explanations of something that cannot be explained. What I will not allow, that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are violated, that your presidency of the National Assembly is used to give words and speeches that have nothing to do with the agenda, nor with the amendment to Article 41, but also about the NBS and the governor of the NBS and all things that have nothing to do with the amendment. I'll get back to you, even if I get punished from here and do anything. Stop breaking the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You're not here, I quote as you said - when I wanted to react. You're here to react, or place yourself in someone who will react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21101	National MPs except that your argument is neither in line with article 106 nor in violation of article 107 if you wish the Assembly to declare itself in the day of the vote? (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Of course.) Of course you do. In voting day, the assembly will declare the violation of the Rules of Procedure, carried out by MP Zoran Babic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21102	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Yes, I'm reporting under this amendment to a member of the 41st Committee, which is why this session was postponed from Thursday when it was due to begin at 1:30 p.m., so here we are. Here, for over an hour or more, there has been an argument with the forces of replicas and with a strong indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Only this amendment submitted by the Committee, which then explicitly requested that the report be submitted to the APR's annual financial report. Then a compromise solution was found for the weekend that, in fact, the APR is obliged to submit all those reports that will be of interest to the NBS, which will be required. By listening to this debate, I had no intention of including myself, but simply as a MP who has worked on these laws and our party has been most amended and submitted, it is debated for hours on a single amendment that actually speaks and shows how important the financial reports and data that are in them are and how important it is for who to have insight, not to say, to control those financial reports. How does our country function, or our government and our ministries? It is obvious that when one ministry has an exclusive insight into something called the financial report and the financial situation of our economy, because there are absolutely all legal persons, including the legal sector, the one holding it, so to speak, the information has the greatest power. I just can't take the impression and probably not the professional public, and at least the citizens who are following this, is there a fight here to really be transparent, that really these important data only have an APR, or just one ministry, or just one party, because we operate, one party, one ministry, all agencies within that ministry have information and information that monitors that area? So, probably when you realize that it's very important, that someone else can't control all that data, let's find some compromise solution, and then the third party, who says, gets involved, well, if the National Bank can't and doesn't, then let's all the state authorities, or institutions that need that data, have this right to get from the APR. Once again we tell you and we point out how important this Law on Accounting and the Law on Auditation is and how important it is to the essential things of the economy and economy of a country. It is not only important for this amendment, which is compromised now in this form, as it is, that we have all submitted much more amendments to significantly improve these legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21103	Time was used by the authorised representatives of the parliamentary group with these three minutes, and time available to the parliamentary group was 26 minutes, so the debate period was used in the next debate. National MP Dejan Radenkovic, with my apologies, was the order for you to receive the word before the National MP Gorica Gajic, because it was her name after yours. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21104	It doesn't matter when it comes to a colleague. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are pleased when compromises are reached, consensus, what we advocate and, of course, we need to cross arguments and come to what is the right and only solution, normally, all in order for these laws to come to life as soon as possible and simply introduce themselves into some quieter waters, when it comes to business. I'm going to have my discussion today, as authorized in front of the parliamentary group, based on what I started on the story of the Social Accounting Service. I am sorry that a colleague, sitting among us, does not get up and tells the citizens of Serbia – I was the finance minister at the time, I abolished the Social Accounting Service, the reasons were you, you, and you, and the data says that today we have serious consequences when the Social Accounting Service is abolished, and today the tax administration has found that about 360 billion dinars are owed on the basis of taxes and contributions, and it is only 30. These are the effects of abolishing, these are the effects of a robbery that is simply hidden from some laws, that it was good at the time, that it was not a democratic principle, I don't see any reason it's not true, when you enter a warrant in Belgrade for a fraction of a second you see money in the account of it down there. When we started with business banks, then there were problems, how many banks, when the clearings, what time, when, did this check, did this payment, did you need to move on? So, I'm just grounded to suspect that there was some intention then and let a colleague explain to me, I'll accept the arguments that there was any good other reason to abolish then such an institution that had also had a control mechanism. So we simply left it simple then and the opening of the firm and the bankruptcy proceedings to be without any control. That just resulted in today having 500,000 people out of our jobs. It all fits into what was going on, to say, in a set of privatizations, what we call them, where those who bought those factories, destroyed them, kicked the workers out of the street, pulled the money out of those factories, and we simply have reason to say it was an institution, and of course not just us, it's heard from people who were then the leaders of these democratic changes, to complain about such an institution. Of course, this compromise solution, when we talk about an amendment to Article 41, is excellent. The National Bank must have insight and no one should have given himself the right not to provide information to the National Bank for their needs. There have been such situations, so there have been disagreements and there has been a solution that has occurred and, of course, the Committee has proposed these two amendments, which will simply lead the National Bank to have full insight into its needs, when businesses and their reports are at stake. Once again, I ask my colleague to stand up and tell us one good argument which is why it was then done, unless it is later, we know what the sequence of events is and of course it is part of these investigations that are being conducted about a privatisation, which the EU is asking us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21105	Four minutes and 30 seconds were used from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21106	I won't be long, just to say, I'm actually wondering if you're part of this ruling coalition or not? So don't ask me what you're supposed to do. You're the government. If the SPS is about to pass a law that returns SDK, please suggest, and then we'll talk about it, see what's good, what's wrong with that. What was happening was that it was a united state and society, that all financial transactions within the state, both between the state and the citizens and between the citizens were going through the same channel. Let's not be naive, we knew well that it was a way of control and politics over our lives, that this one party could see who he was paying for and on what grounds it could stop, because he keeps all these levers in his hands. That's the real reason. If you don't like it, don't ask me, I've made our point and we've done it, we're in charge. Don't say that now, the fact that payments in banks are now a reason for unemployment. Your party was in power in 1999, did we have SDK? Were we bombed? Is that what the SDK or the policy that's been led for? (President: National MP, please, not so far from the amendment. ) Let us not constantly interfere, talk about the amendment and the DS has initiated to withdraw the amendment last week, which was not in line with European standards, as the SDK does not comply with European standards, and that is our success today. We wanted to take a step further this morning and we wanted to adopt an opportunity for all parts of the state and public institutions, to have the same way that this amendment, which is now proposed, will be allowed to have direct access. We're told -- he can't, he's got some tunnel, he's got some information tunnel, and the head of the Joint Chief of Staff said it wasn't a bad idea. Okay, so we'll be back on that subject soon and the DS will come up with an appropriate legal proposal that in the whole part of our country everyone has the same access to this useful information as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21107	Two minutes and 15 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. Is anyone else answering for a word in search of this amendment? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21108	Thank you, Vice President. I don't know why she's nervous. There's no reason. That's perfectly clear, the citizens know that. So I was talking about that day that we destroyed this country so much and it was so destroyed that people were out of their jobs, I don't know what you had so much to sell, and what are so many of your friends that you brought in as investors from this country? Why are such debts based on taxes and contributions? Why did many officials, together with you, later settle in these banks in the seats of the chairman of the boards of directors, the owner of these banks' shares? Why did you provide foreign banks with the huge profits they made out of this country? Please tell the citizens why you destroyed the domestic banks, are there reasons and why you did it? Tell us. Say it, be honest. Tell the citizens of Serbia. Don't take responsibility for someone else's guilt. You're you, you were the finance minister back then. You were the Minister for European Integration, so why didn't you bring us into the EU then?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21109	People's MP, if you can get a little closer to the amendment. It was used one minute and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. I ask you, if we report for an amendment debate, at least that width that we're arguing on is relatively close, when it comes to the subject of the amendment to Article 41. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21110	Madam Chairman, I still have to answer. You know how, we had SDK and yes, I was the finance minister and four pensions weren't paid. We had SDK and two years of child support had not been paid. We had a SDK and we had an external debt that was 160% of GDP. That was the effect of those times. Let's not come back at that time now, because you're gonna lose on that ground, but that's not the point. Today, the topic, today in Serbia, is the indifference of the economy. We are talking about financial indicators and this amendment that we are now discussing should also ensure that monetary authority has access to that information in the same way. I'm just reminding you, the procedure is one thing, the essence is another. In our country today, profitability falls greatly and very quickly. The shared information will show that 2013 continues a major drop in profitability and banks and the real sector. We are now discussing things that no longer have reality or opportunity to return. Dear colleague, I suggest you, now that there is recognition next week and through reconstruction, that it is not all very well and in the best order and coalition in this government, we will let you discuss it with each other, but when the Law on Government comes to the Assembly, we will also discuss it as an opposition. We simply suggest that in a situation like this we do not waste valuable time in past stories. We have to talk about how to get the liquidity back, we have to organize the state in such a way that those good things we have and the APR is one good thing, it doesn't use it to force some, to use its position which is, by nature, monopoly, by nature, things, so that's in some sense, and that if you want that European standard, which is there to ensure that businesses hand over their financial reports to one place, and thus gives the monopoly to that place. It's very important, and it's our responsibility here to ensure that it happens that it goes to one place without taking advantage of it, to charge too much and not to deliver that information to everyone. That's the topic today. The only thing we agreed was that it's good in the structure of our country to make it even better. That's the point of the discussion today on the committee we had. I'm just sorry, although some have agreed during the discussion that DS arguments are correct, why they didn't accept them today, and this amendment has already been able to give one win to our country today. Let's talk, colleagues, about the present, talk about the future. I believe that's all we're in this room for, and that's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21111	It's been used three minutes since the parliamentary group's time. Is anyone else reporting for a search in the details of the amendment to Article 41 submitted by the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the title above Articles 42 and 42 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21112	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Articles 42, 43 and 44. The draft law regulates the establishment, work cycle and composition of the National Accounting Commission. The National Accounting Commission is educated under the Law on Accounting and Audit in 2006 and its work in part and under this proposal of the law should be able to follow the process of applying the EU Accounting Directive and follow the process of applying international standards of financial reporting and give an opinion to the Ministry on the translation of these standards, as well as solutions to any problems that may arise in the process of applying these standards. The National Commission, under the draft law, should have seven members, i.e. the president and six members, and of which five members delegate, proposes, however, the Ministry of Finance and one member of the NBS and the Securities Commission. Looking at this section of what the National Accounting Commission is doing, and listening to what the profession says, simply, the National Accounting Commission has not justified its existence for seven, eight years, as long as it exists, or has not improved its financial reporting system and has not shown itself as an important factor in everything called accounting and financial reporting. That is why this amendment suggests that members 42, 43 and 44 are deleted, I will not report for these two next members later, because it has not met its expectations. Perhaps it would have been better if this bill had given the possibility to form an independent body consisting of professional professionals and individuals who would certainly have contributed much more to the better quality of the bill and to better quality its establishment, i.e. to apply it in practice. Simply, there, perhaps, we are making a proposal, that representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Agency for Economic Registers, the National Bank, the Securities Commission, professional organisations or the academic professional public should sit, and that the bodies should be burdened by the Financial Ministry of Finance, but be financed by the institutions that delegate it. Most often these members and officials in the state authorities are employed, receiving some of their salaries. In the description of their jobs, there is mainly a lot of what gets into the work that is given to this Article 42, and they also receive these fees for meetings and for monitoring the application of the Directive and monitoring the process of applying the IFRS, so simply because of the cost reduction and because it has not met its expectations we propose that the National Accounting Commission does not exist in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21113	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the title above Articles 43 and 43 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic together submitted to the title above the members of the 44th and the 44th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21114	The reasons for this article are the same as those of Article 42. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21115	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the title above members of the 46th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21116	Thank you, Vice President. Article 46 speaks of fines provided for by legal persons and related to commercial offences. The bill stipulates that such punishment should be from 100,000 dinars to 3,000,000. Among other things, the penalty may be prescribed for non-assembly of accounting documents in accordance with this law, and if a legal person does not keep a business book in accordance with the Accounting Act. It is clear that the laws in this country must be respected. I am absolutely sure that many businessmen have been punished for a commercial offense under a previous law called the Accounting and Audit Act. Whenever the state needs fresh money, so to speak, then competent inspections do their job, but then the question is, should the law apply to all or only certain economic operators? Has RTB "Bor" ever been punished on this basis for economic crime and parent and addictive society? If we know that both 2009, 2010 and 2011, they did not operate and apply the Accounting and Audit Act and international standards, then it is clear that both dependent societies and parent companies were to suffer the consequences of such penalties. I'm absolutely convinced something like that didn't happen. Then why are there criminal provisions? In my opinion, the criminal provisions of any law should apply to everyone. This National Assembly, i.e. The previous one, in the previous session, gave guarantees for credit to the Canadian Bank, related to construction, i.e. the reconstruction of Topionica and the construction of the sulphuric acid factory in the Mining-Topionic Baseline Bor. Such guarantees are over 100m euros. The fact is, on November 1st, it should start with the work of a reconstructed melting plant. The fact is, these papers won't be finished until November 1st. According to the independent auditor's report, RTB, Toplice and Refinance is over-indebted because it has an insolvency coefficient of 0.994. The necessary income to come to a positive zero should be higher by almost 40% than they had in 2011. Then the question arises, that if the National Assembly here provides guarantees for loans to be recovered from RTB Bor, even though we know that Toplice and Refindation do not have enough revenue to be positive, from where the right to buy them, e.g. furniture for the RTB club? Em, what RTB Bor reconstructed that bar, banquet hall for 173 million dinars, and that was a small one, so now it takes the Dependent Society of Topionice and Refinition RTB to buy more, please also furniture. On the other hand, who's gonna repay the loan? This year, since it was previously a three-year grace period, it is due to start paying off the loan. Unofficial RTB Bor has no money. There's no money amongst other things, and it's because it gives some people copper on a delayed payment. I have received a letter from RTB, from their public relations service telling me, now the minister doesn't know if you'll be able to answer this question, that RTB Bor is giving the state order to copper on delayed strawberry cables, copper cylinders in Sevojn, and even "Farmacoma", and even on delayed payments to those domestic customers who don't have state protection. What's this letter from RTB? Whose government order is it that RTB Bor, which means, which is due, to Farmacomu, who we know is in the blockade, copper without advance? Is that possible? The second question is that, given that Farmakom is holding the Lec mine, under whose orders RTB workers were paid at RTB, worked a few months before the Lec mine opened. Does Blagoje Spaskovski, coffee has something to do with that mine? Is he, for example, a member of the Management Board? Every law, I believe that you as a government have the best intention of separating the Accounting and Audit Law and making two laws, that you have the best intention of improving financial discipline. But as long as the minister, the law applies to one, and to the other, we will have no better financial discipline in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21117	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanić submitted to the title above Articles 48 and 48 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21118	Madam Chairman, here is only the article 48 and the title above article 48, the Democratic Party of Serbia proposes to change and to read - recognition of acquired titles. Namely, by the day of entry into force of this law, some expertise has been acquired, according to the accounting laws of 1993, to this day, I propose, and there are nearly 40,000 of them, yet some of the professional instruments that have been created for decades back, profiled, we simply suggest that all these people who have acquired these expertises and professional skills, according to these early laws, retain those titles by this law. We simply need to protect the profession that has been back-profile for years, to stay, to last, and to be implemented in everything regarding the Accounting and Financial Reports Act. It's the profession that carried this job and that's how it should stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21119	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of dedicated funds have submitted an amendment to Article 51. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for REVISION LAW, search in particular. You have received amendments submitted by MPs on the bill: Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andric, Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and resolution committee have not accepted the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21120	Thank you. Article 3 The draft audit law is almost identical with Article 3. The draft law on accounting, and so is our amendment, so to speak, maltene analogous and that amendment to Article 3 of the Bill on Accounting. In the proposal for a law on audit, Article 3 says - that they translate international standards of audit - is determined by the Ministry. So, the solution is determined by the Ministry, which means from this attitude that determines the date of application, along with the text of the translation, the Ministry publishes in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", and on the Ministry's website. We propose by amendment that Article 3 be amended and read – "A professional organisation that is a member of the International Federation of Accountants and Auditors, translates and publishes international standards of audit, according to approval, and in accordance with the procedures of international regulatory bodies. Professional organisations perform their functions in accordance with the laws and acts of professional and ethical self-regulatory." I say again, and in this bill, you have, in your explanation, said that you do not accept the amendment because these standards that we accept from international audit standards are thus becoming a bill, and thus the state itself, or the Ministry, cannot transfer its sovereign right of regulation to some professional organisations. But the law does not state who translates those international review standards again. Who translates them by being determined by the Ministry? In the previous Accounting and Audit Act, we had a clear view that the Ministry established a solution and gave translation rights to a legal person and is now said to be – if the legal person is members of international audit and accounting organisations or institutions. If such an international organisation exists professionally, and if it has concluded a contract, and if it is a member of international audit institutions, it has both the right and the obligation to translate those standards. But obviously that we are not to advocate one or the other, we simply want, the truth for the sake of transparency, the information is that we know who will translate them, that we know who will establish them and publish them, who will translate them, whether it costs something and how much it costs, because obviously behind many proposals and laws, which come from the government and many proposals that come from the side, through a public debate later, have some influence regarding financial flows. So that's just what we're interested in. We don't affect which professional organization it will be. If there are, if there are members of some international bodies and if they have rights and obligations under those contracts that they have agreed to do so, is it something that costs the state, the citizens, the ministry? Who's supposed to keep doing that, if not them anymore? Does the ministry call in any public procurement or tender? Who's gonna do it in the future and who's paying for it? At the very least, we're interested in costs and who's going to do it and are there other interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21121	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21122	Article 21 is, I could say, one of two or three essential members in this bill, and it concerns the obligation to audit. Article 1 of the Law states – the revision is mandatory for regular annual financial reports of large and medium-sized legal entities, which are classified in accordance with the law governing accounting, and public companies in accordance with the law governing the capital market and entrepreneurs whose business income is achieved in the previous financial year exceeds four million and 400 000 euros in dinar equivalent. We propose that article 21 be changed and read – the revision of financial reports is mandatory for large legal entities, for legal persons who draw up consolidated financial reports if the value of the assets, i.e. the income of the parent and dependent legal entities without internal transactions in the collection make up a large legal person and issuers of securities of value and other financial instruments that broadcast through public offerings. The large legal entities, within the meaning of Article 1, banks and other financial organisations, stock exchanges, brokerage and distillers, insurance companies, financial lease donors, voluntary pension funds, voluntary pension funds management companies and investment funds, shall be considered as well. The revision of public companies' financial reports is carried out in accordance with a special law governing the area of public sector audit. The regulation of the audit obligation for entrepreneurs whose income exceeds four million and 400 000 euros per year we create them, I would say, an unnecessary commitment. It's the same for medium-level legal entities and entrepreneurs. It's mostly management and control function in one. There is no breach of public interest if there is no mandatory financial audit, because those legal entities, especially entrepreneurs, will review their financial report depending on when they need it. Whether there will be any status changes, whether there will be sales, or whether a foreign investor will come to invest some money in them, we assume that they will then review their financial report for those needs. This way, if we make them all mandatory to do financial audits, which is about 109 thousand legal entities, we're going to get out of the economy over 30 million euros and spill over into the audit sector, especially since we know that there are now some 57 audit houses, and we know that for most of the years, there have been almost all the consulting and audits in our country and in the public sector and in the large legal entities, that is, almost all the privatisations that have been going on for years back in our country. Most of these audit reports were paid out of the budget, i.e. on the burden of our citizens, were largely numbered or staged, as 80% of the audit reports would not have been back in the 80% of the years given a positive assessment of the financial reports. There was no responsibility as the audit was done, there was no control over what the results of the audit were, and in practice we know what the real situation is – and a destroyed economy and hundreds of thousands of jobs, so that I don't repeat myself, so that I don't have a story of demagogue. We suggest that we spare the costs of the private sector, these small enterprises, or entrepreneurs, not to impose on them the obligation of financial audit, but to work as necessary, while large legal entities and public sector legal entities remain bonds, but already, when the public sector is concerned, we have DRI, so it is much more of its obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21123	The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21124	Article 21 has increased the amount of revenue, thereby practically reducing the number of applicants of the future mandatory audit. On the one hand, this can be good, for that is how business is relieved. On the other hand, it can be bad, because no one will be able to do that real independent control of the work of certain companies. We think and we are certain that the revision of this country is necessary. Auditors are highly appreciated in the EU. We believe that this country should continue to work on the fact that there are as many auditors in this country as possible. In this way, we think that many workers who are already working in existing audit houses will be out of work. The fact is that the DRI needs to control the work of the government, the ministries, the local self-government, but we've been able to see from practice that the DRI doesn't have enough people and there's not enough capacity to process all the public enterprises and local self-government that are in its jurisdiction. This is why private auditors are reviewing the work of local self-government. For this reason, we believe, due to an increase in financial discipline, that it should not have put such a large amount of four million and 400,000 euros as a limit for the initial line of review.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21125	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21126	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev and Bojana Bozanic submitted together to the 110th amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) I hereby conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON FACTORING You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Milica Radović and Miroslav Petkovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The People's MPs Bojana Bozanic and Dusica Morčev together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment complies with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have before us a debate in particular on the proposal for a factoring law, a completely new law, which aims to regulate a financial area that is, however, taking place on our financial market six to eight years ago, meaning, sometime since 2005-2006, which is the financial service of the factoring, or the granting of short-term claims, present or future, between legal persons. The aim of this law should be to increase the legal certainty of factoring participants. So far, that job has been going on, but there was no legal regulation. Thus, as it is said in the explanation, and we agree, it should help much more small and medium-sized enterprises, to make their captive craftsmen in the demands of freedom and to place themselves in some of their other production bids. In fact, back in years, and especially in five to six years since the global economic crisis, deadlines for requests between legal persons for the sale of goods or services were capable of being six, eight, nine, even 12 months. It was very difficult to collect its claim due to the general uncertainty of the economy, due to the general lack of money on the market, so that small and medium-sized enterprises were forced to respond to factoring services, first of all, banks, organisations and houses that offered factoring services in the banks and to make their claims available to liquid assets, and so that, due to their poor credit rating and inability to use classic loans in domestic and foreign banks, they managed to get free money. It is good that this law now regulates and that claims can also be made when it comes to state-owned enterprises and the public sector. (President: I remind you that the debate is in particular. ) We expect that many legal persons who have been dealing with state-owned public enterprises can be subject to their claims that the risk of billing is transferred to factoring houses. It is also good that small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. suppliers or cooperatives above all, call them whatever, according to large manufacturing companies and large trade chains, can now make these claims from these large houses available on the market. They couldn't do this before because the type contracts of large houses, large trade chains, made it impossible for our domestic suppliers, if it were trade chains, to grant their claims. They just couldn't do it. And in principle, we have little principles on the subject, starting with the fact that, as explained, this factoring law, among other things, will affect the competitiveness of the financial market offer, which will partially reduce the price of capital in the financial market. However, if we start from the fact that today the claims are still quite risky when they will be charged and at what amount they will be charged and that those legal persons are most often forced to settle their claims, and those who are the most risky when it comes to their collection, then we ask the question... (President: Mrs Gajic, please, I like you, but please, this is not a principle debate. I've gone too far for a principle debate, haven't I? (Yes) I didn't make it to the principle debate day, so I thought I'd use my time, since I've got enough. Sure, just one sentence to say and I'll move on to the amendment, Mr. Chairman, don't worry. We've tried amendments, again I say, only the DSS unlike other parliamentary groups, how many or so inaccuracies, perhaps, which we consider to be present in this law, we correct. We still don't know how this law will affect practical application. We expect, when it comes into force, that only then will it be seen what its shortcomings are. I am now going to Article 2 paragraph 1 point 3 of this bill. Here we say that in Article 2(3) – a short-term claim is a claim that takes place on payment within a year of the sale of goods, i.e. the provision of services. We put an end to the point and added: "having regard to the restrictions prescribed by the Law on the deadlines for the settlement of monetary liabilities in commercial transactions". In fact, a month ago, we passed the Law on the settlement deadlines in commercial transactions between legal entities and here we limited the payment, i.e. the deadlines for payment of claims to 45 and 60 days. We are starting from the fact that all of this law will be respected, that it will pay its debts within 45 and 60 days, so that if we take these provisions into account, we are somewhat wondering how much factoring will now be a popular financing measure, because everyone, if we respect the law, will regularly collect their claims and will not pay expensive factoring house services and high interest rates and regresses to collect these claims. That's why we thought, and for the sake of precision, that we should also mention this bill of payment here, in this attitude and this point 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21128	The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21129	I thank the chairman. The previous speaker spoke about the Law on the settlement deadlines for financial liabilities in commercial transactions. The fact is that this law obliges that everything should be paid within 45 and 60 days is currently in force. We at the Ministry of Finance and Business site have the opportunity to see which local self-government, which schools, which direct users do not respect this law, i.e. they are unable to comply with this law because of the blocking of the accounts. One of those local self-government is the city administration of Zajecar. We know very well that there was an election there on June 23rd. It was expected to be a constitutive session for the new congregation, but that didn't happen. Public enterprises workers and certain institutions in Zajecar have not been receiving salaries for several months. The temporary body is currently responsible for this. And instead of the temporary body dealing with the collection of claims, i.e. He pays his bills, the only thing he does is shift directors. In our LDP, this is totally unacceptable – that the SNS should put one director at one session of the temporary body, and in three days it will schedule a session, so that the director will be replaced by someone else and so on and so on. What we're asking is for a constitutional session of local self-government in the city of Zajecaru to be scheduled.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21130	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21131	In Article 2 paragraph 1 point 4) of point (1), we propose that after the word "economic society", we add the word "cooperatives" and that further text remains the same. Namely, point 4) regulates factoring participants and tells who are the supporters of their claims. We simply believe that, apart from companies, banks, entrepreneurs, we should add this member and say that the credentials of their claims can also be cooperative. That's where we thought of farming cooperatives, thank God, there are others who work very successfully and they mostly operate by principle as well as other legal persons. And they have their own claims, very often non-chargeable, they do business in the sphere of agriculture and agricultural production, so we thought we should add them here. You said in your explanation that you would see how the law would behave in practice, which does not mean that it would not expand to some other forms of association, so we believe that it gave us space to eventually, if you did not accept this time, in some new proposals and additions to this law, to include cooperatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21132	The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21133	Article 3 The bill states that the future claim can only be subject to factoring if it is specific and if the factoring contract contains information on who will be the debtor of such a claim. That's attitude one. We propose this amendment to Article 3(1) to "if it is", they add the words "temporary and valuable". Simply, we think that the claim must be timely and valuable, so at least it should stand, that we know when it is and what is the amount of the claim to be made. We've given this amendment to the accuracy of this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21134	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted to the 6th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic together submitted to the 7th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21135	Article 7(2) of point 5 above states that, in addition to the request for authorisation to perform factoring operations, a certified statement that the founding monetary capital of 40 million dinars will be paid at the expense of the commercial bank. We add to place the decimal and say, "It will pay that amount to a business bank within 15 days" and put an end to it. So, since the Ministry is required to respond and issue a solution within 15 days, we consider it to be precise again, because the legal person who submits a request for approval to perform factoring tasks should know that it is still those 15 days, that it does not happen the next day, after the 15th day and that the Ministry breaks this 15-day deadline when it is obliged to issue a solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21136	The 12th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21137	The text of the law reads: "the domestic factoring of which is the subject of the sale of a claim resulting from the sale of goods or the provision of services between domestics on the internal market. "We propose with the amendment that instead of saying "domestic persons" there are the words: "legal persons and entrepreneurs who have headquarters, or who are registered in the Republic of Serbia". In your explanation according to our amendment, you are referring to Article 2(4), where the factoring participants are defined, and here are specifics based in the Republic of Serbia or abroad. We also believe that the credentials and the factoring are: "legal persons based in this country or with a seat outside." Then that's how it should stand here because of the analogy of precision.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21138	The 16th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21139	In Article 16, paragraph 1, after the word "chargeability" we add to our amendment the word "total" remains the same. The regress factor implies that the credentials correspond to the charge factor of the entire claim on the day of maturity of the claim. In attitude 2 after the word "borders" the word "contracted" is added, and the words "if it is not otherwise agreed" are deleted. In fact, Article 16(2) states: "when a factoring with a regression is agreed, factoring has the right to request a settlement from the debtor, the consignor or both at the same time within the limits of the liability of the debtors and the debtors unless otherwise agreed. "It's simple, it shouldn't be agreed on who's responsible for the charge. We usually have a factoring with a regression, and there's clearly who's responsible for the claims, whether it's a debtor or a consignor. This must be stated in the contract, as the credential corresponds to the charge factor of the total claim. But Section 2 says, "in the limits, responsibility unless otherwise agreed. "According to us, there must be contracts, it must be in the contract. That's what article 20 says, which regulates what the factoring contract has. He says it has to be arranged and how it's charged and who's charging.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21140	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21141	Article 17. The bill says – in case it cannot be determined with certainty whether a negotiated factoring with a regression or a factoring without a regression, factoring with a regression will be considered to be agreed. It again calls for Article 20 and says - what the factoring agreement contains, so point 2 says - data on the type of factoring. If it is mandatory that, under Article 20 of the factoring agreement, it contains what kind of factoring is, we do not think it should happen, it is one basic, that no type of factoring is indicated in the contract. That is why we believe, for the sake of greater security, that there is no doubt that they should be agreed or not be agreed, that this member should be deleted, that, later on, when we explain Article 20, we respect point 2 where the contract must also determine the type of factoring.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21142	National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted together to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted to the 20th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21143	Article 20. The proposal for a factoring law says – what the factoring agreement contains in particular. Here is the 8th sub-declaration of what all the factoring agreement contains, but by analysing this bill and in principle the debate rather pointed out that there are still some specifics missing which would be a little more precise to determine what else the factoring agreement contains. So by amendment at 20, after point 1, we suggest adding a new point 2 where it would appear that the factoring agreement should also contain data on the debtor. A new point 10 would set a period of validity of the factoring contract and a new point 11 would determine the jurisdiction of the court in the event of a dispute. In every bonding agreement and in every sale contract, we have, somewhere out there, the last member who says which court is in charge. If we think all this is impeccable, in a legal sense, that it's going to flow, I'm afraid it won't. This is a new area, this is something that won't flow smoothly and that, unfortunately, I don't wish to include court cases. We have suggested that there should be a period of validity, data on the debtor and jurisdiction of the court in the event of a dispute over the security of all legal participants.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21144	National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic together submitted the 24th amendment. The word is Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21145	The bill is so well-conceived, maybe it should, I don't know, it's a new law, so the debtor doesn't ask questions. The debtor is merely given a written notice that the claim to him has been granted and that is the end for him. We believe that the law should stipulate that at least in writing or electronic form, the debtor confirms the receipt of the notice that the claim is granted and that this written certificate is part of the documentation attached to the factoring contract. Whatever your argument, where you say it doesn't have to and shouldn't stand, we think it should be here that the debtor has at least that obligation in this factoring business.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21146	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21147	Thank you, Vice President. It is also the reason for the adoption of such a law to define certain things, because according to the current Law on Liabilities, the debtor must agree, to agree that this disputed or uncontestable claim could be made. Here's the advantage of protecting the kid from the big ones, and that's what I was talking about in principle. One who owes can't be set up to blackmail the one who needs the money. He submitted his claim to the factor and the factor further solves things. There's no reason for this. This would go back to the same situation when we had a lot of reasons in the past to close small and medium-sized enterprises because large systems owed a lot of small businesses, small producers and they didn't have those crafts. The banks I mentioned in the previous debate destroyed our economy with these deadly interest rates. It had to be like this. I think it's a great bill and there's no need to change anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21148	The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21149	This amendment didn't mean that the debtor should agree to an application. Moreover, it is the right of the claimor, or whoever is seeking, but we felt that another paper, confirms that he had received a notice on the concession of the claim for greater legal certainty and the credentials and factoring at home.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21150	The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21151	The Democratic Party of Serbia also submitted an amendment to Article 26, after saying in Article 26, the "factor" deletes the point and adds: "on the day of the claim's maturity". So, after receiving the notice from Article 24 of this Act, the debtor is obliged to pay the claim to the factor, on the day of maturity of the claim, for accuracy. Furthermore, Article 2 adds point 3 which would read: "On the day of the transfer of the payment from item 2, the debt shall cease to be due and according to the debtor and according to the factor". Therefore, paragraph 2 reads: "If the debtor pays the claim to the credentials, he shall not be released from the obligation by factor, if he has received a notice of concession, by being obliged to transfer the factor immediately." That's Section 2, and then we add a logical position 3 that says, "On the day of the transfer of payments from Item 2, the debtor's obligation to both the step-by-step and the factor" ceases. So anyway, the debtor settled his obligation to the consignor, so I thought he should stand and his confirmation that he had received the notice. The moment he receives the notice, and it can happen that simply the financial director is wrong and by mistake pays the claim to the credential rather than the factor, his obligation to the factor does not stop. But when the consignor transfers the claim factor that he got back, then he should stop obligations to both factors and to each other, to be precise, because he still settled his debts.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21152	Thank you. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic together submitted the 28th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted to the 29th amendment. The word has a folk MP, Gorica Gajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21153	Again, for the sake of precision, the position of the first member in the bill reads: "The debtor is responsible for the founding and the value of the claim under the factoring contract". We suggest that the word "value" be replaced by "expension", so that it says, "The consignor is responsible for the founding and the amount of claim." You did not accept this amendment, with the reason that the term "expension" refers only to the nominal amount of the claim provided for in the contract on the purchase of goods or services. This is, of course, the subject matter of this contract, precisely the claim between two legal entities, and the term "expension" is also used in Article 20(4) and (5), which regulates what the factoring contract contains and is specifically provided for in points 5) and 6) where other fees, interest, commission and others are said to determine the basis and amount. For these reasons, we suggested that there be an "elevation" here, not a "value."
ParlaMint-RS_2013-07-15-0.u21154	Thank you. National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic submitted together to the 35th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the proposal in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, and since it has already decided on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013, in accordance with Article 87(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby determine Tuesday, July 16th, 2013, starting at 10.00pm, as the Day of Vote on the remainder of the session's session of the Eighth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. I thank you for your work.
