ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23336	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. (Intonation of the Anthem ‘God of Justice’). Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 126 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly shall exist when the minutes are adopted and the agenda is established, if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 127 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since today is Tuesday, based on article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall have the right to request explanations or notifications, and shall I ask if any of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23337	Dear People's MPs, Mr. President of the Assembly, we had the opportunity yesterday to hear from the mouth of the president of the state of Tomislav Nikolic that Serbs should go to the local elections in Kosovo to get the legality and legitimacy of international institutions. It is certainly a strange statement, as the Serb vote violates and destroys the legality and legitimacy of the Serbian state, its constitution, its internal arrangement, and also violates Resolution 1244, as a guarantee of Serbia's international position. I'm just about to ask a question about during preparations for these elections and the state of law, about these preparations. In recent days, we have been witnessing discussions between Belgrade and Pristina regarding the new electoral list, which the Central Election Commission is making with the names of people who allegedly signed up for a new polling list, i.e. apply for elections in Kosovo and Metohija, and it is about internally displaced persons, i.e. refugees who allegedly have the right to participate in these elections. The problem is that the Central Election Commission of Kosovo does not accept, therefore, all names reportedly registered at around 40,000, but only about six seven thousand. Namely, the basic question is, what is the relevant voter list in this matter? Is there an imaginary and emerging Kosovo list, or is it about Serbia's voter list? Serbia has voters' lists, on which the names of internally displaced persons are. They were therefore obliged to apply to other voter lists, to those made by the Central Election Commission. It is known that they were filling out some other form on which the Republic of Kosovo stood neatly and on which the Kosovo sign of a false state stood neatly. So the basic question is -- what is the legal basis for the application of Serbs living in Serbia, originally settled in Kosovo and Metohija, on these polling lists? So the question is very simple, it must be explained to the public once, because if it is a certificate of legality, then we wonder whether this legality of Kosovo should come out of Serbia, or whether it should remain in Serbia. Through this issue of the voter's list and the legal basis of all these actions, citizens will finally be informed about what it is, and if they are fully aware of what this is about, but let's also see on this case what the legality of these acts, which the Serbian authorities are pulling today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23338	National MP Zechariah Trnavcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23339	Thank you. Mr. President, I would like to warn you that again during your presidency, for the fourth time, you have denied the MPs and me the opportunity to ask questions to the government and ministers on the basis of article 205 of last Thursday. I ask these questions not for my own sake, but for citizens who want an answer, an attitude, the government's opinion on it. I suggest you make up for this in October of the month so we can have a chance to ask questions. Second question. I suggest that this assembly put on the agenda during this session – why did the Serbian government capitulate in front of the hooligans on Saturday, September 28th, ban the maintenance of the "Prade of Pride"? It's caused such a ruse, a retreat from violence, in front of the street, that it's amazing. It has also caused great damage to both the government and its reputation, as well as to Serbia and the citizens themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23340	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23341	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, authorised representatives of the SPO and DHSS parliamentary club recently attended a meeting at the finance ministry to amend the Restitution Act. On our proposal, after constructive talks and the will of the assistant minister, and after the arguments we have made, I think the conditions have been met that we are working more intensively on the draft amendments to the law. We have asked this question several times during the exercise of the government of the current government, but it is also our political programme that we have advocated since the very establishment. As early as 1992, the SPO proposed that Serbia's parliament adopt a law on the return of property to monasteries and churches in Kosovo and Metohija. It was the previous law, the proposal of the General Law on Restitution. At that time, the Serbian Parliament passed the bill but then the president of Serbia, using the right to a suspension veto, returned to parliament for the re-admission of the law, but he never came to the agenda again. What am I talking about? Because in the previous period during the exercise of power after 5 October 2000, democratic forces who did not want to revise those affected values of correcting historical injustices also advocated the adoption of the Law on Restitution. Vladan Batic, on several occasions from 2009 to 2011, submitted his proposal for legislation, and the SPO insisted on natural restitution, substitution. However, the past government would not have passed the Restitution Act, probably if it hadn't been for the EU to become a candidate for EU membership. We are then and remember this well all political actors made it impossible to pass rehabilitation laws whose parts were contained in the Law on Restitution for the reason that the bill could not have been rehabilitated members of the JVO. Why am I asking all this as a question to the Ministry of Finance? Because the most just way to correct historical injustices and hijacked property is natural form and substitution. I think that there have been conditions that we are working even more intensively to adopt such a proposal to amend and supplement the law, so I would like to ask the Ministry of Finance, the Registrar to let us know whether it is ready to continue some kind of dialogue and accept the arguments by the MP's SPO bench, the DHSS to put this bill on the agenda. I also ask the Minister of Justice, is there a possibility, since this is a question in the area of law, that he too is engaged in making a new amendment and supplementing the Law on Restitution, because it is more than needed for Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23342	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23343	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, fellow MPs, I ask the question of the Minister of Agriculture, Trade, Forestry and Water Management, Professor Dragan Glamočić, and my question concerns the subsidy, in fact, encourages agriculture. I ask the Minister – why are some farmers paid incentives to support rural development through investments in fruit production and placement, grapes, vegetables, mushrooms and flowers for 2012, and some are not? It is that the ministry has passed a regulation that if farmers buy something from the irrigation mechanism, they get a refund of funds. What were the criteria for some farmers to receive funds? It is well known that some have received, and some in some contacts with the Agrarian Payments Department in Šapco have persistently received answers, although it has been a year since they were paid, that there is no more funds to recover funds they have invested in agricultural production. I ask the Minister, what were the criteria? Why is it selectively determined that some can get those funds back and some can't? Why, if any funds were not all received, why did these incentives not reach all farmers and why did this selectively determine who would receive the funds and who would not? Also, I ask the minister, there were conversations when we were doing budget rebalances that the agriculture budget was reduced, but that it would not, that farmers would not suffer, and in particular that they would not suffer subsidies all that they invest in their agricultural production. I ask Minister Glamočić to tell me how many farmers have received a refund so far, which are the funds, and whether and when the lags will be paid under that regulation, which I have recently cited, are related to the purchase of equipment, machinery and protection against disease, irrigation, etc.? I would just like to point out that farmers have submitted all the extensive documentation by July 31st, 2012.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23344	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23345	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to these specific issues that my colleagues and colleagues have mostly spoken about, I will try to ask two general questions to the Prime Minister, and in relation to, I would say, two really crucial problems that are burdening the whole country and our citizens at this moment, I think it is important that we talk about this at the beginning of our regular autumn session. First, of course, the question of money, economic and social situations, is the second issue of security in our country, and I think that the past few weeks, especially in recent days, have shown that the situation in both areas is actually catastrophic. So, the first question for the Prime Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is will it soon propose whether there will be a budget rebalance for 2013 at all, and how is it possible that the government, and then the ruling majority who voted in this Parliament in early July for the Bill's bill, i.e. the budget rebalancing, the first rebalancing for 2013, managed to make such a wrong assessment, that the deficit by the end of the year, almost certainly, would be about 300m euros higher than you and your government, just two and a half months ago, assessed by the rebalance, by the first budget rebalancing for 2013? Why do I claim that the deficit will be at least 300m euros higher than is foreseen by the rebalance? For example, in August alone, the deficit was an amazing 260m euros. I believe that one of the government's excuses will be that August is a specific month on the one hand, and on the other hand, the unemployed days, or weekends, have fallen so that some revenues are not shown in August, but will be shown in September, but still remains the fact that revenues are much lower, that expenditure is slightly higher and that Serbia has no chance of reducing the deficit to around 178 billion dinars by the end of the year, as foreseen by budget rebalance. Another group of issues is this, if in this country is actually making key economic decisions and does the government plan to use the savings and reforms it is announcing with this parliament and the public, or will some governments before it, the IMF and the International Community use it as a scarecrow in the business? So, for days in public, we listen, obviously organised attempts to shift the issue of some reforms, say, pension fund reform, reform the entire budget, partially and tax reform and economic reform, to the IMF, so that the current government, and the Prime Minister as an external leftist and socialist in it, in this regard, fully frees up any responsibility. Are we going to talk in this House about how long the retirement age should be, or are we going to talk about it from the front pages of the paper? Will, more or less, the technical mission of the IMF here propose reform measures or will we first discuss those who represent all those people who will be affected? The reform of labour legislation and pension fund reform affects absolutely everyone in this country, millions and 700,000 employees, millions and 700,000 pensioners and almost a million unemployed in this country. So it's not the issue of interpartisan negotiations in the ruling coalition, it's a question for every citizen of this country. Will it be rounded at the end of the pension line at 100 years of age without any other reforms that are necessary at the same time? So that's another group of questions, why is the deficit so large, is there going to be a rebalance and how will the announced measures, or announced reforms, that we haven't heard from so far, fit? At the very end, the last question for the Prime Minister, who is also the interior minister, is how is it possible and what is he doing to correct this, that a complete explosion of violence has occurred in our society in recent weeks? The shameful cancellation of the Pride, past all constitutional guarantees of human rights and freedoms, is only the last event. For weeks before that, an explosion of violence on our streets exists, in our schools, among the youngest children in our schools. The Liberal Democratic Party has requested a session of the Committee of Resorbs, nothing has happened, the prime minister of the government's additional Hague public. My last question is when will it stop and what does it do?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23346	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23347	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question concerns the first Deputy Prime Minister, Prime Minister and Finance Minister, and the fact that the Republic of Serbia, primarily with the decisions of the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister, has been in debt for the last days and that the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is now 21.5 billion euros. The public debt, when this government took over the country's management, was 15.5 billion euros, which, therefore, is five billion more debt, even counting that part that was as the old debt was paid back. So five billion euros in new debt is due to the Republic of Serbia, that is, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia has a new obligation that they will have to repay but, of course, their children. It might not be dramatic if investment in infrastructure in the past six months, i.e. total government investments were not only 294m euros, 15% of planned. Well, where's that five billion-euro difference? Where did all these billions go? So, in investments, apparently, they're not. They went to the country's rally, to new party employment; 10,000 newly employed party personnel. I ask the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister, of course, and the Minister of Finance, what will do to reduce the debt above all, that is to say, to stop this borrowing and the introduction of the country, we could say freely, in certain debt slavery? They don't go to any country or president, or the first Deputy Prime Minister without returning with new debts. Even a phone call is enough for 100m euros of a new debt from the Emirates, a billion euros for planes or whatever it is from Russia, to take new debts from China. Now we're good with the IMF, which we drove away a year and a half ago. We'll be in charge of them now, too. Give what you give just to survive this incompetent government. So I ask the government when it will come to citizens with a clear view of how much debt has gone, where have the money gone, and when will this borrowing and the introduction of the country and our future generations become a serious problem? Not to mention examples of countries in the environment that are now loosing and practically losing their sovereignty because they don't have the means to repay debts. So, a very serious question for the government. We ask the answer to specific questions, not stories about everything and everything when we ask very specific questions. On the other hand, we'd like to get information from the government what about some contracts that are supposed to be signed that we can't see? As for the deal with the Emirates, it concerns the sale of the country in Vojvodina and other parts of Serbia under a contract that we cannot see, although it was a promise in the National Assembly that it would be all very transparent. There is no contract for the job either, and there is no contract for many other jobs that are announced and are almost certain. Neither is the National Assembly of Serbia, nor are the citizens familiar with both transparency and not a word. So the second question - will we also get when we look at the contract with the Emirates, that we know what is agreed with Etihada, with a private company, what is the obligation of the state, what is selling, what is the lease, under what conditions, what will the benefits and whether the country will benefit from it at all, or actually go to a good place at a very low price, and besides that the country could buy under the same conditions and domestic farmers? So we want an answer to this other question. We want the public and the Assembly to deliver documents that are signed, which we don't even know what they look like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23348	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23349	Dear President of the Assembly, honourable vice presidents, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, today is October 1st, which is marked as the International Day of the Old. This day is also marked in Serbia. I would like to congratulate all the citizens and citizens of the third lifetime on this day. Of course, I also have a question addressed to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy and the Ministry of Health, which is: when will these two ministries have an integrated policy in relation to the population of the elderly and, above all, to the opening of the geriatric departments and the palitarian care departments and the treatment of the elderly? The basis for asking my question is data from the Republic Statistics Institute in 2011, which say Serbia has a total population of 7,186,862 people, that of the total number of people aged 65, there are 1,250,316 people, which is 17.40% of Serbia's population. Of course, Serbia as a country of the average age of 42, we belong to five countries in Europe that fall within the category of deep demographic age, together with Italy, Bulgaria, Sweden and Germany. The basis for asking my question, except for statistical indicators, is also a member of 60. The 2011 Social Protection Act, which speaks of the establishment of social and health institutions. Apart from this issue concerning the elderly population, I also have a question relating to the City of Belgrade, which is when the citizens and citizens of Serbia will receive a clear and public answer to the question of how much is the real responsibility of the City of Belgrade if it is known that on 31 December 2010, this debt was 470m euros and if six months later it was 585m euros? All citizens and citizens of Serbia, and as their representatives, have the right to know what real debts are and how many more generations in this country should work to pay off these debts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23350	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Maja Gojkovic, Borislav Pelevic, Bojan Kostreš, Natasa Vukkovic, Vesna Marjanović and Balša Bozovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of Mr Velimir Ilic, Minister of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Aleksandra Damjanovic, assistant minister of construction and urbanism. We're moving on to the adoption of the minutes from the previous sessions. You received materials for all sessions held during the previous period without adopting them. Let me just determine the quorum for the decision. Please insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that there are conditions for deciding after the session is attended by 128 MPs. Comments on the minutes shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs at the latest 24.00 hours before the start of the meeting of the National Assembly at which the minutes are adopted. Objections to the minutes are decided by the National Assembly without a search. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're going to make a decision on the records. I am voting on the minutes of the fourth session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 22, 24, 27, 28 and 29 May 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, abstentioned – one, has voted - 41, of the total of 168 MPs present. I agree that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the fourth session of the First Regular National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 22, 24, 27, 28 and 29 May 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the fifth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20 and 25 June 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, no one, with abstentions, voted - 44, out of 170 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20 and 25 June 2013. I put to the vote the minutes of the June 21st, 2013 National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – no one, with abstention – has voted - 45, out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 21 June 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 25, 26, 27, 28 June and 1 July 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – no one, with abstention – has voted - 45, out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 25, 26, 27, 28 June and 1 July 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held 1, 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 15 and 16 July 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – no one, with abstentions – has voted - 41, out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 8th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held 1, 2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 15 and 16 July 2013. I put to the vote the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 11 July 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – no one, with abstention – has voted - 44, out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 11 July 2013. I put to the vote The minutes of the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 18 July 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123 against – no one, with abstentions – has voted - 45, out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Fifth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 18 July 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 16, 17, 18, 22, 24 and 25 July 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 125, against – no one, with abstention – has voted - 43, of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 16, 17, 18, 22, 24 and 25 July 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the 10th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26, 28 and 29 August 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – no one, with abstention – has voted - 44, out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26, 28 and 29 August 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 29 August 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123 against – no one, with abstentions – has voted - 46, out of the 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 29 August 2013. I put to the vote the Journal of the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held in 2013 on 30 and 31 August and 2 September 2013. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against – no one, with abstention – has voted - 46, of the total attendance of 172 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Journal of the Sixth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 30 and 31 August and 2 September 2013. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Dragan Andrić and Karolj Cizik proposed to put on the agenda the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability for Human Rights, which they submitted to the National Assembly on 24 May 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, v – one, abstention - one, 145 did not vote, out of the 178 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 11 June 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – no one, against – one, with abstention – has voted 177, out of the 178 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads be put on the agenda, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 June 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 177, out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 July 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 57 out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Administrative Court, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 18 July 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, no one, with abstentions, voted 59 out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Commerce, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 July 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 122, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 60, out of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Higher Violent Court, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 July 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 124, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 57, out of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed putting the draft decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 July 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 59 out of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect the President of the Court of Appeal in Nis, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 July 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – no one, with abstentions, voted 61 out of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed putting the draft decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 July 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123 against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 58 out of 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The High Judicial Council proposed putting on the agenda the draft decision on the election of judges who were first elected as judges, which submitted to the National Assembly on 18 July 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 120, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 60, out of the 181 MP present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft safety and interoperability law on the agenda of the railway, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 June 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention - voted 181, out of the total attendance of 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Legalisation of Objects, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 1 August 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 59, out of a total of 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, National MP Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 August 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, abstentioned - one, voted 56, out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision amending the Decision on the election of members and alternate members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 30 August 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 123, no one, with abstentions, voted 58 out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. A group of 43 MPs of the Democratic Party Group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the main city law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 September 2013 and with a correction of the text of the draft law and a correction of the text of the reasoning of 27 September 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, v – two, abstention - one, did not vote 157 out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 43 MPs of the DS Group proposed that the draft law on local elections tabled by the National Assembly be put on the agenda on 20 September 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 15, against – two abstentions – no, 165 of the 182 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 43 MPs of the DS MPs suggested that the draft law on local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 20 September 2013, should be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 22, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 159 of the people's MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 September 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – one, did not vote 181 of the 184 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group has proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision amending a decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 September 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – one abstention – there is no vote, 52 of the total attendance of 184 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The president of the National Assembly, MP Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments Proposal for a decision to determine the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 September 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 136, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 46 of the total attendance of 183 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending the Law on Public Property, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 181 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the proposal for a bill to confirm Annex No.2 of the Economic and Technical Co-operation Agreement in the area of infrastructure between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of China, which submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 184 of the 184 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft law amending and supplementing the Higher Education Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 30 September 2013, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 179 of the total of 185 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Karic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a declaration for Serbia without GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 February 2013. Does MP Ivan Karic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23351	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we've been talking about this for the second time in this high house. As you know, the public in Serbia and the EU are generally against GMOs in food and in products of such seeds. That is why green Serbia has been demanding for at least three years through various campaigns to get this into the agenda of one assembly, at least one assembly, and for three years all governments and all congregations have refused to do so. You used to talk about how it was rejected by some previous congregation. Everyone's quiet today, and this assembly refuses to put this item on the agenda. As you know, European laws on GMOs are allowed to ban GM crops based on health and environmental impacts. There's research like that today. One of the most famous research is a study of French researchers with scientific concentration. There is no rule in the World Trade Organisation concerning biotechnology and GMOs. If we as a state, I hope that we are still a sovereign state, asked the World Trade Organisation on behalf of the Serbian state, they will tell you that such rules do not exist. Therefore, there is no reason why we would not introduce this declaration into the agenda, and then discuss it, I have tried to convince you that Serbia does not need genetically modified organisms when it comes to agriculture, when it comes to the economy, when it comes to food production, when it comes to food trafficking, and you have tried to convince me that it may be necessary, because most people believe that Serbia needs it. Despite efforts by the European Commission, Hungary has explicitly banned GMO cultivation, there is no such ban in Russia, but there is also no cultivation of such organisms. Bulgaria banned GMO cultivation in 2010. Therefore, the EU and EU countries can do so, obviously, and this is not a condition for EU accession. There is a country called Romania that has an official ban on GM food, but its authorities tolerate GMO products. I think the country reminds me of Serbia's country. Unfortunately, we are not in the EU and they are and therefore there is no obvious reason why the declaration should not be placed on the agenda, and then we will talk about the impact of the adverse effects on health and the environment. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 62, against – two abstentions – no, 126 of the total presence of 190 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which were submitted to the National Assembly by the MPs of Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic and Srdjan Mikovic, 2 April 2013. Does MP Miodrag Stojkovic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23352	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the desire to put this law on higher education into an emergency procedure is actually a reason because today is October 1st and I use the opportunity where our students, especially freshmen, are congratulated on enrollment in the new school year, and I therefore wish them a better quality education in order to later be ready to deal with life. What is my wish, as well as the wish of the DS, is to point to the need for urgency of this law. The new proposal has several good things, but there are also a few open questions. The good thing is, of course, that the average rating will be 8.5, i.e. 48 will be a rating point per year of funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The second good thing is that the number of test deadlines remains six, not five, as the previous minister announced. One correction to be considered is whether students are entitled to a scholarship if they have an average of eight and a half, and not as currently, or a proposal to be 9.0? On the one hand, we raise that scale, and on the other hand we give nothing in return to students to improve the quality of study. I'll give you an example. The scholarship to these students, who are good, is 6,100 dinars, and the cost of staying in November homes, especially here in Belgrade, and over 200 euros, then you can see how much it is necessary and the urgency to change this, especially in favour of students. On the other hand, I'd like to use the next minute and a half on what's bothering our country, and that's what we don't often take into account, which is demographics. Remember that 70,000 students are enrolled in high school and that there are 62,000 accredited places to study. High school isn't mandatory. So, a lot of people aren't going to go to college when they get into college in a few years. Consider that 30,000 young people leave this country annually, that there are 32,000 experts living and working abroad, and that we still do not have the law that would make it easier for them to return to Serbia. The law that defines this is the Law on Higher Education, especially the part relating to the nostrification, or recognition of foreign diplomas, whether for further education or for the return to our country to be employed. I will read to you only one name and a message that I received through the Republic website, that is through our service, which is from Mr. Ivan Ilic, who says, quote, "I have finished my basic studies in English and literature in England, and at every moment in Serbia I remain unqualified to teach." It is a very bad message for these young people to return, that is, to create their own future and family in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23353	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 53, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 133, out of the 187 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed that the agenda be complemented by a draft law supplementing the Criminal Code, which was submitted to the National Assembly by National MP Borislav Stefanovic on 24 June 2013. Does the MP, Professor Janko Veselinovic, want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23354	The idea of this proposal for a law supplementing the Criminal Code was to protect people who defend their lives in self-defense, to protect themselves from treating themselves, or to protect them from the treatment of those persons of severe prosecution and treatment as ordinary killers. The reason for this proposal to amend the Penal Code was murder in self-defense that took place in May of this year, when it was in the house of the S.B. Incursed burglar, who was repeatedly convicted of various crimes, and was a drug addict at night while S.B. He slept, tried to rob him. When is S.B. Tried to defend himself attacked him, and in that reckoning, in the house of S.B., the burglar was killed. After that, the person who slept peacefully in his house, attacked in this way, ended up in prison among the most severe violations of the law, murderers, and remained in custody for several days until citizens, NGOs raised their voice against it. 25,000 signatures have been collected to release this man and defend himself at least from freedom. We have witnessed legal uncertainty in the last year in Serbia. Black chronicles are full. Robbery happens every day. The aim of this law is to protect innocent citizens, who are victims of violence, which the state, unfortunately, allows, I could say, by not making them supplement the Criminal Law to protect people who, in self-defense, are trying to protect their naked lives and their property. For this reason, we call on the other parliamentary groups to support this proposal to supplement the Criminal Code, because it does not aim to create conditions for new crimes, but to decriminalise this act, or to put it into the framework that belongs to it, which is self-defense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23355	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 59, no one, with abstentions, voted 129 out of the 188 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Arms and Ammunition, which was submitted to the National Assembly by groups of six MPs of the DS Group on 10 April 2013. Does MP Srdjan Milivojevic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23356	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Stefanovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on 9 April Serbia was shaken by a terrible crime in Velika Ivanca. 14 of our fellow citizens were injured by weapons for which his owner was legally granted a license and an armed list. How did the Government of the Republic of Serbia react after this terrible crime? At 15.55 hours, the insight was completed, at 15.57 p.m., Prime Minister and Interior Minister Mr. Dacic announced that this crime shows that more attention should be paid to the issue of issuing a gun license. A cabinet session was held and a day of mourning was announced for April 10th. How did the opposition democratic party react? At 10.00 hours, on 9 April, we adopted a bill on amendments to the Law on Arms and Ammunitions and handed it over on 10 April on the day of mourning in the Republic of Serbia. The bill has only two members, and it provides for all gun owners and for all people who want to take up arms to carry out a psychiatric examination and for a specialist doctor to confirm that these people are medically capable of possessing and using weapons. I expect that this ruling majority, which advocates fighting crime and corruption, will support this law, especially at a time when street crime is escalating street violence, especially in Novi Sad. The law was due to be passed another June of the month, and then we would not have had public gatherings in Belgrade recently, because the state of Serbia is being threatened by armed criminal groups, it would not have happened that the state of Serbia, 6,500 police officers, was defeated by criminals. I expect the high awareness of the ruling majority MPs, that crime should not be fought by amnesty of criminals, but by the adoption of system laws governing the security of our society. I expect to put this on the agenda right now, so we don't witness any new tragedies. And I immediately inform you that the DS will also propose a law that will provide for the possibility for the state of Serbia to buy all the weapons from its citizens, for which these citizens have legal permission, but they no longer need them. This will also increase the security of our citizens. To bring in the regulation... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... by which citizens will again be able to hand over all the weapons they own and hold in their apartments, because it will also be an indication that we want to root out crime. Respecting the thought that the law is a source of light and guidance from the dark, I invite you to turn on the light together and vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23357	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 46, against – one, abstention – there is no, 142 of the 189 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Borislav Stefanovic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda - the proposal for a law on the capital, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 43 MPs of the DS parliamentary group on 20 September 2013, with a correction of the text of the draft law and the text of the reasoning of 27 September 2013. Does MP Borislav Stefanovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23358	The Democratic Party has submitted a proposal to amend and supplement the Capital Act. It is one of several proposals that we have submitted to the National Assembly with the hope that we will overcome the political differences and politics of the ruling regime in Serbia and that we will be able to bring something that is obvious for the benefit of the citizens of Serbia, in this case the citizens of Belgrade. We hope that anyone who has a hint of well-meaning by the ruling coalition understands that our proposal to amend and supplement the Capital Act refers to our obvious political intention to reflect the same system as soon as possible on other municipalities and cities in Serbia. With this proposal, we ask that citizens, in this particular case of Belgrade, choose directly, by name and last name, through the majority elections, their mayor. In this way, citizens would know that what already exists, and what is personalised in all the elections so far, should be known in the future and that citizens know exactly, by name and last name, who will be the head of their town or municipality, in this case the capital of Serbia, the City of Belgrade. There's been a lot of trouble. One of the regime's grudges was – why are you doing it in the election year? We believe it is important that this proposal be adopted as soon as possible. We ask for the support of all parliamentary groups to adopt the agenda and be supported. We ask that politics be avoided. We ask that everyone in this country understand that when elections depend, like everything else, on one man. So, we can't know what an election year is, only Alexander Vukic knows, and since he won't make it clear, we're asking, as a national representative, to make a statement about it, gentlemen of the government -- do you want one of your 10, 20, 150 candidates for mayor of Belgrade to be elected directly or not? Since we have no illusions that you will not support this proposal, we have no illusions that you will hide behind your posters – welcome President, as in Vrsac, we have no illusions that you will support your single and only bearer in all elections from the local community to the president, but we ask that you clearly show it here in front of the citizens of Serbia. We ask you to say - why is it unacceptable for citizens of all cities in Serbia, all municipalities and the City of Belgrade to choose their mayor? In this way, it will be clear who is the bearer of the greatest responsibility. The city and municipal assemblies will be able to replace the mayor if they have a two-thirds majority and if approved by the citizens' initiative, i.e. a referendum in a certain city. Otherwise, the councilors, according to our proposal, would be elected for the City of Belgrade in a majority, mixed way, where it would be known exactly who is the council member in which the electoral unit and whoever gets the most citizens' trust would be at the top of the election list. This system is, above all, just, the system confirms legitimacy... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end, the legality and this system brings new quality to the citizens of Serbia and to the citizens of Belgrade. We therefore ask you to support this proposal and, in some ways, to contribute to the quality and democracy of Serbia once.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23359	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 28, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 153 of the total attendance of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gorica Mojovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 31 MPs of the DS parliamentary group on 23 April 2013. Does MP Gorica Mojovic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23360	Ladies and gentlemen, this is another attempt, and I would say a request to the ruling coalition, and I would say a cry for the help of a culture that, thanks to the adoption of the Public Procurement Act, is in big trouble. I'm going to say just a few examples that I'm going to point out that the Public Procurement Act, when it comes to culture, has led to the blockade of this activity, has led to confusion in interpreting the Public Procurement Act, and I would say and I would like to challenge certain fixation of the application of this law, because otherwise it can't. Ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, do you know that since the adoption of the Law on Public Procurement, i.e. the entry into force of April, no library in Serbia has obtained new books for its funds? What the ministry has done these days in a public way, these are competitions that are called under the Law on Culture, not by the Law on Public Procurement. I hope the minister doesn't answer for that. Did you know that the National Theatre has invited over a hundred artists who are engaged in authorial contracts and are not constantly employed, to bring confirmations that they are not being prosecuted, that they have paid taxes and a number of other documents, so that they can renew their contracts for plays that are already on the repertoire? I ask you - will you call the former director of the Belgrade Philharmonic and today's culture minister, because five top conductors are invited to conduct in the season at the high heels of the Belgrade Philharmonic and did not challenge them in the tender? I ask you – will you blame the Film Centre, the Board of Directors and Directors for launching competitions for the selection of films for production and post-production under the Law on Cinematography and not by the Public Procurement Act? All of what I'm talking about, these examples are mostly, i.e. the basic work of culture. The proposal for this Act on Amendments and Supplements does not provide for the release of those procurements relating to printing, re-competition procurement, lightbulb procurement, reflectors, etc. It's about weight work. A few words about confusion. Do you know that the Public Procurement Administration of the Republic of Serbia has sent a JDP opinion not to apply the Public Procurement Act to theatre performances, as the play is considered a product for further sale, that this opinion does not respect the National Theatre, because it allegedly refers only to city institutions? Do you see that, with this law, I received a statement from our Department for European Integration, that the law is in accordance with European Directive 2004/18, and that I received from the prime minister a letter saying that it does not comply with the same directive? Gentlemen of the ruling majority, let's stop this confusion, this blockade in the work of culture institutions. Do not point us to guesses, small purchases, or small fines. Let us adopt amendments to the Law on Public Procurement and allow normal functioning of the work of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23361	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 34, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 151 of the 186 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a bill amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 January 2013. Does MP Srdjan Mikovic want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23362	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, you see that MPs of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group have proposed a whole series of draft laws over the past period. We are in a situation now to see that, throughout this period of the last year, more than a dozen laws are in the process and there is no good will to at least one part to consider these bill proposals, to put before you our argument and to try to explain why the proposals we have put forward can contribute to a better life of citizens, better performance of certain social functions, even improving the situation in Serbia. I participated, with my colleagues from the Democratic Party parliamentary group, in proposing a number of laws, and I personally proposed a number of laws. One of these is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which I proposed in one form during the calendar year 2012, to propose, following the entry into force of the Treaty on Non-mandatory Membership in the Modern Chamber System in Serbia, immediately after the New Year, practically on the second day of Christmas, on 8 January 2013, the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce, precisely in view of what should enable the partner relationship of the chamber system with the state authorities, which is, above all, the full representativeness of all interests, the equality of all economic entities within the Chamber and the character of the public-law institution through the exercise of public authority. For those who do not know that, the public-legal character of the chambers of commerce is reflected in the exercise of public authority entrusted to it by law, such as the issue of certificates, assurances and other documents on credit, the business-technical competence of the legal person, registration in the register of carriers, that the goods are not produced in the country, the fulfilment and conditions for public transport, the reference papers on the origin of the TIR carnets, the assurances accompanying the goods on import and export, the certificates of entry into the list of interested contractors of construction works for participation in the public procurement procedure, etc. If Germany, Italy, Austria, France and Spain accept a mandatory membership system, if even Republika Srpska has returned the mandatory membership system to the chamber system, I suggest you consider this draft law on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23363	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for –35, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 149 of the 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dejan Nikolic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a draft law on local self-government, which was submitted to the National Assembly by 43 MPs of the Democratic Party group on 20 September 2013. Does MP Dejan Nikolic want a word? (Yes)
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23364	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's a good time to step out of this cliché of relations by which no opposition reform proposal can come on the agenda. I don't know where we can talk about bill proposals if we don't talk about it in parliament. In the past 14 months, Serbia has been such that this attitude of the ruling majority towards the opposition in the assembly must be changed. The Democratic Party has submitted a set of electoral laws, including the Law on Local Self-Government, to create a legal framework for amending the electoral system. My colleague talked about it, and in public, we talked about it a lot these days. The Democratic Party proposes that citizens in all Serbian cities, in all 23 cities, choose their mayors directly. So when more than 30% of the people in Leskovac support the people of one party, they know who will lead Leskovac and who will be the mayor of Leskovac, not those who have not won nearly so many votes. Or when every third citizen of Užica gives support to one list, then they know who will lead the Užice and who will be the Mayor of Užica, not the leaders of those who have not won half that many votes. Unfortunately, there is a constitutional restriction that we also choose municipal presidents in a direct way, but there is no constitutional restriction that we choose committees in a different way, that citizens know which candidate they are voting for, and that if the candidate wins enough votes, they know who will represent them in local parliaments, in municipal and urban parliaments. This will reduce the possibility for political parties to introduce people who have not received confidence in the elections into local parliaments. It is true that committees who gain trust get one new responsibility, but get much greater legitimacy, which will further strengthen local congregations, municipal and urban ones. To be perfectly honest, these laws have nothing to do with political developments in Belgrade. These laws have much more to do with political developments in the last 14 months in all of Serbia. The electoral will of citizens is something that must be respected, not something to play with. That is why we propose these laws, and that is why we want to talk about it in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23365	I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 29, against – no one with abstentions – has voted 155 of the 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Jovanovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the establishment of maximum earnings in the public sector, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MP Srdjan Mikovic on 23 November 2012. Does MP Ivan Jovanovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23366	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, MPs, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing maximum earnings in the public sector, proposed by counterpart Mikovic, is an amendment to that proposal adopted in September of last year in the National Assembly. I think he is indeed the right subject at this point to consider and the right subject to be declared by the parliament of Serbia. Last year's law adopted and entered into force on 25 September 2012 provides for a limit of profits in the public sector, in public enterprises and in this case one member of the law deals with those companies, i.e. public sector earners who have competition and operate on a market principle, and this law does not apply to them. Also, the proposed, i.e. the law in force provides that the Government determines the criteria which determine whether the payer is someone who has competition and who operates on a market principle. A colleague, Srdjan Mikovic, has proposed this law, i.e. by amending the law, that these criteria be established in the law itself, that they be not subject to the government's discretionary proposals and subject to the regulation, but to be a member of 1a law, eight criteria which clearly and unequivocally determine which public sector earners operate on market principles, have competition and should not be subject to this law. In recent days, government representatives and authorities have been saying a lot about the difficult situation in Serbia, saying there is a lot to be changed in the functioning of the public sector, but nothing other than demagogue flossules, promises, predictions, nothing concrete, there are no concrete proposals. The Democratic Party is accusing everyone. We are accused of not making suggestions that we do not have any new act as a proposal that can improve the situation in Serbia. This proposal is one of those, improving our legislation, correcting the situation on transparency, and this proposal shows as well as the other proposals that colleagues today have explained that we want to offer solutions to Serbia. Unfortunately, the ruling majority today did not have the hearing of these proposals being put on the agenda, and I have no illusion that this proposal will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23367	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 20, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote – 159 out of the 179 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ljuban Panic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a draft law on local elections submitted to the National Assembly of the Group of 43 MPs by the Democratic Party on 20 September 2013. Does the MP want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23368	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens and citizens of Serbia, I am sorry that such important laws as should be put back into the hands of citizens to decide on their local self-governments are not even enough patience for these proposals to be heard in this assembly hall, let alone putting them on the agenda. Professor Micunovic, perhaps two months ago, spoke of some Western democracies passing laws on the protection of parliament and citizens from the government. The proposal is about local elections laws, local self-government, and we could also call the main city bill a set of DS laws aimed at protecting citizens from the government of the Republic of Serbia. What's this about? About the sea of unfulfilled pre-election promises, one is post-electionally implemented with almost brilliant efficiency. This is called the transfer of local self-government, i.e. the withdrawal of the Constitution of guaranteed citizens' right to local self-government. The constitution guarantees the right of citizens to local self-government. The constitution predicts that local self-government is elected in the elections and the only successful project of the government of the Republic of Serbia since its formation is that in Uzica, Leskovac, Novi Sad, Belgrade and in many other cities in Serbia, the electoral will of citizens shown in the elections last year is annulled. In order to protect citizens from the government, we suggest that the committees choose in combination with a proportionate and majority system, that mandates be allocated proportionately, and that citizens know which one of their neighbours is voting for, who will present them and decide about kindergartens, roads, etc. That these municipal problems are decided by neighbours, not "Kurir" and "Informer". We propose that the mayor's recall, which is popular, of course, with political arrests, the government's favorite activity will also be returned to the hands of citizens. That the two-thirds majority can request a referendum and that citizens who gave the mayor the term in that same referendum take the mayor's term. To take it away from someone sitting in Germany, in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and to decide on life and death today in Serbia as an individual. The law should also look at our intention to change political culture in Serbia, to return to local communities, or citizens, the right to decide on themselves, to withdraw this right from the first vice-president of the government, who for a year deals only with crossovers of local self-government and political arrests. Anything else if we don't return this to the citizens, if deciding who will be mayor of Belgrade, Užica, Leskovec or Novi Sad we don't return it to the citizens and not give them direct elections, everything else is violence, dictatorship.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23369	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: 25 votes against – no one with abstention – was voted by 156 of the 181 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Meho Omerovic, pursuant to Article 92(2), Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out: Joint Principles and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Transport Intermediation and Repurchase of immovableity; Proposal for a Law on Exporting and Importing of Double Purpose; Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Competition Act; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the field of Information and Communication Technologies; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on Mutual Encouragement and Protection of Investments; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Morocco on the Establishment of the Mixed Commission for Trade, Economic and Scientific and Technical Cooperation (paragraph 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8thAgenda). Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Protection of Children and Co-operation in the field of international adoption; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Violence in the Family; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on Social Security; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on Social Security (points 9, 10, 11 and 12 of the proposed agenda). Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court; Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Administrative Court of Justice; Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal; Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade; Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Nis; Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac; Proposal for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time at the judge's office (point 13,14,15,16,17,18,19 and 20th agenda). Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the Number and Selection of Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to international parliamentary institutions; Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia (paragraphs 21, 22 and 23 of the proposed agenda). Does MP Meho Omerovic want a word? (No) I am putting this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23370	I conclude the vote and declare: for – 119, no one, with abstentions, voted 62 of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 121 against – one abstention – there is no vote, 54 of the 176 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, in general. I ask the service to prepare the consolidated text of the agenda. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Legalisation of Objects; 2. Proposal for a Transport Intermediation Act and for the hire of immovable property; 3. Proposal for a law on the export and import of dual-use goods; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Competition Protection Act; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of information and communication technologies; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Morocco on mutual incentive and investment protection; 8. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on the establishment of a Mixed Trade Commission, Economic and Technical Cooperation; 9. Proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Protection of Children and Cooperation in the field of international adoption; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Council of Europe Convention on the prevention and fight against domestic violence against women and violence; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Canada on social security; 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on social security; 13. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court; 14. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Administrative Court; 15. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the President of the Court of Auditors; 16. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Major Criminal Court; 17. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade; 18. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Nis; 19. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac; 20. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 21. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the number and selection of vice-presidents of the National Assembly; 22. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions; 23. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 24. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia; 25. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Legislization of Objects You have adopted a bill submitted by the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Does anyone suggest an extended amount of time? (No) I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in principle a search into the Bill on Legalisation of Objects. Does the proposalor's representative, Mr Velimir Ilic, the minister of construction and urbanism want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23371	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is before you today, as the first item of the agenda, the law on legalization. I'd like to ask your attention, if you'd like to listen, I won't be long. You know that the Law on Legalisation, which was adopted in 2009, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia, has put off all points. The law on legalisation has been put out of force and has been given a six-month deadline for the decision to be published and, of course, to come out with a new bill. The Constitutional Court has also made its remarks, what must be removed and how to enter the course of constitutionals, of course provisions that must be respected. Therefore, the new law on legalisation that was proposed fully respected everything the Constitutional Court asked for, so we didn't have any particular choice at all, because what we were asked to do was returned to be put into the frameworks of the law. Many Serbian citizens interfere with two laws, one law is the enrollment of the property that we recently adopted and which is a valid law, and this is the law on legalisation of objects entering a regular legalisation process. The Constitutional Court did not want a variety of reliefs to be found in the law, but rather that the law should be maltene as well as regular procedures for obtaining a building permit and reconciliation of obligations that were based on these grounds to be reconciled. These days many citizens, the mayors have reported, but they certainly haven't read the law, because it gives local authorities the opportunity to make certain reliefs possible through the rules they get, apply. So, this is a law that meets constitutional provisions, and local authorities are returning to the authority that it can correct certain obligations that will be met in the legalisation process. Local authorities have the right to adopt their own rules which they will respect, have the right to give reliefs, have the right to free certain structures of citizens who they consider necessary to free themselves, such as disabled, single mothers, have the right to release the socially most vulnerable of certain taxes and also have the right for those citizens who by their own means built certain infrastructure facilities, to release them from certain obligations, but through the law we cannot do, the law is unique to all, but local authorities are given the opportunity to do so. You know that wild construction is a crime and that wildly built objects now being done are the object of a criminal act of one who does, performs works. We need to understand once that we can no longer go through wild construction and we need to understand and warn certain services in cities across Serbia that they are entering the motions of the law that we have passed and that there is no interference until this law is passed. When it enters into force, it can also be legalised in the regular legalisation process. You know that enrollment in the catastran of immovableity is a special law that allows facilities of a private house up to 300 squares, cottages up to 200 squares and business space up to 100 squares, everything else must go into a regular process of legalisation and everything that is not the subject of trade, manufacturing for the market, can be entered, and anything that goes into the process of trade, traffic, must be legalized in a regular manner by the law that is before you today. Of course, all public facilities, public gathering facilities must be legalised in the regular process, because fire protection and certain evacuation exit measures must be respected and everything the law requires. You know that he was put out of force and the law on planning and construction, which was also adopted in 2009 and he is now in public debate, very quickly, after 30 days of this debate, will come here to Parliament and we will talk about him, so that through this law on regular legalisation we do not have any strong opportunities to change anything, because the Constitutional Court has clearly and loudly defined certain positions that can be done and can be done, so that there is no discrimination and that is here and written. We have a problem today. What do you do with the buildings that were built in the meantime, and their builders became the subject of a crime? What do you do with objects that were built in the meantime? We can certainly talk about this, because we have a vacuum when objects are built and certain citizens, who have done this, have committed crimes. But what do you do now with these objects that are so built? I would ask you to take this debate today based on the law itself, to see what we can do, and to take this very seriously, because there are many objects. About 720 items awaiting the legalisation process, which simply could not be done, because for months the law was anti-constitutional and out of function. I would not want now to make a political promotion out of something that is extremely important for many citizens of Serbia, to politicise, to talk. So, this law is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and it's that we could get the best of it. There was nothing there to do. We know it's a difficult situation. We know that certain privileges have been given in previous laws, but the Constitutional Court has put it out of force and said it cannot. In fact, this law is the same as the regular process of construction and obligations are identical. Everything you'll have in the law of planning and building you have here, except it's retroactively done for the objects that have been done. In particular, it refers to the facilities which are the subject of public gatherings. These are sports halls, malls, various and different business facilities in which more people work, etc. Many of these facilities and facilities that gather more than 10,000 citizens daily have no license, no papers, and that works for years. However, we must put it in order. You know we are going in and we are now in negotiations on EU accession. You know that there is a Single Catastre of Europe, that we need to fit into it, and we need to respect the standards that exist. It is possible that our constitution is not ideal, but as long as it is so, we must respect it. This law respected the Constitution, because it is our obligation, regardless of what many of you will have objections and ask for new solutions, but we cannot violate the Constitution, whether or not we believe that certain points of the Constitution should be changed. By joining the EU, a different modern constitution may be needed later, and while this one must be respected, it is appropriate for us. Therefore, I ask you to talk through a serious debate and what we can fix, if we can, if we can find a possibility, but the possibilities are very small, because I repeat, we will once again step out of the constitutional framework and we will still have problems that the Constitutional Court will react and renegotiate the law. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I thank you for your attention, and I would ask that your debate be focused on the law, and of course what I can do, I will answer your questions as to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23372	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23373	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, this draft law on the legalisation of objects provides for the procurement, i.e. the subsequent issue of a building and use permit for buildings, or parts of buildings built without a building permit, or used without the use of a permit. Investors, i.e. owners of these illegally built facilities, by obtaining a building permit, or by obtaining a useful permit, would significantly increase the market value of these facilities, and, indirectly, open opportunities for achieving other objectives, which would in any case contribute to economic development. The establishment of property rights on buildings, and in accordance with the final legalisation procedure, provides for the possibility for owners of such facilities in the sense that they can provide adequate loans, to carry out energy recovery of buildings, etc. The proposer, coming from this bill, says that he came from him, taking into account, above all, the results of the previous analysis of those legal provisions, could decidently tell us which, or laws governing the legalisation of objects, as well as what is mentioned, decisions of the Constitutional Court, which appreciated the constitutionality of certain provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, which relate to the legalisation of objects. I think that was enough to conclude that it is now necessary to write a bill to edit the so-called law as soon as possible. legalisation of buildings, i.e. subsequent issue of building permits, i.e. for those facilities listed in the draft law within that deadline, i.e. by 11 September 2009. In addition, such a solution also states that this creates conditions for bringing into legal flows of illegally built objects, but the proposer did not rationally explain on what basis and for which reasons only those facilities built by 11 September 2009, and the proposed proposer himself pointed out that there is a single legal vacuum in this regard. I'll agree with him, well, of course. Almost after that period, absolutely no illegal facility was built in the country of Serbia. The explanation that the proposal relating to the establishment of a new legalisation deadline for the facilities built after that date cannot be accepted for one simple reason, because if we are to refer to the provisions of the Constitutional Court, then I must point out that this is exactly the same provision that would be directly, or contrary to the position of the Constitutional Court, and that is expressed in the light of its decision declaring by the constitutional all those provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, which relate to the legalisation of the facility, given that it must bear in mind what you yourself have mentioned, which is that criminal law of illegal construction has been found just as a particular criminal act. I don't know if under the above analysis any proposer, I don't just think of you, implies some kind of self-critic as some relic of the past of a previous system, in which everyone could simply do whatever they wanted, but if he was willing to self-critical or to revise his position, then everything would be forgiven. Also, in a bill like this, the proposer begins to conclude that there has been more attempts in the Republic of Serbia to build objects against the laws and wherever possible, they now return to some legal frameworks and that it all began in 1997. I think it started a long time ago, but since 1997 they've only started to build up problems, so speaking of that 1997, I have to point out that the law on special conditions for the issue of building permits for certain objects represented this initial step. You stated that each of the following laws was becoming more liberal compared to its previous one, but, despite all the benefits that were actually foreseen by the Law on Planning and Construction, it did not give the expected effect, or, as you yourself stated, over 700 legalisation requirements exist today. Only about 15% has been solved. This seems to be due to the fact that, well, then you weren't able to suggest such a legal solution, which you personally consider to be good. If you think I'm being mean, I need to correct you and tell you right now that you're very wrong. You have stated that in the phase of making such a proposal is accessible by serious and fundamental preparations for the drafting of this bill. All suggestions submitted until the time of the Constitutional Court's decision, which is precisely provisions on land conversion in the legalisation of objects under the Law on Planning and Construction, are taken into consideration. Public debates were held between 24 May and 12 June 2013, where it is also a public debate, i.e. The round table held at the Sava Center was supposed to represent at least that crown of starting work. The public debate was organised in co-operation with permanent conferences of municipalities and cities. Imagine, 200 participants attended. Of course, in addition to representatives of municipalities and cities to be invited, representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency were invited, which is also commendable, representatives of the Serbian Chamber of Engineering, representatives of the Republic of Public Defence, the Republic Property Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, but what is interesting is that these public debates were not present and responded, such as law experts from the university and institutes. At the same time, the draft of this law was published on the Ministry's website. The suggestions that came by electronic means have also been taken into account. Suggestions from the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration relating to the harmonisation of criminal provisions have been accepted. According to one of these draft laws, with the law on infringements passed, the proposer now notes that, in relation to the draft law which was in the public debate, the text of the law is complemented and the provisions which are subsequently specified the proposal for legalisation. Then what do you need the public for? Why are you calling so much for these public debates if you are going to change something later and supplement something with certain provisions? The provisions spoken of by the Proposer will be specified by a sublegal act stating objects which cannot be subject to legalisation. I don't know why we have some eternal need for anything we can't do or don't know to solve with one bill to solve some future sublaws. It's become an obvious maneuver in our country. It is also noted that during the application of this law, the Ministry will take whatever it takes to achieve what is passed by this law and intends. That's good. This is excellent, and at the end of the day, and it is the job of the promoter, in fact, of the Ministry whose head is, but I must also note that this is the ground for examining the success or failure to apply the law if it is adopted, i.e. its applicability and inapplicability. Local self-government units, companies, organisations and citizens will be provided with the necessary expertise and I have no objection against it. The ministry will prepare and pass a sublaw that will bring some issues within the area of the law immediately after the entry into force of this law. We see that love of sublegating acts again. Because of this situation, I think you can expect a general legal circus that will later be completed by organising public debates and workshops in the administrative districts of Serbia, all in order to make some proper and consistent application of the law. I think this is one completely wrong order of steps. You also state that, in accordance with the requirements and legal powers, the Ministry will give an opinion on the application of certain provisions of the law itself. You should have pointed out that giving the Ministry's opinion on any issue from the Ministry's jurisdiction is simply non-binding, in fact, a completely non-binding opinion of the Ministry on any matter as a legal category. Also, in this bill, the proposer made some interesting statements, and some are mutually excluded. So the competent minister said – citizens do not have to legalise their facilities, but only enrolment in the immovableity cadastre is enough. If you own an object for 30 years and no one complains, it's enough to get into the cadastre. This is a statement issued by Minister Ilic on the first RTS programme. That's why we have the next statement that I can agree with in some way. Citizens are increasing, and this is what you mentioned in your principle presentation, mixing the Law on Immobilization in the Court of Serbia already adopted, and the Law on Legalisation that needs to be adopted, we know that it will be adopted, legalisation of the collection and requires a number of documentation, and that enrolment in a cadastre costs of 100 euros and that there is no additional cost after which you can mortgage objects, you can transfer them to your children, that this facility is forever on you, and that after your death, it is directed to your descendants and that is absolutely enough to function legally, except that such listed objects will not be sold. I wouldn't mind asking you a question. You say in one of these statements that such objects will not be sold. If these facilities can't be sold, how about the bank that mortgaged her to do it, what if she comes into a situation where the mortgage is activated? That question remains unclear. There's still a lot of your statements here, but I'm going to have to quote you and present you to the public one of the most interesting. It reads – Against urbanists who refuse to register an object in the cadastre, appropriate measures will be taken because there are urbanists who will not give permission and will not do their job. Ministers, just for the future, the inclusion of objects in public documents is carried out by RGZ, not by any urbanists. Just to be precise. I will not mention any more statements made by Minister Ilic about this bill, but I will agree with the following statement – Europe will no longer talk to us until we enter all the facilities into the cadastre. You're absolutely right about that. He won't, of course, talk to us. Will he talk to us if Europe sees this bill that's in the process today? I have to ask you, when you prepared this bill, did you run any comparative legal analysis, did you look at the law that governs this matter in Croatia, as a recent example of a country that has become an EU member? Have you looked at the law of Montenegro, you have the law of Republika Srpska, you have the law of the Federation of BiH, and all these solutions seem to me to be much better than those we have before us today. Here for a moment I have to go back in time because, of course, it's not your fault about what's going on today and it didn't start in 1997, it started much earlier. It is not a questionable fact that the legacy continues to exist in its hidden form, and this disguised form is manifested through the destruction of all those traces and legal misdeeds in the past almost five decades in our space in the field of planning and building and therefore reality is what it is for us. Just by ablowing the violation of all these legal regulations, through the nelados of inspection services, through the failure of spatial plans, through failed attempts of legalization, we have actually come to a situation today that we must falsely represent the EU with the claim that in fact all the illegal buildings were built legally, but with one factual finding standing in such a bill – that for the stability of these facilities the state is not responsible. In addition to these facts, the finding that this law is in fact starting the fifth wave of legalisation of built buildings in Serbia. The first wave began in 1997, when a special law was passed, precisely in order to legalise lawless construction, which, for the truth's sake, may even have been closest to this particular process of an organized beginning to correcting this unwanted trend. The law on special conditions for the issue of a building permit or the use of a building permit for certain facilities regulated specific conditions for the issue of a building permit for buildings or parts of a building built without approval in areas which were intended for construction of urban planning, namely for buildings of that kind and for buildings and for the purposes and determined the status of buildings built without approval in areas which the urban plan did not provide for or in areas for which no urban plan existed at all. Although the 2003 Law on Planning and Construction strictly determined that wild or illegal construction was a criminal offence for which the sentence of prison was intended, the legalisation deadline was again extended because it included in its provisions the legalisation procedure of the objects raised without authorisation. Even then, during the debate on the Law on Planning and Construction itself, the professional public criticised and pointed to all the problems that such legalisation would bring. Unfortunately, the professional public didn't make much of a mistake. You further have the February 2004 Vienna Declaration, which introduces and defines the term of informal settlements, and all in order to reach common agreement on the actions to be taken. One, it is the first regulation and promotion of informal settlements in one sustainable way, and two, to prevent all future illegal construction. The same declaration defines a number of things, but I'm not going to specifically quote them here. Let's say the lack of space is ranked as one of the seven greatest problems of the present world. This informal construction, of course, permanently changes in one long term sense, permanently destroys space and directly reduces future development opportunities. She's reporting to her two legal characters. First, in a situation where a building permit cannot be obtained at all, secondly, when that building permit is possible, but the investor did not ask for a building permit. Of course, problems date back many years. We can talk about it, we can actually start from the mid-80s when illegal construction was first localized in peripheral urban areas where buildings were built on pre-parked construction countries, but owners of course sold them for one lutrative purpose as building plots, to which it would be worth using agricultural land and, imagine, for the purpose of agricultural production. The law reportedly did not allow such transactions, but it was simply the authorities who smudged as always and did not punish owners at all for one illegal conversion of agricultural land into building land. Then, we have one of those completely illegal savagery in the central city blocks, also in the 1980s, where visible conditions are being taken up, where flat roofs are being occupied, where courtyards, sidewalks, streets, anything absolutely you can think of right now. And then a final stage of complete destructure of urban space was actually carried out, because a so-called temporary permit was introduced, on which the builder could build some smaller one, adapt the existing one or build up an existing object in the event of inclusion in the future regulatory plan, that facility could be legalised, in the event of non-compliance, it could not be legalised, but the builder, i.e. the owner, in the event of expropriation, would have been compensated for the value of that facility. At the same time, a law on the construction of residential buildings and the conversion of common rooms into apartments was passed and, at the same time, almost parallel to the adoption of the law began mass abuse of both institutions. At the time, it was already clear that with no temporary permits, these facilities would not be destroyed, no matter how much the investor broke through some parameters and for temporary permits, e.g. The index of building or flooring of an object or urban standards which have been respected for years as a civilization criterion and which, even today, in the regulated countries represent and should represent a civilization criterion. Of course, such permits are completely illegal, obtained through corrupt actions, absolute authorities at all levels of the ruling party nomenclature, that is to say, on such a suitable ground, it is understood that all services were corrupt, that the criminalization of the state was experiencing its full swing. There were all kinds of temporary permits and, of course, everything worked on the principle of "how much money, so many squares". Unfortunately, I think it's been a while for today. Since I don't have much time yet, I have to say that one of the major, fundamental failures in solving this mentioned problem that we are discussing today, which is the legalisation process, happened precisely in the process of revoking the urban norm that is formalized in sublegal acts and what is going on to this day. A good example of such a claim of what I have stated forward can be seen in the Decision on provisional rules and conditions for granting approval for the construction and use of permits for buildings built, or reconstructed without a building permit by 13 May 2003, and based on the legalisation of illegally built buildings. What's worrying is the fact that so-called The legalisation process of objects with this bill, which I believe is still to be corrected by the amendments submitted by almost all parliamentary groups, however, it is apparent that some positive EU signals are being sent. We must be aware that these positive signals, nor can they qualify as positive at this point, can they be as long as they are in the form of a good legal solution, and there is still time, yet it is not too late for it to become good, they do not implement the real, or true European values. These values already exist in different documents and should not be ignored in any way, and you did so in this bill in a statement of compliance with EU rules. One more thing, Minister, is the notion of legalisation of built objects, regardless of whether these objects are with or without construction, i.e. with or without the necessary permission, therefore, the notion of legalisation of built objects in EU legal legislation does not exist. I think that's exactly the fact that you should have kept in mind when you started drawing up a bill like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23374	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23375	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to put forward the views and opinions of the SVM parliamentary group on the draft law on the legalisation of objects. As we know, in the application of the Law on Planning and Construction, in which it was a special part set aside for legalisation, and in the meantime, the Constitutional Court of Serbia has put out force or declared this part of the law unconstitutional, since it was considered to be discrimination against citizens who previously legalized their facilities when they were building, in fact, those citizens who then respected our laws. Because of this situation that we do not have a legal framework for the legalization of lawlessly built objects, we must consider this law by emergency procedure. In the last three years, as we have heard, about 500 thousand demands have been submitted for legalisation of millions and 300 thousand illegal objects. So, there are about 700,000 objects left that have not submitted legalization applications so far. The question arises whether the owners of these facilities will be given permission to build or use a permit? Under this law that is before us, unfortunately, not their objects must be destroyed. About 20% of the requirements submitted have been made. I still have to point out that only 10% of the demands submitted have so-called. All the paperwork they need to have to legalize their facilities. We should point out that, unfortunately, citizens do not have enough money to do the whole legalization process. As regards the law itself or the bill itself, this law was held in public debate and in this public debate of the heads of cities and municipalities, local self-government did not have any more significant objections. Since we know that the municipalities and cities of this law are returning to freedom to determine the compensation for the construction land, the amount of compensation will be decided by their decisions within six months of the entry into force of this law. I think those who are more serious and follow our work, they will do it within two, three months before the next year's budget is passed, to plan these revenues for their budgets in 2014. I hope that the leaders of the local self-government will learn from the decision of the Constitutional Court when making their decisions on the amount of compensation and how to pay. I'll tell you what it's about later. What effect this law will bring, that time will tell. Unfortunately, in practice, as we can see, there won't be much response by citizens to legalization itself. Whoever doesn't want to sell their facility, house or building, they're not going to legalize it, they're just going to put it in the real estate pad. Citizens must submit their requirements to the cadastre where the facility is located in the municipality and must fulfil those obligations for which documents are provided for. They have to hire a geodetic to create a sketch of the entire facility, to draw up a record, see the specification. Of course, it is necessary to provide evidence of property. As I said, unfortunately, 90% of the requests submitted are not complete documentation. In the case of enrolment to the catastran, the narrow throat is with the local urbanist, from which it is necessary to obtain proof that the facility is not built on the surface of public purposes or with cultural or natural goods. This document is free and the catastra worker is required under official duty to ask the urbanist. The deadline for delivering this document is about 15 days, but unfortunately, in practice as we know it is a month or maybe a few months. So, the bottlenecks are currently local urbanists. As for business and the very organization of catastras on the ground, I come from the municipality of Senta, which has 23,000 inhabitants, and four people are currently working in the cataster. Ten years ago, there were about 10 workers, and that was about the optimal number of workers for this job, such as Senta. Now I don't know in other cities of our country what an opportunity it is, but I claim that these four men can hardly do the physical work of this size. We must point out that citizens who enter their facility in the cadastre must pay a tax on property. By enrolling in a cadastre, all we get is property rights, and based on ownership rights, we have to pay taxes. This was about mortgages and loans. The point is that a mortgage can only be placed on a legally built facility. It cannot go to an illegally built facility that has not yet issued a building permit or a used permit and remains officially illegal. Since I've worked as a banker for 20 years, I know what a banker's attitude is on this subject. The illegal squares won't be able to buy on credit. We can't guarantee them buying some other property. Whether it's listed in a cadastre or not, the mortgage can't be placed on a facility like this. Citizens need to know that every housing loan in our country has to be secured at the National Corporation. The state is the majority owner of the National Corporation and the state must first acknowledge the mortgage, and then the bankers will do their part of the job. Which banks will accept this mortgage is a sign question, because if the debtor doesn't pay his loan then the corporation pays 75% of that loan to the bank. Unfortunately, the remaining 25% is so-called. the loss or cost of the bank. That's why banks won't accept mortgages for illegal facilities. In this bill of law, we need to know that citizens need two more documents to deliver. One is a state-of-the-art project, and another is evidence of a paid compensation for the construction land. For the first document, they have to hire a geodetic to do their job, make up a sketch of the facility, make a record of atmosphere and specification. It'll certainly cost them, but it's not that much money. Unfortunately, the documents that have been submitted for legalization are mostly missing this sketch, this job that needs to be done by a geodetic. I think the most objections will be in this bill of law. 21 and 22, especially Article 21, because I think the big problem is the poorly formulated text of this member, since there is no precise provision. For example, Article 21 states that the body responsible for legalisation is obliged to require applicants to submit documents within a period of no longer than one year from the entry into force of this law. What's that gonna mean in practice? If the law enters into force on 20 October of this year, then citizens have the right to submit their demands by 20 October of next year. If the competent authority will notify the citizen at the end of September next year, what will it be? Citizens won't have enough time to collect their paperwork. I'm sure whoever wrote this text of the law wanted to give this deadline to the authorities for a year, but unfortunately, this part of this text has not been done precisely here, and with this bad wording, it turns out that it was given to the citizens, and the institutions remain willing to do their job. There is also a small conflict between Articles 22 and 27, as Article 22 states that applicants who receive written notice have six months from the date of receipt of the notice to send their missing documentation. The question now arises – citizens and businesses do not know what their deadline is, whether they are six months or one year, six months after receiving the notice or one year after the law enters into force. The SVM parliamentary group submitted one amendment on Article 21. We wrote this amendment to sort of correct this conflict between the two members. In our amendment, you will see that we have set a deadline for institutions to deliver information to citizens, but we will talk about this later. As for the very compensation for building land, we have a few objections here. Since it is written in the law that paying this fee can be done once or in wars for up to 20 years, the problem is that it is not accurately written or determined whether it is a one-time payment or a war and how many years. Who's going to decide? It's up to the municipalities to determine whether for a year, two or 10 or 20 years to pay citizens for wars. Here we should say, as we have heard, that the Constitutional Court has reached a solution that legalisation is unconstitutional since one part of the citizens has been placed in an unequal position, and now the question is raised – is that the same thing with this fee? So if we're giving again the opportunity for some citizens to pay these payments to the wars, to the credit, and those who legalized their facilities suddenly had to pay for it. So, there's gonna be a lot of problems here in practice, and I hope there's not gonna be a lawsuit in the Constitutional Court again. In determining the fees for municipalities, it is not precisely done, or decided which guidelines to take when determining the amount of compensation. Then it will turn out that each municipality will interpret the law differently and these fees will be different from the municipality to the municipality. The second level will be the fee, or the amount of the fee. As for the destruction of objects itself, in this law or the bill, it explicitly regulates the collapse in two situations. If the application for legalisation was filed by 11 March 2010, and this request was rejected, then the facility was destroyed, or if the facility was built after the entry into force of the Law on Planning and Construction, then, after 11 September 2009, the same facility collapses. What about those facilities that haven't been filed yet? They were built prior to the entry into force of the law on planning and construction, but were not given a request. Is it taken the same principle as for the buildings built after 11 September 2009, meaning automatic demolition? But it's supposed to be written decadently, at least that's what we think. The SVM parliamentary group thinks it is necessary to pass a law that regulates this area, legalize objects in our country, but we must pass such a law that will precisely formulate, or decidently write what to do, or what to do exactly, which are obligations, deadlines for the institutions implementing legalisation, what to pay for, and, as I said, what to do with those objects for which they have not submitted applications, which are built, so as not to tear down those objects. The SVM parliamentary group in the voting day will vote against the Law on Legalisation of Objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23376	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milovan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23377	Dear President, Mr. Minister, respected fellow MPs, the law we have today had the opportunity to plead is from a group of very important laws, because its implementation is being touched, or it is trying to solve a problem that has been accumulated in Serbia, in our society for years, and all the problems that are related to illegal or illegally built objects date back to deep in the past and this is just an attempt to resolve the existing situation in one part of the legalisation of illegally built objects. I can say that it's better to have some law that makes it possible to legalize illegally built objects than not to have them. This bill of law has a lot of inadequacy and indiscretion. I hope that the legislator through the sublegislative acts and through the powers of the minister, defined by Article 19, will more precisely define some of the misunderstandings or some of the misunderstandings given in the proposal for this law. The ZZS parliamentary group supports the adoption of such a law. Once again, let me point out, it is better to solve a part of the problem that exists than not to face such a problem, but the fundamental question is whether we can solve this problem to the end, which should result in one precise record of ownership of the immovable property and rights over them. Why was it impossible, I did not fully understand, in the light of the law, to give a new deadline for buildings built before 11 September 2009, when the current Law on Planning and Construction entered into force, which also dealt with this problem, related to legalisation? It was explained that after the Constitutional Court's decision, it is not possible to define a new deadline, without including those that were built after the entry into force of the applicable law, which would be a criminal offence. I don't think only those who illegally built the problem, doing the crime after 11 September 2009. The problem is also with those citizens who obviously did not have enough motive, no desire, or the need to apply for legalisation under the previous law in March 2010, however he was later declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court decision. I do not see that this law will fully equalise the rights of those who have illegally built and those who have respected the regular procedure, and in particular it will not equate the position of citizens who have not applied within the earlier deadline, and there are approximately half of them in relation to some estimates of the total number of illegal objects. The requirements are 700,000 and 700,000 have illegal facilities, according to estimates and the data we have. I don't think that anyone in the state of Serbia will have the intention of neither political nor administrative action to approach the destruction of these 700,000 objects that have been reportedly built in illegal procedures, and have not submitted an application and have no chance of access to the legalisation of their facilities. Those who have submitted a request, and in the legalisation process, or late, or it turns out that, on the basis of complete documentation, they cannot access legalisation, will receive an urgent solution to the destruction and to the solution of the construction inspection of such facilities, or should at least access the implementation of the solution of these facilities. Don't let the lack of funds, we build enough, we resort to destruction because it's cheaper, it's simpler. I'm sure that's not going to happen, but we need to find a way to end this issue, related to a precise record of immovableities, or to establish an immovableity cadasar, not only because of the increase in revenues in local budgets, not just for the sake of legal certainty in real estate transport, but because of everything a well-organised state needs when the topic is this matter. We believe that the provision of the law which treats and issue a applicable permit for facilities, which were built in a regular procedure with a building permit before 11 September 2009, does not make any sense, as it is possible that the application for a licence in a regular procedure, under the applicable Law on Planning and Construction, should be submitted by all those who built before 11 September 2009. It is possible that a large number of applications have been submitted for the authorisation of use under the previous law, since they are in the procedure, now this law which is a kind of lex specialis, because it treats only the requirements that are already with the competent authorities and, practically, by completing all these procedures, this law will not cease to apply, but will no longer make any sense. I expect that the new law on planning and construction, as the minister announced, will approach the adoption of such a law, will comprehensively treat this matter in such a way that we simply have some indication that the state will approach the final conclusion of the job. It's not that simple, but we can't put it off forever. It is mentioned here, and that is the fact that in 1997, the first law was passed and every next government and every next minister was trying to solve this problem, but we may be one step closer, but only by one step closer, that we will reduce the number of illegal objects and those who have not entered the legalisation procedure, but we are not even halfway closer to the final solution and resolution of this problem. In the legislative proposal, several housing facilities have indicated that the payment is made up of compensation for the construction land's regulation. We don't think it's a good thing it's binding. Well, it's a good thing that it's something that can be done concessionally. It's very important what I'm talking about right now, because the legal proposal, as defined, does not allow an investor who has applied for the legalization of a multi-state building in general to pay for the entire building land compensation facility, but has been imperatively defined that the owners of certain parts of such a residential building have to do it succesfully. The period left for paying fees, as defined, is left to local self-government and I suppose other deadlines will also be an opportunity for local self-governments to compete, in some way, under the assumption of efficiency, to show that they have to worry about the quick resolution of this problem and to offer their citizens an effective way to end all legalisation procedures, although, frankly, I believe that, since legalisation, under this bill, it will not cost little, in the end, as the minister said, it is a alignment with what the Constitutional Court has put in place as an objection to the instability of the previous law, so that it is possible that individual applicants will give up the legalisation process. In addition, the legal possibility to enter property rights under the law that has been passed provides those citizens with one type, one step towards entering a legalisation, not with the right to traffic such property, but as the minister has said several times, that it will give citizens some security, that they have entered property with the right to inherit and all other rights resulting from it, except for the right to traffic and to transfer property rights on this basis. I'm not sure that's a good motive for those who have facilities and should pay compensation and all the legalisation costs to access legalisation when it's not binding. The question, that the law did not define the obligation of legalisation, is the fundamental question – why are we ineffective in the field of solving this problem, the problems of legalising illegally built objects? I simply don't see any reason not to approach this problem, because if the existing Law on Planning and Construction, and hopefully each of the following, the issue of lawless construction, or the beginning of construction without the approval of construction or building permit, treats it as a criminal offence, I don't see why we should delay that the illegally built buildings and obligations of investors or current owners of these illegally built objects are obliged to access legalisation under the legal conditions prescribed by the State. Of course, the primary objective, with all the reasons for the law, legal certainty, property transport security, is that the primary objective is a precise record of property rights in the territory of the entire Republic in terms of all immovableities, all the objects that are presently defacto exist, but which are not included in the equities catalogue and is that citizens and those who approach legalization and registration, as we say, their facilities, can access their recovery for energy efficiency, to put them in the market, to use them for mortgages, to sell them at higher prices, all of which is motive, but it is insufficient to have far higher, not to say the 100% access of any owner of an illegally built facility for its legalisation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the state's interest is to have that record, the ownership of the entire Republic, which corresponds to the fact on the ground, where the property is located. It is very important that the sublegal act, which, as I am informed as a member of the Committee on Planning and Construction, is prepared, is accurate, comprehensive and that the education of competent authorities, primarily I think of local self-government where they are, assuming that the Ministry and the competent authorities in the province have larger professional capacities, to immediately approach this legalisation procedure under the new law, but local self-government and small municipalities will certainly have many questions and needs for education to be organised by the Ministry, in order to approach this process in a more efficient and quality manner. I would say that the rest is unarranged, only in article 19, in the power of the minister, is that it will be more precise to prescribe the design and specific projects for some facilities. It is logical to think of public facilities and buildings with multiple housing units. If today you have one object that is public character, a large area facility, which is used for any purpose, where a large number of people come in, I'm talking about the security character of such an object that has no record of the way of construction, it's possible that the investor from that time is no longer available, whether it's a physical or legal person, for objective reasons, that neither the responsible engineer nor whether the project was done, if it was done, whether it was serious objects, whether it was audited, whether it was agreed on such a project, whether the object carried out was in accordance with the static budget, we are talking about the most banal things that were done in that project, and now needs someone with full responsibility, some licensed designer, to do a project of state of execution based on which this object will finally get a useful permit and thus become, with the signing and solution of the competent authority, safe to use and use. It's not a bit irrelevant and it's not a bit simple to declare such an object based on a state-of-the-art project if there's no such documentation, but I'm sure those who are dealing with this problem will have it all in mind. I don't want it to be in our practice -- it can be like this, and it can be done anyway. These are very sensitive jobs, so I think we still have a lot of work to do, not only for the implementation and implementation of this law, so that it will give its final effects for which we bring it, but also for the coverage of all those owners of the facilities that were built by 11 September 2009 without a building permit and without building approval. At least I care about those mentioned by the minister, who were illegally building, without authorisation and after the entry into force of the previous Law on Planning and Construction. It is a problem that we have to record and give a solution, but if after 11 September 2009, construction without a building permit is a criminal offence for both the performer and the investor, I don't know why this crime, if we have already defined it through law, would have had some special treatment in relation to any other type of criminal act when it comes to its perpetrators. I believe that the implementation of this law will show the willingness of all competent authorities in local self-government, the province and at the level of the Republic to seriously approach the resolution of this problem. I therefore once again stress, of course, that, with our insistence that the amendments we have submitted are accepted, because in some technical parts they certainly improve this law, that we will support the adoption of this law and that citizens who have submitted the application and who are in the legalisation process will have reason to, in accordance with this law, supplement their documentation, access to legalisation and enter their immovableities into public records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23378	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23379	Dear President, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, at a time when in EU countries it is decided whether it is necessary to legalise same-sex marriages, while in many EU countries this issue has already been resolved, of course, positively or negatively, while we are witnessing that this government is unable to ensure the achievement of basic human rights guaranteed by the Constitution of individuals and prohibits so-called. "The Parade of Pride", we are here discussing the Law on Legalisation of Objects. The law, unfortunately, is only needed in Serbia, since illegal construction as a concept in regulated countries does not exist. The LSV Group believes that this law has a series of shortcomings, which we have pointed to by submitting the amendment, we have submitted four amendments to this law, but all the shortcomings of this law are not only seen in that. First of all, I would go through the analysis of certain members of the law that we believe are not defined and that they are really creating a series of ambiguities that will lead to problems in the interpretation and application of this law when you adopt it. Article 3 states which buildings cannot be subsequently issued a building permit, which stresses that this permit cannot be issued if the buildings are built on land which are unfavourable for construction, unless the facilities are constructed from material of satisfactory quality or if the sustainability of this material is not satisfactory. What you failed to specify in this article is – who ever determines such land status, who determines the quality of the material and who determines the sustainability of the material? In the same article, you shall further state that no construction permit may be issued subsequently for buildings constructed or reconstructed for the purposes and floors of the facility, contrary to the conditions prescribed by the design document or the provisions of the Regulations on general rules for the lotion, regulation and construction. I think if the facility was built in accordance with the plan's document, then it's not illegal. We need to point out the fact that the largest number of illegal builders and legalizes buildings is precisely because they're deviating from the planning documents. This is a special case just when it comes to the flooring of the facility. As far as I understand it, this provision applies only to objects which do not have the necessary permits, which have been built in accordance with the planning documentation. Furthermore, Article 5(1) does not address the problem of illegal objects built or reconstructed after 9/11, and these objects, we are all aware of this, have quite. We ask the question – will it, by what path, be regulated to some new ones by whom the law on legalisation is passed, or what will this law be called, since in the light of the law on the side of seven fates of these illegal objects remains unclear? In Article 6, you state that the authority responsible for issuing the building permit determines whether the facility meets the prescribed conditions for construction and use. I think that this is necessary to define more precisely and that you had to do this, because the prescribed conditions for building and using really represent something that is very important. This formulation, which is so broadly set, provides more than great opportunities for the creativity of the competent authority in the direction of interpreting these conditions, while excessive creativity usually leads to selective application of the law and gives the possibility of different types of abuses. To be precise, it opens up the possibility of corruption. We also believe that it might be practical for you to request in the provisions of Article 15, in addition to the project task, the basics of characteristic cuts, objects, technical reports, etc., as you already state, and the application of photos from all sides, since only in this way can the attached documents be compared with the built-up facility on the ground, in addition to these already prescribed graphic contributions. What also remains unclear is why a specific type of project of a project carried out for legalisation is being developed for family housing up to 300 metres of grossly developed building area, as you state in Article 14, so you are working in art. 15 and 16 laws, and not made for family housing over 300 meters of grossly developed building surfaces, but only for housing of grossly developed building area over 300 meters, while family buildings are being abandoned? Why are these family housings left out over 300 square meters? It is clear that family housing can be over 300 meters [300 m] of grossly developed building surfaces. The question remains who do you want to deprive yourself of the pleasure of developing a special kind of project of a project executed for legalization purposes? Also, in Article 31, you prescribe the duty of local self-government to adopt a general act within six months of the date of entry into force of this law, which will closely regulate the criteria for determining the level of compensation, the conditions under which the right to reduce compensation can be exercised, as well as the conditions and method of payment of compensation. This question is especially important to us. Since local self-government is left with such a long deadline, this means that until this general act of legalization is passed and cannot be implemented. Therefore, we LSV MPs are asking a question – why is this law being passed by emergency procedure? There was no reason for an emergency procedure if the local self-government was left with such a long deadline for the adoption of this general act. Also, as in any law that regulates certain rights and obligations, there are also criminal provisions. What's interesting is that there are no criminal provisions for building inspectors anywhere. I ask the question – who brings solutions? They're brought by construction inspectors. Who's the biggest culprit for illegal construction? Who hasn't acted in cases of illegal construction? No administrative building inspectors acted. Then why are no penalties prescribed for their non-compliance? Finally, in my opinion, the most controversial member of this law is Article 38, for several reasons. First of all, for reasons that directly affect the rights of individuals who have already been achieved. This article states that legalisation procedures are to be initiated until the date of entry into force of this law, as requested by 11 March 2010, which are not terminated until the date of entry into force of this law, should be terminated in accordance with the provisions of this law. Since 11.03.2010, citizens have acted on already submitted requirements, and according to what the authorities have ordered them to do. They attached the paperwork, delivered it. There were a lot of objects. Many of these proceedings have not been completed. Most often it is not the fault of those who have submitted these requests. The technical documentation required under the new law does not differ much from the documents submitted under the previous law but certainly its addition represents for investors and citizens of additional costs. We consider it rational that the documentation submitted under the old law is accepted as complete and settled under the provisions of the old law, unless the applicant decides otherwise, as we have proposed by amendment to this article. Those documents that are submitted after the adoption of this law and the requirements submitted after the adoption of this law are logical to be settled under the provisions of this law. We feel that no one should suffer beyond their guilt that the administration, the state administration, has done its job in an adequate way, which is to obtain new documents that are similar to the documents that have already been obtained and that there are costs. In the end, I would say that LSV is certainly an attitude that legalisation of objects in Serbia must finally be implemented to the end and ended. What is certainly devastating is the fact that through legalization one needs to amnesty one’s crimes that has not been reacted to in good time. Legalisation has been going on for 20 years in the Republic of Serbia, the results are negative. We have as absurd as more illegal objects are now than when this problem began to be put into legal frameworks. The non-implementation process adequately damaged both the state and those citizens who acted by law and fulfilled their obligations. We believe that there is a need to simplify and cheapen the legalisation and registration procedure of a legal entity and ensure law enforcement but we also believe that those who break the laws should be severely sanctioned. If we want to live in an orderly state, this is certainly the beginning that although late for the Republic of Serbia needs. Finally, I would like to say that LSV MPs will decide whether this law will support, and what will depend heavily on whether the amendments we have made to this law will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23380	The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23381	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the JS parliamentary group welcomes the government's and the ministry's efforts to try once again to solve a burning problem in the Republic of Serbia that exists, according to a colleague, for more than 20 years. I would say, personally, for more than 30 years, and this is illegal or illegal construction that has so far not, of any government or local self-government, in an extremely serious and responsible way tried to prevent it. Of course, all attempts to introduce legal flows and legally bring in the obtaining of building and use permits all the facilities that were raised before 11 September 2009 when a new law was passed were more or less unsuccessful for several reasons. If I were to start listing the reasons why it didn't work out, it would seem to me that there would be little time for the parliamentary group, or for the head of the parliamentary group, to explain them. Of course, it was political and moral and some other reasons but in any case through this law the Government and the Resort Ministry once again, for who knows which time, and I think it's the last time to try to literally get those who have illegal facilities up without building permits scarred and that they can get building permits, use permits, and already get in the way once. There was a story here about the right to enter property on these facilities. According to us from the JS parliamentary group, this will create certain problems with certain citizens who have raised and built illegal facilities, to get a building permit by enrolment, i.e. with geodetic services. This should be made clear to them, as it is said, that it is not the same, although the question is asked, is it possible to enroll property on something that is not formally and legally existing? If there's no building permit for some construction facility it doesn't exist in a formal legal sense, it's air, it's gone. It's in the field, but it's not in the papers, it's in the rights. It is, however, but it is an attempt to enable citizens who have such facilities to say, because of their successors, there is a right to property on some building that has been erected in some local self-government, city, village. There were also questions about the cost of enrolment, i.e. legalization of the facility. We in the J.S. feel that we don't need citizens to share in whether someone paid or didn't pay. Everyone has to pay the state what is required to legalize one object. Therefore, if a citizen who has raised his building, apartment, business space or something else has made compensation for the construction of city building land or, as we say in the province, so-called. Communals, they have to pay those who have illegal facilities to legalize them. The question is raised, and the law stipulates that this will be determined by local self-government and that "hot potatoes" in determining compensation has been so far and remains in the hands of local self-government. However, the law stipulates in this article that the compensation deadline can go up to 20 years. I am also afraid that the JS parliamentary group is afraid that most citizens do not get hold of that deadline, which is 20 years old, and that they are asked to allow them to make compensation for the urban building land in monthly amounts at 20 years for the buildings they have built. It will happen and it is normal and it is the right of local self-government to set those deadlines, to set prices, to arrange the reduction of fees, etc. and that there will be some misunderstandings. What I would ask on behalf of the JS parliamentary group to further specify the rules of the future is that Article 4 said to legalise the building, issue building and use permits. What degree of construction will be taken as a built-up facility to legalize the facility? Is this a completely complete facility? Is the facility placed under the roof or is it in another phase of construction? That should be precise because in this article it is not precise. When it comes to the size of the building, and the minister was talking about enrolling property rights, so just to make a little trip, he said – homes up to 200 square meters are being entered. Please, most people in Serbia live in buildings of 50 to 100 square meters. Which cottage is illegally built, which is what it's for if it's 200 square feet. He would have to pay first, to be the first on the list to pay compensation for editing city building land, because if he had the money to make a 200 square-square cottage, he would certainly have the money and to pay compensation for the construction of the city's building land. Therefore, there should be no pain at all and everyone would have to do so. Also, objects are divided in size when it comes to legalization up to 300 and over 300 square meters, I'm talking about housing facilities. You know what, we from JS, where our facility is in Jagodina, we know a lot of people who live very comfortablely in 100, 120 square meters, 150 square meters. What kind of objects are these? What are these houses where you live and how many members of a 300 family or don't know how many squares? This may have to, we didn't tolerate amendments, we didn't want to, as it says, pour oil on fire, we want this law to be passed as soon as possible, but we need to think about when local self-governments bring their own regulations that those who have the appropriate size of a built building facility, unlegalized, are benefited in terms of fees, and that those who wanted to luxuriately, etc., are sanctioned by paying the full price of this fee for regulating city building land and paying at a shorter time interval. Local self-government must, from their resources, budget funds to bring water, sewerage, electricity, gas, all the way to these facilities, because when these citizens legalize these facilities, they will require that they be able to have a normal connection to all these facilities, i.e. that distribution networks be present to their facilities. Here, the law provides for temporary issuing, i.e. allowing connections to electricity, water, sewerage, etc. and in the event that there is no legalisation for some reason, that no building permit or use is obtained, those buildings shall be excluded from the distribution organisations' connections by order of the construction inspection. However, there will be when it is, if there are such situations, a huge problem, but I would like to see who got the connection to electricity, has small children, wants to come and if not, has not received a building permit, that someone will turn off the power that will not have electricity in that facility. There's nothing to do with that job, which means that as soon as he joins, it's our Serbian rule for good. When it comes to the validity of this law, I would only ask that since the transitional and final provisions say that it will be applied, that all proceedings will be concluded by the provisions of this law. All proceedings for legalisation of objects could not have been completed, as the Constitutional Court's decision of last year, i.e. since this year, of 7.6, these provisions of the existing law were put out of force, the Department of Urbanism, Construction and Property-Legal Affairs in local self-government could not apply it, simply could not end these proceedings and was well left to be completed under this procedure. All in all, not to owe much, the JS parliamentary group will support this law, but I would like to ask the Resort Ministry and ask the Resort Ministry that, in the application of this law with the supplementary regulations or already the rules, etc., explain some of the ambiguities that are already in place, it will report in the application of this law and if we can finally put a point once and for all on illegal construction in the Republic of Serbia, and that this is not the subject of every new government, every new calling of this Parliament, but simply if we want to enter Europe and be part of the European people, that we must respect the rules, we must respect the laws, that all citizens are equal before the law and before the regulations. Therefore, I conclude, the parliamentary group will support this bill in principle, possibly in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23382	The word has Minister Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23383	Here are the Members of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully and, in order to not answer individually, I have now wanted to answer some questions. It is true that the problem of Serbia has been current for over 30 years. In Serbia, wildly built, and it was a habit for a time, and no one was doing anything. People lived hard, built for themselves and their family, by their own means on their homeland, grandfather, or on some property they got, and it just went down to chronic. It is true that the ministries tried and many ministers by passing new laws to resolve this problem, but there was no unity in this. Not only can the ministry or the ministry, the ministry has ten inspectors at the level of Serbia as a whole. Ten is small for Belgrade, and I'm not talking about national parks, etc., but that's why there are local inspection services, the local authorities that have peacefully tolerated all this. I don't want to say that it's not the responsible ministers, the people in the ministries, etc., but if they had acted by law, there would be a revolution in Serbia. Look at just one case that happened. Three years ago, the government of the Republic of Serbia raised a 300m-euro investment loan. The credit was raised for a company that doesn't have an ar of land. They got the loan and spent 300 million euros and now they all came to me to give them permission. How did they get credit for not leading them? Then we had to ask the owner to give them land, etc. Now people say -- what do we do, 300 million euros is taken from the outside and where do we go now? You can't get a license, people can't start working. What am I supposed to do now? Should I take the bulldozers and tear down 300 million euros? You know that some state officials came and asked for the largest infrastructure facilities to be destroyed because they didn't have permission. You know that many buildings are being built today without permission, no one is talking to the minister or the ministry, they're working, they're building people. Do you believe there are thousands of criminal charges that have been made and no one has activated any of them? Why? Everyone protects each other. Do you know that 100m euros worth of buildings here in Belgrade were built without a single paper? When the inspector filed a criminal report, what happened? Panic. Criminal application in the drawer, no one touches it, the press asks – does he? She does, but don't touch her. Do you know that the father, or leader of a party, was taking bribes over his son so that he wouldn't tear down the facilities and give the jury an account to pay off money? It exists in the M.O.P., and do you think anyone triggered those reports? It's not. What can I do, go beat them? Fight with them? We send an inspector, they throw a bucket of malts at his head and say, "It's over, let me go." Gentlemen, this is Serbia's problem, but everyone has to participate in this, all the institutions of the state, if we're going to solve this problem. If you today think the minister can finish this, one or ten inspectors, it's none of it. You write a report, no one reacts, people build wildest objects. Everyone comes to me and brings in foreign companies and asks for everything to be free, just give them the paper tomorrow, the investor leaves. How can they legalize? How do we make the papers? Do you believe that the other day the president of the municipality, the general director of a great giant, brought false documentation, the facility was built in the green area of the park, a huge object, and he's lying to me, we pulled it out of the green surface. The inspectors go to the place and say, "Well, no, inside." What do you do now? To tear down 30% of Serbia? So, I'm begging people, here, now there's going to be a building permit under the new law for free, just go and ask permission – they won't fill out. We're writing now, there's some paper missing, so just bring it in so you're not on the green surface, nothing. That's what we said urbanism was inactive. All it takes is one piece of paper that you're not on the green surface and you're not on the street, and he says - he hates me, if he can, write it down, if he can't, he doesn't have to. This is the problem of the state. This is the problem with all of us. If we're going to solve this, we all have to. I repeat, no criminal charges, and there are thousands, are not activated against anyone. You know I used to say that bridges were made without permission, overpasses, underpasses, loops. People just build, don't ask questions. Without the DRI, it's perfectly normal. But after that, when a valid permit is needed, he says to her – please draw up a review, then everyone comes to me, all ministers, all officials of previous governments, etc. I've been with this problem for years. Then when they come, they say, "Don't ruin us, man." To me comes the CEO of a giant and says – you know, tomorrow 3,000 people come to you before the government, they can't start working, Ministers sign, siege. So what do you do? These are the problems of all of us. I'm here now. There'll be someone else tomorrow. That's why this problem needs to be solved. A mayor came to me and told me that he had 3,000 buildings built in a zone where it was not allowed to be built illegally. I ask him, "How many criminal charges have you made?" He tells me, "None." I ask him, “What are the inspectors doing to you? ” He tells me: “They must not go out in the field. Do you know who's building everything there? “ How, then, are we going to stop wild construction? The D.A.'s not responding, the D.A.'s not responding. I ask: protect me the inspector, lock him up in the building, not let him out until he breaks the record, and they say, "We are not in charge." And he keeps his wife there all day and he won't let her out. Eventually, they take her bag and she goes home. So what do you do? Where's the state? It's been 20 years. This was 15 years ago. The poor woman says, "Give me anything else to do, don't send me, please." We can solve this if the local authorities get involved, the inspection services, the prosecution, the court, the police. The inspector is a clerk, the institution of this state, when he comes to the site everyone has to say – please, here's the documentation. But they won't give him the papers. They won't let him in. Or if they let him out, they won't let him out. It's not ideal for this law. But we have to have a law on legalization, a lot of people are looking for it, a lot of people want to pay honestly, people can't open a company, they can't do business. Many companies have been sold without paper, without a building permit, without even one single paper. What am I supposed to do now? Should I tell the factory to crash, to drive people home? Do you know that for 60% of the factories sold in privatisation, all parties participated? They didn't even have a building permit, no use, nothing. Did you know that when we sold certain facilities, take NIS for example, 80% of the pumps were not legalized? Someone said - build here, hit here, can do here, etc. Now that people ask, what have we bought, what shall we say to them? Nothing. That's where the torture started, the stretching, the making of papers. We all know exactly what to do, but that's what we should all be involved in. If we want to stop wild construction, to reduce our obligations to a minimum, we all have to activate and engage and respect certain institutions of this country. He won't, and that's what I was saying. We've been changing laws. Every government has changed the law. What happened? We haven't changed the people who need to do it, clerks. He has his own procedure and you can never change it for him. As long as he's alive, he puts it in a drawer and he's waiting for something. What's waiting, you know it best. Don't move, don't touch the drawer until further notice. When you send an inspection and ask – why didn't you legalize it, why didn't you put it in the real estate catalogue? He won't take credit, he won't do anything, he wants to sign up. He says, well, he can't do it right away, he has to wait. Yesterday, I was in Verbas. I asked people why they didn't sign him up, and he said, "Well, he can't do it right now, he's got to wait a little longer." I asked how long to wait and if there was any reason not to sign in, and he said, "Well, there is no." I don't know, I'll see. He thinks he's coming now, so now... The new law on planning and construction will be free of charge. You come and get your license. You're not paying anything. Let's see if it's a wild construction then, if someone has the nerve to build wilds if they can get the paper and they're told they'll get the paper very soon. And then there'll be wild construction. He won't fill out the form. Believe me, they won't fill out the form and turn it over to the counter. He won't. He can't make him, and a lot of people who would, they don't have any money. People tell me, and ten thousand is a lot to me, because I don't have a dinar. What do I do to him? There's a problem, I repeat, but we need to do everything together as a country. You said, "Where can't you legalize an object?" He can't go to the rink, he can't go to the green surface. Do you believe I have 20 reports of an object being built in the cemetery? The man cut off part of the cemetery and built a house. You go, he takes the gas bottle, he brings the kids, and there's nothing you can do about it. You've been reading about the papers these days when the inspectors left... Here, from Ivanjica, we have a case where the Supreme Court ruled that the facility had to be torn down. There's no technique not to collapse. The other day the police brought a man here to the government, he came to burn himself in front of the government. The police brought him in, brought him in and said, "Minister, what should we do with him?" What do they do? I don't know if he's gonna set himself on fire or not. The whole family came and everyone said – please, don't, put it down, put it away. How? He's jeopardizing another facility. The other object was completely destroyed because it was illegally created, because the man was abroad, was not there and could not control the construction. He didn't even know this guy built an illegal facility. The presidents of the municipalities come, and they pray – don't, pull, we have problems. So, I'm really asking you, if there's anything we want to do, that we all do it together. It's the easiest thing to sit down and criticize and say no law is right. It's true, if it doesn't apply, if we don't all get involved in it, we'll have a problem with every law. Every minister has worked hard. Here, Dulic gave the malts everything to be free and the man failed to do anything. He can't. They submitted requests, blank paper, just wrote the name and last name and number of the cadastrian plot and he wrote a memo there – please submit the basic documentation and everything will be fine, and they did not deliver and will not deliver. You call them 20 times and give them a period of 15 to 20 days, and they say, "I have no time, I will see, I will surrender, and so on." So this is the problem of the state, this is the problem of state institutions, this is all our problem. We are on the margins, because we cannot solve this problem, we must be determined and all institutions are determined. They're talking to me, waiting for permission, not giving permission to foreign investors. Here, I call on a public investor to come foreign and domestic in my term that he hasn't received a permit in 30 days, only if he owns the land, or whatever it is that's solved the property, for the longest 30 days. We went into the field and made them paperwork, so we helped them, I made all the papers in Bora, they didn't move, they didn't want to sign. I don't know if you know the case, you're from there, right? They come to me and they just sit in the hallway and say if you don't give us permission, we can't let the workers in. I send 20 engineers, lawyers, you make them papers, we type their papers, we fill them out, we draw, we sketches, we supplement them, we pray to them, just people, just let them turn on to make a license. For the highways here, I was making permits, people, walking terrain, leading entire teams, filming, measuring, leading the CIP, running the Institute of Roads to make paper, begging them. Guys, the World Bank won't let go of the money. We need to get a permit. One of the ministers I asked for. Please, I can't give you permission. You didn't apply. He says, "I'll see you these days, I don't have time." Then they call me, because you didn't give it to him. How am I supposed to give up when he didn't apply? So let's all get involved in this, help solve this if you want. If you don't, this law will pass and fail. There's going to be another one, similar, or the same one, something a little bit is going to change and it's going to be the same story. Let's figure it out once, if we want to go where we're going, we can't do it without certain documents. We can't get credit without paper, we can't justify the investments that are recorded in this country if we don't want to get involved. I'm at my disposal. You can say whatever you want, but I'm trying. If I could do all the permits and all the papers from Požega to Surcin with one small team, all the studies and get all the credit lines that existed, then I can do the other. Now for the Moravia Corridor in a month and a half, we've made documentation to cover certain papers, and we're doing everything right. We'll help everyone. I've been helping all the ministers who needed it, but they're just asking me for tomorrow. They ask permission when their inspection comes and they want to close their construction site and put red tape on them. Then they remember they need paper. That's the problem, and that's why I'm asking you to help here. It's easy to criticize. It's the easiest thing to say is that it's no good, but we have to change. We make laws and change laws, but we haven't changed. That clerk over there won't change, he won't change his geometry, he won't go out in the field. He says to me: I don't go out in the field, there's an agency, here's a card, so talk to them. They bring us the papers and then we move on. Then you go to the wife of the director who has the agency, and that's how this guy gives it to that guy, and that's how it works. Then the people are disappointed and they say, "Let me go, please, I don't know who to talk to anymore." It's an administration that won't accept any changes. That's our problem in Serbia, and that's a big problem. You can't change that counterworker, that's how he does it from the start to the day. Someone who has the strength to say tomorrow – go home and another will come and sit down, then we'll do something. Thank you very much, and I hope that we can speak correctly and do what we can, but as MPs, you have to influence your environment a little bit if we think we're going to do something. There's no party here that didn't have this problem, I don't see any party, you've all criticized and you've all been in trouble, and you're all going to be in trouble, whether you're at the bar, whether you're at the state level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23384	Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a regular break, and we'll be back to work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23385	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word is by MP Mirna Kosanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23386	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, the draft law that is before us today, namely before Parliament, should regulate the terms, procedures and manner of legalisation of buildings, i.e. parts of buildings built without a building permit, or approval for construction, and then arrange and obtaining, i.e. the issue of a used permit. The bill clearly defines for which buildings cannot be subsequently issued a building permit, therefore, objects that are excluded from the possibility of legalisation. In any event, the legislator's intensities in the making up of this proposal are certainly to translate illegal construction into a regime of rights of recognised relations, thereby increasing the market value of these facilities, then to establish legal equality in the obligations between persons who have built facilities without permission and persons who have done so in the ordinary procedure, to establish legal certainty in the transport of immovable property, to specify the rights and obligations of all participants in the procedure and of citizens and administration, and to increase revenues in the budgets of local self-government to build municipal infrastructure. The proposal for this law was, in all likelihood, based on the very wording of the proposal, the reason why, since the Law on Planning and Construction has already been concluded with regard to planning, construction land, construction and legalisation, the decision of the Constitutional Court of 2013 concluded that it is necessary to access the preparation of a specific law which will regulate the legalisation of objects, i.e. by means of a decision of the Constitutional Court, it is necessary to cease to apply the provisions of Articles 185 and 200. The law on planning and construction. At one point there was a legal vacuum, which should certainly be regulated by new provisions. The Constitutional Court found that the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, which had ceased to apply, established a special regime regarding the construction and use of an object which was different from the rules provided for in the construction regime, so that the intervention of the Constitutional Court had to avoid the parallelisation of the regimes of the achievement of the same right and certain benefits for certain groups of persons in relation to other groups of persons. In this respect, in order to create a basis for the exercise of citizens' rights, in order for the facilities built without authorisation to be returned to legal frameworks and to achieve the expected effects of the resolution of all applications submitted, legislative solutions are given in this proposal, in order to improve economic development and to establish property rights on the object which is subject to legalisation or part of the facility, as well as the right to continue to register that right in public books and in the necessary registers. At the same time, the existence of a legal vacuum created in the regulation of the area after the Constitutional Court of Serbia's decision was made. As regards the provisions of this law, a public debate has been held, which has proved to be very useful due to a large number of useful suggestions by the relevant representatives who participated in this debate, so that there is a solution that needs to be supported, at least as regards some solutions that are new and necessary. As well as any draft law which, in a sense, changes citizens' access to the exercise of their rights and objections relating to the possibility given to municipalities to determine for example. discounts in payment fees, we in the SDPS think it is very important to make sure that local self-governments do not discriminate on citizens in decision-making on the level of compensation and the giving of possible discounts, as well as when deciding on the possibility of paying a fee once or for the wars, as well as on payment deadlines, which are also decided locally, in the municipalities themselves. In the SDPS, we believe that this kind of fear should not exist for the reason that the law stipulates that compensation for the construction land is determined on the basis of criteria, which are the degree of municipal equipment, the annual programme for the regulation of construction land, urban areas, the purpose and the surface of buildings. For these reasons, there is not really much room for different interpretations and unequal criteria from the municipality to the municipality, and we hope that local self-government will solve the existing problem in this way, while at the same time increasing its revenues in the budget. Respecting the real situation, i.e. the existence of a large number of buildings built, as well as the need for their legalisation, and in order to end the existence of lawlessness, while respecting the need to translate something that is unlawfully based on the regime of legally regulated relations, it was assessed by the legislator that it would be more useful to introduce a legalisation institute instead of sanctions, i.e. removing the destruction of an object. In this way, by applying the proposed law, the actual state of building of the facilities would be maintained, with all construction obligations being fulfilled, with regard to the burdens of each investor, which relate to legal construction. Starting with the provisions of Article 1. The Constitution establishing the foundation of the legal system of the Republic of Serbia on the rule of law and social justice, we believe in the SDPS that the proposed provisions would ensure constitutional guarantees of legal equality and to prohibit discrimination covered by the Constitution, as well as provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as Protocol 12 to the European Convention. We of the SDPS believe that the bill on legalisation should be supported in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23387	The word has been made by MP Dejan Rajcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23388	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, is ahead of us as the first item of this first session in the autumn part of the work of the National Assembly of Serbia just one construction law. I think it's a good symbolism with which we open a regular autumn session of the National Assembly. The topic ahead of us is a topic that has been plagued by Serbian citizens for several decades. The first attempt to resolve the issue of illegal construction dates back nearly two decades. Meanwhile, several attempts and several laws have attempted to define the area, system arrangements and make it sustainable, to prevent and stop further wild construction, illegal construction, construction of buildings without the necessary documentation defined by the law in the area of construction and construction. On the other hand, as far as we can see, two decades later, it seems to me that now after two decades on the threshold that for the first time we get one concrete, sustainable system law that will provide answers and solutions to all the neural situations that citizens have been going through over the past decades and in some way have been forced to build objects without prior documentation. Just for a moment, let me point out what may have caused the present wild construction, which was obviously very present in the Republic of Serbia. In the first place, problems are related to the unscheduled work of local administrations, which were responsible for the adoption of urban planning acts, to enable and create preconditions for obtaining a building permit. On the other hand, the fact is that there were also obvious situations that, even where urban-planish acts may have existed, conditions for obtaining a building permit, investors themselves fled from obtaining them, therefore knowingly entering the building problem without building approval and thus directly damaged the entire social community and the state, at the end of the line. This law treats how a few months ago, by adopting the Law on the admission of property rights to illegally built buildings, we had the opportunity to hear, there are about 1,300,000 of what housing, what residential-business, what business facilities, or other types of buildings in the area of low-building. As we heard it ourselves earlier in the discussion of the Minister and the state itself has often built without issuing a building permit and not small buildings. They were capital facilities, they were hydrothermia, they were highways. I am well aware that certain hydropower and large capital facilities have been granted a building permit, it seems to me about 2005, 2006 or 2007, in that subsequent procedure, again in the period when Mr Ilic was also then the same minister of construction. By adopting this law, and later on, I'm going to make a little more specific about some parts of that law, to look back at them, what does the state of Serbia get? It is believed that some economists have calculated that in illegally built buildings there are unrecorded, unregistered and illegal about five to six billion euros. Through this law, by legalising these same facilities, the economic and credit potential of this country is simply rising for the same amount of money. In New Serbia, we believe that this law is, in the right sense, a development law that will allow its adoption to trigger economic, or investment activities. The entire mechanism will be launched and a series of accompanying industries, activities, which will be in the function of construction. Finally, since this law applies and is most enjoyed by citizens, and these are about a million citizens, 1,300,000 who built their buildings without building approval. These citizens, what structure is that? Most of the work was done by workers who had paid contributions to solid housing during their entire working century and who had done it for about 30, 40 years, and had never received any apartment from the Solidarity Fund, or solidarity housing as it was then called, through the SIZs as it was organized and even less since the early 1990s, at the time of the purchase of these apartments were able to buy them out. Of course, they couldn't buy them out, as another number did, another group of people. We remember that some of the apartments were purchased during that period and for the maltenes some two boxing cigarettes of order the size of money. By adopting this law, we believe in New Serbia that they are finally putting themselves in the same plane and creating preconditions for a new beginning, the equality of all citizens and that from the time of adoption of this law, no longer, nor can nor tolerate wild construction that apparently took place all the time during the previous decades in front of our eyes, and when I say to ours, I think of the responsible authorities, the inspection bodies that are in local self-governments, because, let's remind ourselves, this has been passed over to local self-governments. The inspection bodies were silent and blind all the time to what was happening in front of their eyes, and not to say that it was all a very significant source of corruption at the time, because local powerful men, protecting such types of investors who were building further sales facilities, were directly placed in some streams that were definitely on the other side of the law and which can be treated also by some other criminal laws, except for only criminal acts that arise from construction without issuing a building permit. We have, and it is not a rare case, that even the commissions to issue a valid permit, so for the technical reception of objects and the issue of the use of the permit, issued solutions on the approval, or the use of permits of individual housing facilities that did not have any connection to the infrastructure. Not on the water, not on the sewers, even less on the elitist power supply. Then who put up with it most? Of course, customers suffered, cheated citizens who were buying an apartment in a building that was issued a useful permit, after moving in found that they actually bought only bare walls, without basic and elemental living conditions in those apartments, or in that building as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly refer to the provisions of this law. In addition to what we've all had the opportunity to read in the bill that's been delivered to us, I wouldn't look back on it, but I have to point out that since more negative comments have been heard in previous discussions, not to say criticism of the amount of compensation, etc., I have to say that this law from this legal level is just certain criteria on the basis of which the compensation for the urban construction land can be calculated. The cost of the cost of the fee is determined by the criteria for determining the value of the compensation determined by each local self-government itself and it cannot possibly be the subject of criticism of this law, but all such critical thinking must be addressed to the addresses of our local president, the president of local self-government and mayors, who are in the jurisdiction to determine the cost of costing this thing. On the other hand, we all know, and this has been heard several times during the discussion so far that this law has been laid down as a special law under the current Law on Planning and Construction by order, namely by the Constitutional Court of RS, which entered into legal fact and legal force in early June of this year. This law must in a special way cover the issue of these types of objects, these 1,300,000 objects, respecting all arguments presented in the position of the Constitutional Court of RS. Compared to the previous solutions of the Law on Planning and Construction which were the subject of the Constitutional Court's examination, respecting everything that the Constitutional Court has said, here in this legislative proposal the conditions have been formulated through all these members, and I would point out that it begins with Article 13, which defines which type of documentation is required for the legalisation process, it is identical to that type of documentation that is collected for obtaining a building permit in a regular procedure, and there is only a classification in relation to the types of objects that are the size of the gross building area up to 300 squares and over 300 squares. For these larger ones, a slightly more complex documentation is needed, such as the Niveman Plan, the cadastra-topographic plan. All of this is nothing complicated and unknown to both our designers and our administration bodies dealing with the issue of building permits. Investors will be very easy to manage. The specific regulation or rules adopted by the minister would define the type and content of the design technical documentation required to be developed for the object which constitutes the subject of legalisation, i.e. obtaining a building permit in the legalisation process. I've already said who's in charge of the level of compensation, so once again that the citizens know, it's a question of local authorities, local congregations and local executive authorities, which will determine the amount of compensation. In this regard, I call on all committees of all local self-government to have a slightly different view and attitude in determining the level of compensation according to the facilities which represent the subject of legalisation, i.e. obtaining a building permit through the legalisation process, and the relationship when setting the criteria for the level of compensation, and which leaves the law here, through its provisions, that the level of compensation can definitely be reduced by the level of investment that citizens had during the construction process, as investments, in the preparation of the location. So, in bringing municipal infrastructure to its locations, that is, their pay. This law defines the obligation for all facilities in the legalisation process, and to remind ourselves, these are all objects built by 11 September 2009, whose applications were submitted by 10 March 2010, to issue temporary connections to the infrastructure until the legalisation process is completed. After the adoption of a municipal judicial solution, i.e. the city authority of the administration, which decides whether or not it is possible to legalise the object in question, the infrastructure connection remains and, if negatively so, after the adoption of the solution and rejects the possibility of legalisation of such an object, the Authority shall inform the company which issued the connection to the infrastructure that it is not possible to legalise and after that connection must definitely be abolished. Let me remind you, the objects that represent the subject of these legalizations, although each one for itself represents a special story, because each object is a special life story of every family that built its own facility, but one common line that must be most certainly through this 1,300,000 object set tells us that these objects, once again I note, worked and built people, families who were forced to solve their family housing issues and who serve only for the purpose of their own personal, family housing. These people, these families, these citizens of ours will definitely benefit and benefit through this law. There is no objection made in a recent discussion, in the morning work, that citizens who had previously received a building permit, whether through a regular procedure or through a legalisation procedure that was in force until 6 June of this year, when it ceased to apply and entered into force, find the opinion of the Constitutional Court in an unequal position in relation to those who are now beginning the legalisation procedure, or are obliged to end it under the current law, for those who did not do so by June 6th. This whole inequality story doesn't stand. It is the result of the Constitutional Court's decision and is by no means the product of anyone's personal whim or the desire to make life complicated, but simply the Constitutional Court said that what was done earlier was the cause of legal, constitutional inequality of citizens in this country before the authorities of this country. Just by respecting the Constitutional Court Decision, and we are all obliged to respect it, both as citizens and natural persons, as well as state institutions, we today have this draft law on legalisation in front of us, which together with the one brought before us in March of the month, I repeat again, the Law on the registration of property rights on profits built without a building permit, will surely solve the decades-old nightmare that many families have had, because so far they have not been able to define and declare themselves as owners and owners of property or property rights over these facilities. These families have lived subordinately for decades, as second-class citizens, because as you said, it seems to me, counterpart Petar Petrovic, in a formal and legal sense, their facilities, as soon as they are not recorded in the list of immovableities, or in the catastrophe of the Republic Geodetic Institute, did not exist, and we know that life tells us otherwise. Now is the time for life and the right to agree and, from this moment on, to go hand in hand together in the interest of all citizens, not to keep it in a collegiation. Again, I say, citizens live for decades under stress and in the impression of an inequality, uncertainty about what will happen tomorrow and security for their family and the future of their family. I'd like to invite all MPs to support this bill. This law is at least in the domain of some political ones, not to say political, relations and relations. I mean, if we wish well to the citizens of this country, that this law provides for a start, that these some million citizens resolve their basic human right, and that is the right to property and to protect their property and New Serbia will certainly be able to support this proposal in a warm way. Once again, I call on all other parliamentary groups to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23389	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23390	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Liberal-Democratic Party advocates the legalisation of illegally built objects and we will support any kind of effort that goes towards solving this huge problem in the area of illegally built objects. However, Mr. Minister, by reading the bill and listening to your defence of this law, we are of the opinion that we cannot support this bill, we cannot vote for this law, because we believe that this law will not really solve the issue of major legal chaos and major building chaos in this area of construction and urbanism. So, Mr. Minister, the only way to get out of all of this with dignity is to withdraw the law from the procedure and start from the beginning to write the law by really finding experts, professional public, units of local self-government, as well as citizens, builders of these objects that are not legalized. You need to record this situation from every angle, so you can go to this assembly with a new bill, and give much clearer reasons for the law on legalisation than these reasons that you have stated in the law. For these reasons, and for all that you have said here today, this bill is primarily unserious, and it is unserious because, Mr. Minister, it is inconclusive. This law is inconclusive because you obviously don't understand what the real goal is for all illegally built objects to be introduced into legal flows. You do not understand the importance of legal certainty and do not understand the extent to which you threaten the legal order with this kind of bill. Mr. Minister, I fully understand that you were in some time frame and that you simply had to react to that Constitutional Court decision that stood for about six months in the drawer, so that you would sort of consolidate, and then go out with some half solution – what to do with so far unlegalised and existing facilities in Serbia. So that legal void had to be filled in, in your opinion. I tell you, she didn't have to. It's better if you didn't hand anything over to Parliament, to discuss it like the Law on Legalization, than you did this. Mr. Minister, this law has such serious shortcomings that we can very easily name and list. First of all, you have incorporated certain limiting factors into the law. So this law will have limited range. What, then, Mr. Minister, is the legalization of illegally built objects in the first place, if you start to prevent at least trying to fully legalize all objects? You, Mr. Minister, spoke of the existence of a million and 300 thousand illegally built objects. That's a huge number, Mr. Minister. Under the previous law, i.e. the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, therefore, the Law on Legalisation was not put out of force, as you thought, but in fact only one part of the Law on Planning and Construction was put out of force and those provisions concerning legalisation, from 185 to 200. So, Mr. Minister, these provisions clearly indicate that the buildings were built by September 2009, with legalisation requirements submitted by March 2010. Since it has already been three, four years, Mr. Minister, what will happen to those facilities whose owners have built new facilities since September 2009, what will happen to those legalisation facilities that they have submitted, or have not submitted until March 2010? What will happen to all those requirements that will in some way not satisfy these conditions and criteria that are needed to meet, in order to legalise the facility by the competent authorities? What happens to at least 600, 700 thousand objects? Because that's what this fast-moving calculation is about, and most likely that out of those 700 thousand demands that have been filed, there won't be a valid 50%. What does that mean? There's 300 grand left over here, and there's about 600 thousand more that, according to your million and 300 thousand bill, so you're going to have over 600, 700 thousand, you're going to have almost a million objects that will remain out of legal circulation. Mr. Minister, you've proposed a pretty serious repression to this law, demolition. I agree. If you're illegalizing something, if you're doing something, building without permission, that's the consequence. But, Mr. Minister, I simply can't believe this government, that this government is going to resort to this kind of problem solving, to destroy a million illegally built objects, which is because they didn't apply, which is because they were building in the meantime, which is because their demands don't comply with this law that will soon come into force. So, you're going to make a million objects where families live, how many million direct users and interested persons are going to jeopardize you with this law? I believe, Mr. Minister, that you are not particularly interested in this matter. I believe you're in favour of the law being passed without any criticism, no control, no suggestion whatsoever that would actually direct your entire enterprise in an age of direction. But, Mr. Minister, the opposition is now playing a role in criticizing and controlling you. It is our right and our obligation to the citizens of Serbia. This bill will lead to a situation that, or you'll apply it, and it'll be tardy, and then you'll tear down everything big, or you won't apply it, which I believe is more likely, because you won't dare. This demagogue, populist quality of government just points to that kind of possibility. So you won't apply it, because if you don't respect the provisions of the law you're making, what does that mean? That means it was completely pointless to even discuss him. So, in law itself, you build on that quality of debauchery. What's it gonna be, Mr. Minister, say, if you're really going to apply the provisions of the law? For example, a unit of local self-government that will also have to bear the burden of destroying illegally built objects, as well as a republic that has singled out 10 million dinars and, behold, absurdity, and it is an lawless builder, so what will that unit of local self-government do? It will tear down the facility, tear down that property it draws funds from to fund local self-government units. So, no more paying taxes on property, if you've knocked down that object that's been illegally built, which is listed in the real estate catalogue, Mr. Minister, and you've told people -- just type those properties, 100 euros will cost you legalization, everything's in order, you've got no problem, you just can't get into traffic with those properties. So all those who have listened to you and who have entered these illegally built objects, they have now actually become transparencys, they have become visible to the system, they have actually entered the system. Will they be able to respond to all the requests the system will make for them, that's a big question. If they can't answer how you propose it with the law, then the situation will happen, that it, even local self-government, will come into a conflict of interest situation, because it destroys the object on which the property tax was paid. That's the problem with this law, because you haven't clearly defined what you want with this law. Do you, with this law, want to put order into construction and urbanism? Do you want to introduce tax discipline with this law? Do you, with this law, want to introduce legal certainty? Do you, with this law at all, want to achieve all these goals, regardless of the price that will cost you by implementing these goals? Mr. Minister, you will also have a political price for law enforcement and for law enforcement. If you implement it, you will have serious problems with at least a million to two million citizens of this country. If you don't implement it, it's a fog sale, Mr. Minister. The whole law, the concept of this law, points to the inconclusiveness and lack of will to actually implement this law. Mr. Minister, you're allowing units of local self-government to sort of reduce this legalisation costs, i.e. paying compensation for the construction land. You leave the possibility, but you don't guarantee they'll do it. So these units of local self-government are already largely threatened in financial terms and already have major problems with their budgets, even this way, if you put them at risk. Indeed, do you believe that they will listen to your recommendation, your human recommendation, all in the interest of the citizens of this country? So it's not a commitment, it's just one option. Mr. Minister, how much is it going to cost the citizens who own illegally built objects this whole legalization process? You under this law have much more serious project documentation that needs to be attached. You've got a lot of taxes here, Mr. Minister. You here have this compensation for the construction land. What's it gonna cost each individual, 10, 50, 100, 500 thousand dinars? We don't see it from this bill of law. You were simply under the obligation to attach, in addition to this bill, the intentional sublegal acts with which you intend to implement the law. Without it, we simply do not understand how any provision of the law will be implemented. The law has 40 members. We LDP MPs have submitted 32 amendments. We really don't have the illusion that you're going to adopt those 32 amendments, we don't believe. Without the adoption of these amendments, I guarantee you will have a serious problem with this law. It's simple, this law is controversial, Mr. Minister. You are calling for justice here, as it is wrong that all those who have illegally built now enjoy certain privileges by being well freed from paying some of the costs paid by the citizens who have legally built. I agree with you that there is a certain problem with whether it is fair. But, Mr. Minister, what is it in Serbia justly? You had a situation where citizens were buying apartments for one mark, for 10 marks, for 100 marks, and they were really worth far more, at 10, 20 or 50 thousand marks. Now you expect this serious problem, this whole area of illegally built objects, to be solved by introducing a element of justice, morality, etc., and by referring to the Constitution. Mr. Minister, I see a little bit of hypocrisy here. So, if we consider all this, I'd like to ask you a question. Did you actually intend to reach one silent agreement, one consensus with non-taxables? Did you actually have any intention of just taking a little bit of money quickly, patching up some holes in the budget and then letting this problem get buried again, laying down and finally, in fact, getting into a situation so we don't even know how to solve it anymore? Because if you have reached that consensus with tax collectors, and I think we have good indications for that, in that case, think carefully about what that law on enrollment in the catalogue of immobilization of immobilized objects, which serves this repressive law that provides for the destruction of these objects, for which you guarantee that they will be maximumly protected. Are you, in this way, trying to regulate at least in some way bringing order to all those citizens who have so far avoided paying taxes? It seems to me that we can't get any positive answers to all these questions I've asked you, because neither in the text of the bill nor in your defense law do we see at least a sign of some sort of seriousness. There is no more time for easy understanding of problem solving, for not defining the reasons for problems, and for this problem is also the state and how responsible it was, as these objects were being built, which did nothing. Do you, Mr. Minister, really intend to stand up in this House and say, yes, this bill is the best possible law that we can propose to you, which we intend to introduce order into wild construction, in a building that has been kidnapped? Is that Serbia's modernisation? Are those the reforms, Mr. Minister? These are the questions I really expect an answer to, and I doubt I'll get a relevant answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23391	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Master Mladjan Dinkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23392	Dear fellow MPs, the United Regions of Serbia, unfortunately cannot support this bill, although we want to be a constructive opposition, which means that we will not be able to vote for anything good for the citizens of Serbia that comes from the government. I'll tell you why. First of all, Mr. Ilic, I think you should come here today with a complete set of building chaos resolutions, headed by the Prime Minister, because you know that legalization is just one small segment of the problem you've encountered, you haven't made it, I want to be completely objective, which is being challenged by the Law on Planning and Construction. I know you're preparing that law. However, the point is that by adopting individual, partial laws, one by one, without a complete system solution and guillotine regulations in the area of construction, there is no way to fix the conditions. In fact, construction today is the image of bureaucracy in Serbia and the image of an inefficient state administration. You didn't create it. It's been piling up for years. The biggest chaos was made in 2009 with the Law on Planning and Construction. Data are completely large and undefined powers for various public enterprises, from the Republic to the locals, that everyone can do whatever they want, that there are no deadlines in which procedures can and must be completed, and all this led to the World Bank's position last year being 175th of the 183th country for efficiency in issuing construction permits. One Chile in the 1990s, and if Serbia can't be at least in the middle of that world list, then I really don't know what's possible. One Chile in the 1990s, for example. It takes 124 days and 20 times less money to issue a building permit there than in Serbia. In Serbia, the procedure takes an average of 279 days, a total of 50 procedures must be carried out on 20 different counters. That's not all because what's absurd, an investor who wants to build something in Serbia can get into a situation that even three times has to go to the same counter with a single publisher of some permits and consent. I want you to answer us here – in whose interest is this complication, and who is the one who devises these laws and sublegal acts, that people are harassed in front of counters, that investors can't build without citizens ever knowing whether they'll be able to put their object in the cadastre, and that they have to pay for it, to bribe them so that they can eventually sell that facility tomorrow. What are those brains that come up with such complicated procedures? Where did this bureaucracy come from? I'm sure you're against it, too, but I'm interested in who these people are, who are lobbys that make such complicated laws. Then one law on legalization, can it change anything? He can't do anything, and even as you've done, he has a number of shortcomings, and the URS parliamentary groups have filed 10 amendments to try and fix it too. You know very well, Mr. Ilic, and he also knows Prime Minister Dacic, this is today a pattern of what it looks like to approve a building permit in Serbia. God's father can't handle this. So, 279 days, and you have the first stage of preparation where you don't know what all the planning documents should be made. Local self-government, municipalities and cities are struggling because there is so-called inflation, too many of these planning documents, and nobody really knows what to do, and then some state-run republican body tells him -- if you don't have that act, which local self-government doesn't know how to make it or has the money to do it right, then you can't build it. Why don't you pretend that people don't have to apply for these acts at all with the state authorities? Why wouldn't it be an electronic building permit? Whether the Macedonians who introduced the electronic issue of a building permit is so much better than we are in Serbia, that it went hand in hand, and we cannot or do not want to do so in Serbia. One of the parties here advocated a quick response counter campaign. Serbia doesn't need a window for quick answers, it needs a window for fast solutions. So, problems need solving, not just talking about them. What are the consequences of this situation? If you look at the developments in the Serbian economy in the first eight months of this year we have great results in the automotive industry, a growth of 227% in the first eight months. Great result in the software industry, 17% growth. Agriculture has 22% growth, oil industry 42%, pharmaceutical industry 36%, but construction is down 40%. This year Serbia will grow 2% of GDP. If construction had remained at least at the level of last year, therefore, if it had been zero growth, and last year was also catastrophic for construction, Serbia would have had twice as much GDP growth, it would not have been 2% but 4% a year and would have 700m euros more GDP. Is it possible that Serbia has faster growth in construction, therefore, that there is no 40% drop like this but at least to zero, if we have such complicated bureaucratic procedures. I don't think that's possible. I repeat, you're only responsible for one segment here in the government, which is construction. Same situation in traffic. So construction and traffic make up in a broader sense a complex of construction with one building and another a low construction. Equal criticism applies to both sectors. Given that these complicated procedures are also intruding into resolutions that are not in your jurisdiction at all because these are also asked about "Serbian Roads" which are not under your jurisdiction and "Serbia" which are not under your jurisdiction and public utility for water, sewerage, district heating, the Serbian Emergency Sector, the Republic Institute for the Protection of Cultural Monuments, these are all the institutions that have been given the authority today to decide whether they will get or will not get a permit to build. Then I go back to the beginning, this law of yours is a drop in a sea of problems, it doesn't solve anything, and you should have invited Prime Minister Dacic and told him – masters, if we want to solve a particular problem in Serbia, let's do a package of laws and change, not only, this law on legalisation that needs to be changed, but also include other accompanying laws such as the Law on State Crossover and Cataster, the Law on Energy, the Roads, the Railways, the Waters, the Protection of the Natural Environment. Now you can tell what this has to do with all these laws. But remember, in this same parliament when I was the finance minister exactly one year ago, the first law I proposed here was the Law on the abolition of parafiscal duties. Those duties were from different sectors, so we changed thirty-something laws. That's what the Serbian government needs to do. Here to make one guillotine of regulations, to come to Parliament's session, and to settle once and for all the chaos that exists in the bureaucracy of construction. If Serbia can be among the 20 countries in the world at the speed of company registration and our APR has great recognition of all international, world institutions. If we could make a move in some other areas, why be 185 in this area? I say again because I know how complicated this is, here are the people who run the ministries before you, and probably since it's been more than a year, let bureaucracy and administration lead the main word, and not you to cut and say, I don't want to listen to you, what's going to happen in this legalization bill of yours now, so you know that you have two more papers than in the previous one? Why? Why couldn't you solve it with the same number of forms? Because no one wants to resent the administration. The administration laughed at you and me when I was a minister. They say we're green, and you're October. Indeed, the ministers are changing, while bureaucracy and complicated procedures remain. I think you should take matters into your own hands and if there is a political will, and I hear it from Mr. Dacic and Vukic, and you also want to remember that procedure, do it humanly, at least you know how to do it and come to this Parliament with a complex package that will solve these problems. That's why we don't want to take part in the vote on a single segment, this isn't even twenty problems with this law that you've passed here. We will vote against him, and if you adopt the amendments will be good, but I note, even if you adopt the amendments to the URS and improve the law, it won't be enough because it won't solve the problem. What they're all up against is a particular law, you should have read the Alliance's local development analysis, they have questions and I already told you, you have more forms than you had. There are very confusing provisions on deadlines for supplementing already submitted applications. Let's just say, what a bureaucratic brain he's up to. I know you probably didn't come up with this, it's just that the minister can't write the law, but you're looking at your associates, but those same associates have been writing laws for the past 20 years, and they are who they are. So you shouldn't let them write it, you should let someone on the side write it. Replay even one Macedonia's experience. We talked, you were in a meeting with their vice president who came from the World Bank, they did it the right way and in Macedonia, unlike other countries in the region, even under the conditions of the construction crisis is growing. You know it's not all about money. You can't build without money, but when you have money, you can't build it, if it takes a hundred papers or counters to get something done. In Article 21(3) of the Law, the law states that the applications have already been completed: “If all the evidence prescribed by this law is not submitted, the competent authority shall request that the documentation be completed within a period of no longer than one year from the date of entry into force of this law.” When a man reads this, he would say he has a deadline, but here the law does not set any time limit for the competent authorities until they are obliged to require applicants to deliver that notice. Theoretically, they can never deliver it. Then how will this guy even know when he's running that deadline? So, a hole in the law. Correctly, my LDP colleague criticised that you had transferred to local self-government the possibility that they would approve of discounts, and previously the Constitutional Court had just annulled this law because it was unconstitutional for one citizen to have the right under one condition to build and the other under quite another. Now, you want to bring local self-government into violation of the Constitution. Why didn't you set the same parameters for everyone? Some boundaries from-to, so people know what they can and can't do. It's not fair to transfer any blame to local self-government now. Unlike the other chiefs of Parliament clubs, I won't be using much time, because I don't think I should be paying attention longer than I need to be. I think you've all realized that this problem cannot be solved by this law. The problem is, we still don't know if there's any political will in the other Prime Ministers to get rid of this or not? If you come to this parliament by the New Year, with a complete proposal for all amendments to the laws and regulations that red tape red tape in construction, then I promise you, the U.S.S. will support one such law. This one here we can't, but I know you're pretty wrong about why construction goes down like this. Believe me, I don't know how much extra money to provide, even in this poverty, it won't be built if all these public enterprises have to wonder and give them the authority to approve building permits. If it is made that there are no such long procedures, that instead of those 50 steps has three to five steps, I understand that there must be some rule, then people will build themselves. And the state of all that it builds will be good for the development of construction. So it turns out that it's not enough that "Fiat" and 150 car companies are pulling industry, that it's not enough that agriculture has given birth well and we have 22% growth, there goes construction 40% lower, and we're now on one growth that's very modest, and it could be respectable. Let me just say that it's down to 40% compared to last year, and last year it's much lower than the first crisis year of 2009. Remember how few people from the construction industry complained about how little they built last year. And this year, 40% less than last year. Even if it remained on the same level, Serbia would have twice as high economic growth. So I'm asking you to take this all on purpose, not personally. If Prime Minister Dacic were here, I'd like to tell him this. The position here must be taken whether Serbia wants to continue to cultivate red tape in construction, at all levels, or whether it wants to eradicate it once and for all. If it is a desire to eradicate it, you yourself have said that there are institutions that have worked on it and you have that wish, but then come to parliament, give us a comprehensive law, a comprehensive cut of regulations, and you will have the support of the URS. Now, for this law of yours that isn't good itself, and plus it doesn't solve any more serious problem, it's pure sugar water, the U.S.S. can't vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23393	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23394	I'm very sorry that you're here discussing a problem that is being solved these days, which is the law on planning and building. The law on planning and construction and legalization is two things. Legalization can't encourage anything and run in construction. Legalisation means that something is legalized, which is necessary to be done quickly, because the Constitutional Court annulled the law from the previous government. The law on planning and construction is preparing to come to parliament. All this stuff that you, Mr. Dinkic, are now saying, this law foresees. There is one broader consensus and there have been many institutions, many have joined and it has been prepared. But I can't accept one fact that it keeps repeating the growth of the automotive industry and the fall of construction. Where's the construction crash? How many unemployed carpenters are there in Serbia? How many unemployed armymen are there? How many unemployed builders are there? Why is working on black? Well, that's what you're supposed to say, not me. Do you know that currently in Serbia there are about two billion investments in construction and travel industry? You know why? Because in the budget you didn't provide for the funds to start these processes. Contracts have been made, people have come to work, but we don't have our percentage to pay for the work to start. We don't have any projects done. There are no such means. Here, the Chinese are waiting for the Ljig-Obrenovac to work. How do they work when we don't have 10%? You didn't see that coming in the budget. Don't say no projects have been done. The projects have been done. The state audit committees have done their job. The contracts are signed. Everything's ready. But we don't have 10%. And you knew that loan would come. We don't have an advance in Railways. We don't have an advance in many projects. How do we do that? They won't accept banks. Mr. Dinkic, you have made great investments, both in Kragujevac and in many places. Everything you've done - you've done without a building permit. You know very well that I gave you permission in seven days, in ten days, in 15 days. But you did all the projects without permission. In Bor, you worked 300m euros without a building permit. Then we covered it up for you somehow. Right? In Kragujevac, trafo stations, halls, roofs, changes, access stations, highways, everything is without permission. You didn't even know you had to apply for a building permit. It was a total anarchy. What can I do when a minister of mine works without permission? Should I file a criminal report and sit together in the government? The ski resorts, so I don't talk. About the old mountain too, not to open that topic. Have you been waiting for a building permit for over a month? You're not anywhere. The minister responsible for this has done it to you as soon as possible, without any grounds and covered any investment. And instead of being grateful, you're calling me now because I didn't do it. It's true and you're right there's red tape. It is true that in a city where there is no army, you must seek consent from the army for every object. There's no barracks, no soldiers. But that's all that's left. I asked them to change that, but they won't be in charge. It's true that in the water industry you get a package and you need to cut down that bureaucracy that's been used to wondering for years. And you can't stop it, because it's a matter of all institutions. Every game was in the government and everyone had the same problem. You know what our accident is? Which everyone likes for something to ask themselves. Now that you're going to issue a permit, you have to ask EPS, NIS, the Army, the police, and now these for emergency situations, and these, and those, and all of them to name them and, of course, while you ask them all... For example, I've been waiting in one ministry for three months to get an answer, and they're not wondering about it, but three months can't answer me and they're always telling me here tomorrow, tomorrow, tomorrow, and no way. That's why I asked for government support, and he's got the license now, to get on one counter within 30 days and that's true. You're not going to pick up any more... You know exactly how many industrial zones you've worked. So if the industrial zone got all the papers for that location, why now every company in the industrial zone has to take out the same papers? It's too high and I agree with you completely, that this should be brought into order and break up with this practice that's been going on for years. That's why I started, when I was talking, you weren't there, said there had to be one bigger deal, to get out of this story. We have problems, it's true, because everyone likes to wonder. I had a problem here with the only law and one party, who loves to discuss, asked to install the amendment, conditioned and blackmailed, which once again stops the whole thing. Why is it stopping? You have to ask your neighbor to give you consent to build a shelter, or a company, or something else, or a freezer or anything. Well, the neighbor won't ever give it to you while he's alive. So what do you do now? Nothing. I kicked that out of the law, and you kept asking for it to come back, as one lady here said - all citizens must wonder. All illegals, one million and three hundred of them, to ask everyone what suits you, you want lemons, take you to lunch, file a request? What do you want us to do, buy you a suit, maybe change a tie, take you to dinner, make a request? That's what's allowed in this country, that everyone wonders, and that's why we come here where we come from. Just tell me which neighbor's gonna sign her neighbor's permission card, for example. For a pig farm or for a hero? That's why we don't have any more farms in Serbia, they're all closed. Why? No one's gonna sign it. Everything that's been built has been put out of force, because you have the inability to register it. So as we ask everyone, we ask the local community, and then they go to a public debate, and then we ask associations all kinds of questions, we ask, we ask, we ask, we can never finish. So there are some stories. There's a discussion, there's a criticism that the administration... This is where the laws change, not the administration. I agree with you, Dinkic, as a MP and as a longtime minister, you know it well. We haven't changed the administration, and it's not worth it. Until we change the one on the counter, we can't apply the law. Why? He works according to his law. He's got his own rules and his own dot. He doesn't care and he doesn't read the law. Yesterday I debated with a representative of the municipality for a very long time and the man did not read the law at all. I tell him what you're looking for is right, and he says, "Where does it say?" He says, well, in law, take a look. He didn't even read the law, and he came to make remarks and ask for it. But it'll be better, I hope after this law. I agree that it's a key law on planning and building, we'll come here, but you have to solve the work on black. I was recently in Belarus. Do you know how many of us we have on the Russian market for our black workers? Maybe five grand. You know how much we have in Emirates, in other countries, in Qatar, etc.? Thousands. Everybody's working on black. They're sitting in a company that's failed, and they're being paid a pension, social, and they're being led to work, and they're not. I repeat, we now need for these projects that are under way thousands of carpenters, army and builders, concreteists, butter, and we don't have them. Do you know that we can't find five supervisory authorities for half a year? They're gone. Bring one, if there is one. There aren't any. Do you know that surveillance is run by strangers on certain facilities? I don't have any engineers. They're all managers. Everybody's finishing some schools, and no one wants to graduate from technical school. Is there a reconstruction of the thermal power plant? Do you know how to get a useful license and make it if you need 30 waists, from electric engineers, engineers, builders, architects, and we don't have them? We don't have people. We have this little college thing that we're pulling, these professors, and we don't have a fit, and that's a big problem for Serbia. That's why we asked to allocate funds to retrain workers. Today, unfortunately, we don't have people for these occupations. Do you know how many in one school, which had 1,000 students of construction waists, have now been enrolled? Ten students. Do you know what the average age of a construction worker is? The average is 58 years old. What do you do with them? They've all brought confidence that they have high pressure and that they can't go to heights, they can't go to the stage, they can't go to the crane. What am I supposed to do with them? You want me to open a debate club? Do you know you don't have a young man under 30 years of construction? Here, come to the corridor of the League and let's go to the Prelina together. You don't have a 26-28-year-old man. That's Serbia's problem, and we have to solve it. It's true, this problem is to solve, but all ministries must be involved, all ministers, and to prevent work on black, to hire people, to make maybe new firms, which we do now. Some companies have to go into history. There's only people left there before retirement and they're sitting there waiting for something. They're gone. Many were brought into bankruptcy through poor privatisation, which I didn't talk about here. The elite construction firms are through a catastrophicly bad... Please, Mr. Dinkic, you were a minister and you ran the privatisation. “Low construction – Cačak” is a great company. I personally brought over my connection to buy it by one of the best travel companies in Europe "Astrum", an Israeli firm. A man of criminal past appeared, who unfortunately bought it because he transferred several hundred thousand, sold it all out, brought it into bankruptcy and completely destroyed it. There's no mouse left there. I don't know where you found some Panto Market. He bought 36 companies in privatisation and now he's nowhere to be found, we're looking for him. Not to mention that an Indian came to Magnochrom and sold out everything. Not to mention someone who came to the paper factory in Chačka, sold out the machines all a kilo and disappeared. He told them, "All new machines are coming, only to sell these." He sold everything "The Irons of Smederevo", and then left without a return. Did you know that the workers, the bankruptcy managers of the elevators, cranes, cranes, machines sold at Radu, to secure their wages and to drive all the workers away? Bad privatisation in construction companies, especially in travel companies. I prayed on TV and begged – Miskovic, don't sell to the toll companies. I said, "Drop it, Miskovic, please, pull the handpiece, don't. I begged six companies not to buy one man no one in Serbia knew who he was or what he was. All six in bankruptcy today, all owners are in jail. Who do we work with? So, bad privatisation and that, gentlemen, is a big problem in construction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23395	The word is made by MP Mladjan Dinkic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23396	For starters, let me remind you that I've taken over the privatisation business since mid-2007, and until then all the privatisations of the less construction firms have been completed. What's more serious, so you're surprised you can't find the workers working on the building? When nothing is built if construction has fallen 40% it is normal that prices and wages for these people are low. Encourage construction through the abolition of bureaucracy, more demand for construction workers, higher wages, and you will see how young people will enroll for carpenters and army workers and everything else. They won't work for that salary. You wouldn't work for that salary either. He can't collapse construction if he's 40% lower production in construction than last year, it's normal that there's no need for those workers and then there's low wages. It's a little low wage. Increase activity and greater demand, and you will see how the wages will grow. The other thing is, it's not a problem in money, you know it well. You mentioned the project with China he was agreed only now this summer and it is logical that this 10% participation is secured in the budget for next year. I believe that's how it's gonna be done. The bigger problem is that in 2006, it costs 3.5 billion euros in Serbia to contract the most favourable loans with the World Bank and other institutions such as the European Investment Bank. All infrastructure, railways, roads, energy and 3.5 billion euros are not withdrawn, although all things agreed by Serbia have paid a penalty. Now you're talking to me about a new project from 2013. The problem is that even though you're moving away from the state, the private sector has been destimulated to build because through the upside-down laws of planning and construction that introduced that conversion, so no one can build on all normal locations now, so some catastrophic procedures have been introduced to tax the administration, and they've assessed and complained about various defences, etc., everything is stiff. I agree with you, EPS needs to ask about this, why Telekom? Come on, cut it out. That's what I'm up for.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23397	Please, Mr. Dinkich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23398	If the Egyptians could build those pyramids, and we can't trafo station because it's supposed to wait 279 days for licenses... I want it not to be a situation for the minister to call another minister, but for us to have a system.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23399	The word has been given to the People's MP, Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23400	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and dear viewers, I will return to the subject of legalization. The draft law in front of the MPs seeks to settle a matter on which, since the Constitutional Court's decision to put an end to the provisions of Articles 185 to 200 of the current Law on Planning and Construction, the legalisation of objects has become a legal vacuum. However, the problem of illegal construction in this country has been present since the first day the building regulations were passed and has been expanding over time. Therefore, this is confirmed by the Constitutional Court itself, the sole and general interest, which requires that the state adopts a regulation that will allow the legalisation of such objects, but not in the way it was done by the provisions of the law that this court has put out of force, but in the way in which the owners, or holders of illegal objects, will be allowed to be legalised by the application of the necessary documents, evidence, construction projects and, most importantly, the reconciliation of the obligations on the basis of municipal equipment of the building land to avoid discrimination by legal builders. That is the direction of the proposed provisions of the law under discussion. In this respect, the Proposer is also defined for the adoption of a special law which, in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's position, should be a "lex specialis" as a kind of necessary evil, i.e. a derogation from the general rules. The proposal for a law therefore strengthens the conditions under which the legalisation of objects is allowed and extends the list of evidence, i.e. documents to be attached to the request. However, the proposed provisions contain one contradiction which may again be a source of discrimination, this time towards illegal builders. Namely, this congregation recently passed a Law on special conditions for enrolment of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. Article 10(1) of that Law provides that the owner of an illegal construction facility may, in accordance with the law in a special procedure, obtain a building permit or use a permit and after entering the right of ownership on an unlawfully built facility under the provisions of this Act. Article 13(1) of that Law provides that owners of illegally built buildings, i.e. parts of objects on which they have applied for legalisation of objects in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction do not have the obligation to submit a new request, but consider the application to be a request for the registration of property under this Act. In the position of the same member, owners of illegally built objects which have not applied for legalisation within the time limits prescribed by the Planning and Construction Act may submit a request in accordance with this law by 11.3.2010 at the latest, within one year of the date of entry into force of this law. Despite those provisions, the draft law on the legalisation of objects in Article 5 provides for the authorisation of all buildings built or reconstructed by 11.9.2009 for which a legalisation application was submitted by 11.3.2010. Therefore, a law governing only the question of the registration of property rights in the register of immovableities and rights over them gives the lawless builder the right to enter the right of property even though he did not apply for legalisation, while the bill regulates the question of subsequent issue of a building permit i.e. full legalisation of the facility does not give such a right. It can therefore be the situation that the lawless builder applied to the competent cadastrian property registration service to be entered in the property, and that because he did not apply for legalisation by 11.3.2010, he cannot legalise the property in the right sense of the word – that the request was rejected and that the facility was eventually destroyed, as provided for in Article 33. It's a bill of law. We have therefore intervened in this part of the amendment proposing to give the illegal constructions an additional period of one year from the date of entry into force of this law under which they can apply for legalisation, but only for those buildings that were built by 11.9.2009, which does not touch the essence of the proposed law. The minister isn't here. I'd like to ask him to pay special attention to this. This is a very important element that is important to us. As regards the compensation for construction land, its height, the criteria for determining the possible reduction of the same bill contain norms which are only instructive, and not the imperative character of what the provisions contained have been lifted by the Constitutional Court. This is because the proposer rightly stands at the point of view that the question of determining the compensation for the regulation of construction land so that in the domain of the units of local self-government, the incurring of the law would be a violation of the Constitution. Accordingly, the units of local self-government are only suggested in this direction that they should determine the amount of compensation, as well as in which direction they could establish the right to reduce the amount of compensation if the lawless builder, by building or buying an illegally built facility, has permanently resolved the issue to himself or members of his family. As a consequence of the refusal of legalisation requirements, the law provides for the destruction of objects, which should certainly be contained, because it is finally and definitely a sanction for non-compliance with the law on the approval of construction. However, as we believe that this measure should rather be an exception than a rule, we once again point to the need to extend the deadline for submitting applications. At the same time, the law provides for the authorisation and approval of municipal enterprises to be attached to an illegal facility for which legalisation has been applied for temporarily, until the end of the procedure, to be connected to the electricity, gas, water, sewerage, telecommunications and other networks, so that, in the event of refusal or rejection, those undertakings, on the notice of the building inspector, the facility must be excluded, i.e. to unmount the newly installed connections. We believe that this law is necessary and necessary, that the proposed provisions are good, with the highlighted objections and the proposed corrections, and therefore it is necessary to adopt it, in order to fill the gap, in order to continue the work to remove this decade-long problem. I'm sorry the minister isn't here. It is necessary in the adoption of such a law and its application. The executive authority depends on its application, especially by local authorities. Mr. Minister, it is necessary to take certain measures to implement the Law on Legalisation, as well as the Law on the Law on the Law of Property Registration, as these are largely one-time laws and are limited to time. Both laws solve an important problem that has accumulated and is decade-long in this country. Some locals are trying to avoid law enforcement in any way. When we passed the Law on the Law of Registration, seven days in one daily list, it turns out that such a law is decadent, and it is still presented by the current president of the Municipality of Chatin. In yesterday's newspaper, a daily newspaper, that I'm telling her who they are, the inscription "Arrest Velja Ilic because she proposes the law" came out. This is one very interesting and unseen so far. I am 64 years old, I haven't read anywhere to arrest someone, not in single-party systems, let alone in multi-party systems like ours and especially now that we're on the verge of starting negotiations with the EU. These local powers must once be put on the tail and it must be known whether it is an older state or whether they are older pastures in this Serbia. This country isn't big, it's not so rich, it's not poor enough to let the construction mob wave and do whatever it wants. Objects cannot be built anywhere in Serbia without authority, especially without local authorities. There's no way someone's building. Right now in Zlatibor, right now, five illegal objects are being built, here, now I've got a phone call, and Zlatibor, or Chajetina, has no construction inspector all season long. Now who's going to be guilty? Guilty Parliament and guilty minister, to be hanged or arrested. I ask you to insist on trying to solve this problem as quickly as possible and as correctly as possible. You know who's to blame here. Thank you. We will uphold this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23401	The word is made by Parliamentarian Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Ilic, in March of this year in this room you told us that there are 1,300,000 illegally built objects in Serbia and that we are the first in Europe. Unfortunately, this first place means that we are the worst in Europe, and it speaks enough about what our country is in. This problem dates back and the state has long tried to resolve the legalisation issue since 1997, and laws have been passed in 2003, 2005, 2009 and 2011. Each of them was supposed to simplify the procedure. Each was said to address the legalisation problem, to enable the creation of new economic operators, to create competition, to justify potential costs, and essentially, each of them only moved the time limits, or set a new deadline until this process was to be completed. The final result of all these laws, as you yourself said, was an increase in the number of illegally built buildings, because Mr. Minister, since 11 September 2009, when the Law on Planning and Construction was adopted here in the Assembly, it continued with illegal construction by individuals, by economic operators, but unfortunately, by the state itself. You said that a number of buildings were illegally built throughout Serbia, which are of capital value despite warnings from inspection services. You said the government was building individual buildings without any paper, without permission, without review committees, without the studies necessary for such a thing. We think it's scary and it's inadmissible. Of course it should get in the way. Because of the bad 2009 Planning and Construction Act, which we as the DSS and then criticised and pointed to all its shortcomings, the Constitutional Court also reacted. For months, Serbian citizens have been unable to enter their facilities in the immovableity cadastre. The law on special conditions for enrolment of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, which this assembly adopted in March, I don't think anyone has any. Europe does not know this kind of legal regulation, because it turns out that its essence is actually the registration of property rights on land. And then we said that this law would not solve problems, that it was filled with legal gaps and ambiguous provisions that regulate the registration of property rights on building land, and even enrollment of buildings located on the surfaces of public purposes, which is inadmissible. We also pointed out that the owners of both land and buildings in certain cases will become those who do not have the right to do so. The law must not, the state must not, the rule of one country should not allow the right of property to be entered on foreign soil without a single paper. I really don't know if the purpose of this law was to take money from citizens based on property tax. Has the financial benefit been achieved? Let's say that, say, half a million interested entities paid those 100 euros and thus filled the budget gap that exists in the Republic of Serbia's budget. Will Mr. Lazar Krstic manage to reduce the budget deficit based on these funds? I only remind you that in August, it amounted to over 30 billion dinars, that the state was making 550m euros in August and spent 810m euros, which is a disaster. As is the case with the spending of state money, it was also the case that certain deadlines, certain procedures, were carried out by state authorities, but no sanctions were imposed, are not foreseen at all. That's why this is happening to us. This law on legalization, which we're talking about today, is a little clearer and more precise in this regard, but only in this regard. If I were to talk about this law as a lawyer, it's something I've never seen before. If I try to speak as an MP, as a citizen trying to look at problems in the field, it's something different. I have studied how this issue has been resolved in neighbouring countries – in Montenegro and Croatia. There's no concept of legalization like this is supposed to be. This law provides for the subsequent issue of a construction and use permit, which is directly contrary to the constitutional principles of retroactivity. This isn't a lex specialis, this isn't a special law that can have a feedback, and unfortunately, it predicts such a possibility. Unfortunately, in Serbia, we find ourselves in such a situation that rarely anyone who builds legally, and the Assembly has in the past passed a series of laws that should have just allowed legal construction. I remind you, Mr. Minister, and you yourself have said that building without a building permit is a criminal offence, that the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia is still in 2003, meaning 10 years ago, that the person who performs the works or responsible person in the legal person who is the contractor of the building, or who performs the works on the reconstruction of an existing facility, without a building permit, will be punished by imprisonment from three months to three years and fines. A person who is an investor or a responsible person in it will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years and by fine. When a solution has been issued to suspend works and a person referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article will be punished by a prison of one to eight years. It is also a criminal offence for the Republic of Serbia when someone without permission joins infrastructure installations. How is it possible for someone to commit a crime and connect to electrical energy, to the plumbing, to the sewerage, to the telecommunications system? We just heard here that you said -- how can one minister against another minister file criminal charges? We heard that when a minister applies, he gets a permit in 30 days, and some other citizens wait 279 days. The characteristics of all these laws, which have been passed in parliament in the past, mean from that of Ivkovic in 1997 to Dulic in 2009, are complicated and expensive procedures. On the other hand, the obvious unpreparedness of state authorities, primarily inspection services, to respond to irregularities that occurred on the ground. That is why the Democratic Party of Serbia has always pointed out, when this topic was on the agenda, that we need an entire set of laws that will regulate both planning and building and building land. We think it's important to stop illegal construction first, stop the bleeding, and only then sew up the wound and treat the consequences. That is why we claim that the essence of the new Law on Planning and Construction is. He, thank God, went into public debate yesterday and with great attention we will follow how all this is going to happen, because it is very complicated that the problem that arose decades ago, which lasted for years, is impossible to solve in one day and on the basis of only one law, but many legal regulations must be changed. That's why we don't think it's a good order of moves. First, the Law on Planning and Construction was to be discussed, and then, just to stop the illegal construction that continues to be implemented, access the legalisation process. I would not like, like many times that has happened in this House, to read this legislative proposal in different ways, so that now the motionary and MPs of the ruling coalition consider him to be the best in the world. That's what we've been listening to, I say, one more time since 1997, right here. The opposition only criticises it for criticism. I guess it's in everyone's best interest to pass a good law that will solve some existential question, and to someone, unfortunately, to fill their own budget. Let's try to make things clear to all those who don't have this legal proposal, who probably want to become part of this whole process and enter the legalization process. This law provides that the application for legalisation is to be submitted for the authorisation of use and for the issue of a building and use permit. Here you are defined for two dates, which is 11 September 2009 and 11 March 2010. I can understand that you've attached yourself to the Constitutional Court Decision, but there's some doubt about what's going on with the construction since 2010. This bill of yours includes one large amount of documentation that all interested people need to collect, including geodetic footage, a project of a executed facility, proof of the right to use, any property, any lease on land and on buildings, paid compensation for the construction land and, of course, must be provided proof that all these fees have been paid. Anyone interested in the legalisation process will ask themselves, but also to the competent state authorities, some questions. First of all, how much will legalization cost me? This law gives local self-governments the opportunity to set the price, restores them the opportunity to regulate the area of compensation for the construction land, and now the question is raised there – some can establish a large discount that can amount to up to 99%, some may not decide, but they will certainly have to make sure that there is no discrimination, that this law does not end before the Constitutional Court and that some of its provisions are not brought down, as is the case with the Law on Planning and Construction. There must be no discrimination you know about – because it has happened many times already. All those who were legally building, paid all the fees, took out all the necessary permits, all those who paid regular electricity, who paid a TV subscription, dropped out the squirrels, and those who didn't pay for it got the reprogramme for five years, for ten years, shouldn't pay interest and are in a much more favourable position. This is inadmissible in a legal country as we believe the Republic of Serbia should become. To be clear, legalisation will cost a lot more both individuals and economic operators if implemented under this law. Because the price of the main project has to be paid. According to information I managed to collect, it amounts to 12 to 30 euros per metre square and must be paid compensation for editing city building land. Now it will be done by professionals, by companies dealing with this kind of work, it will no longer be done on the basis of records or reports from the construction commission. In the end, it should be said that they are unclear criteria. It's this famous member who regulates the way you pay. How many wars, what amount, for how many years, Mr. Minister? It will happen to us that we have able mayors and incompetent mayors, that we have mayors who will give a big discount because they are able to make terms of government, the new finance minister by the number of their MPs in parliament to vote on some legislative proposal or that the government will survive, to get out of the current budget reserve of 200, 300 million based on which to cover certain minuses in its municipality, and my mayor, regardless of which political parties, in order to fill the budget won't be able to go with such a discount and my fellow citizens will say - here's what local government does to us, they fine us. After all, they'll have to pay more. What happens to those people who say if I don't legalize, who knows what I have in my backyard? Is it clear to our citizens what an orthophoto video is, what that famous Google Street viu is? I'm sure there won't be a great rush on the legalisation process after the adoption of this law, that citizens' response will be almost negligible, because it is enough now, based on the law that we passed a few months ago, to just enroll in the immobility cadastre by the end of 2014. If they don't want to traffic their property, they don't want to sell, they don't have to go into the legal process at all. The question arises – how long can this request be submitted? Under the Law on the Registration of Property, all will have to do so by the end of 2014, but this law on legalisation is quite inaccurate in the part of Article 21, and we intervened on this through the amendments, because it does not set a deadline for competent authorities. A period of one year has been set for citizens, i.e. persons who wish to enter the legalisation process, but there is no legal deadline within which a state body is required to inform him that it is necessary to complete the documentation, so that a particular problem can be created. I think we've given a good solution that will regulate this issue in the right way. In the end, everyone will wonder, what do I actually have from this whole legalisation process, because if you don't put immovableity on the market, and most of our citizens have built their facilities to live in them, they won't sell them, they're going to register, they're going to pay that price of 100 euros, they're going to pay the tax on that property they have, but the problem is that the law applies to all those obligations, to all those people who've built huge business and housing facilities that, based on this, will be able to get the deed, to earn big money from selling these objects. It turns out that this is an imposed obligation, that someone is asking to match the state of the air image, with the condition of the catastrophe. You said that this is the obligation that the EU requires of us, and that in the end it is not our good will and desire to solve the legalisation problem in this country. I repeat once again, it must be taken seriously to avoid discrimination against citizens who have entered this procedure regularly, pay all fees and fees and those who will exercise some rights in this way. I think it's about time we stopped being some kind of "we'll make a deal on the ground". I just had a chance to hear from a colleague who was talking about the situation on Zlatibor. Since I know what problem he was bringing here, it is his question personally, family, his brother, Zlatibor tourists, the Jeremic family, and not Serbian citizens, we will have the opportunity to discuss it. Someone can't say that local powers are stopping the Law of Legalization. No, I don't. The president of a municipality, the Tchaitin municipality, expressed his opinion, his position. He believes that his fellow citizens in the Tchaitina municipality will be damaged by not earning local budgets from legalisation, not selling out the country around the lake, so that some privateer will build hotels, salters or whatever. The Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed concrete solutions. We've proposed a series of amendments, but I'm telling you frankly, whether they're accepted or not, we can't support this law because we think straight madness is constantly repeating the same thing, and expect a second result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23403	The word has the People's Messenger Susan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23404	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members, if this time we really want to implement this law in practice, and not only to remain a dead letter on paper, then it is necessary to prepare very well and studioly, because illegal construction is something that has existed in Serbia for more than 30, 40 years and cannot be solved only by the adoption of the Law on Legalisation. The problem of illegal construction should be solved where it arises, but also in institutions which are legally required to monitor and prevent the occurrence of illegal construction. In addition, it is necessary to analyse the causes affecting illegal construction and the causes that affect the small interest of lawless builders to legalise their facilities. Surely they are one of the basic causes of social opportunity, and this is about citizens who have built it, because they have not been able to make a roof over their heads legally, mainly for financial reasons, but on the other hand there are lawless builders who, avoiding the law, have made a profit and that law has to make a sharp difference. Also, the causes and unnecessaryly large and expensive procedures. Of course, there are major problems and unresolved property-legal relations, inspection bodies that do not respond in time, or when building starts. Legalisation as a topic is important for a large number of citizens and should be a special law, as is now foreseen, a law that will provide citizens with information on what can be legalised, how and under what conditions. It was rather illogical, like so far, that the same law treats both legal and illegal construction. Serbia is a state in which a large number of buildings have been built without approval for construction. The construction of these facilities was in most cases without a project, without professional supervision and without respect for norms and regulations for building buildings. With illegal, or unquality construction, inadequate design, public land takeover, illegal infrastructure integration, local self-government on whose territory was being built, as well as the whole of Serbia, has been damaged. For the sake of reminders, the state has been trying for years, since 1997, 2003, 2005, 2009, 2010, by adopting the Law on Planning and Construction, which thus tried to deal with illegal construction and to put illegal construction into legal frameworks, but unfortunately, it has not given a greater response when it comes to illegal builders, although the laws from year to year have been increasingly liberal. With this draft law on legalisation before us, the state has again decided to introduce order in the area of building facilities and enable citizens, in whose possession the facilities are illegally built, to legalise their facilities within a certain period of time and under certain conditions. However, the massity, or legalisation of a number of objects, I doubt that this law will be achieved for a number of reasons, which I will quote in the further discussion, which can be removed by the adoption of amendments submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. Legalisation is a solution for illegally built buildings, and that's fine, and that's what Europe requires of us, but I think we should have passed the Law on Planning and Construction that would simplify and cheapen the procedure, as it is announced, and stopped the illegal construction, that some new government would not have to pass a new Law on legalisation, and then to solve the existing consequences of the so-called so-called so-called. Wild construction. The key provision of the Bill on Legalisation is that the facilities will be built, or reconstructed or upgraded without a building permit, or without building approval, by 11 September 2009 and for which a request for a subsequent issue of the building permit was submitted by 11 March 2010. From 2009 to today, 300,000 buildings have been illegally built in Serbia. The question arises – how is it possible to build so many objects illegally, after the adoption of the 2009 Planning and Construction Act, without reacting to inspection bodies, without stopping construction, without destroying the starting objects, which is much more reasonable than destroying the facilities that have been completed and moved in. We do not advocate that the lawless builders be privileged compared to those who built on a building permit, or building approval, but we advocate that if, by any means, we adopt the Law on Legalisation, this law should not discriminate against those who built after 2009 compared to those who built before 2009. The illegal construction was banned from the adoption of the first Law on Planning and Construction, yet it was illegally built and laws were passed that allowed lawless builders to legalise their facilities. Why would we now punish those who illegally built after 2009, and want to legalize their facilities under the provisions of this law? From your presentation, Mr. Minister, I have concluded that you are neither a supporter of the demolition that would result in many families losing their roof over their heads. It's not about five objects, it's about 300,000 buildings, and many have built houses without respecting the law, because they didn't have the means to comply with everything the law provides, to pay projects, fees, consent, taxes. The question is – are we going to tear down such objects and thus create more social cases? In Smederev lives a family of seven members with three underage children. They live in an object of 50 meters square, without electricity, and without water. Believe that every day they called and asked when we would pass a law on legalisation, which would allow their facility, which was built after 2009, to be able to join the utility networks. You can imagine the fear they're looking at today and listening to what we're saying. There are many such families in Serbia, and we can't just go over it. The SPS parliamentary group has submitted an amendment to the provisions of this article. Also, Article 5. The proposal for this law provides that a building permit, i.e. a useful permit, can be issued for facilities for which a legalisation application was submitted by 11 March 2010. This means that there is no new deadline for the facilities built by 2009 and for which no application for legalisation has been submitted. Of the millions and 400,000 illegal objects, 700,000 legalisation requirements were filed under earlier laws. Of those 700,000, it's only legalized slightly more than 10%, and the rest are at the initial stage, i.e. in the application phase. Generally, the reasons for this are unresolved property-legal relations, non-reaction of some local self-government, sending them notifications, what should be supplied from documentation or in whole or part of it built on public surfaces and on areas in protected zones, etc. Most of these objects will not be legalized under this law either, so I wonder, for which objects do we pass this law if we do not extend the deadlines? The proposed law lays down the documentation necessary for legalisation. Under the Constitutional Court's decision, legalisation must take place under the same conditions that apply to the regular obtaining of a building permit. The Constitutional Court has declared the legalisation provisions contained in the Law on Planning and Construction unconstitutional because of the unequal position of those who built under the regulations. The proposal for this law introduces the obligation to submit additional documentation in relation to the current Law on Planning and Construction. By applying the Planning and Construction Act in the legalisation work, it has so far provided for a smaller range of technical documentation, technical report, a record of the skills done with geodetic footage, no installation and sketches for auxiliary facilities. According to the draft of this law for all objects, except for the auxiliary one, which is not mentioned otherwise, the main projects are being done which, among other things, instead of the geodetic footage contain a geodetic-topographic plan and a block of installation schemes, with a way of joining the external network. It also needs to be attached to a project task that is definitely unnecessary at this stage when the facility exists on the ground, when the facility is already built. It is okay that those who have built without permission will not be in a privileged position compared to those who have built by law, but those obligations should have been reduced by at least what is not necessary at this stage and what could have been avoided. Article 3 provides for the consent of the owner of the adjacent facility built or reconstructed at a distance from the adjacent facility against the conditions prescribed by the planning documents. It means that one object can meet all the required conditions regarding the documentation, regarding the time limit of the property, but if the neighbor is angry and does not give consent, then the object cannot be legalized. That's what you've been talking about, and we agree on this. I think there must be a difference between the buildings where the owner of the neighbouring building did not object and the buildings where the neighbor responded, reported the construction, filed a complaint, initiated the procedure and so on. It is much more practical to resolve this problem by law than to settle it in court disputes. This member should also be complemented, so that local self-government can make a decision within a certain period which would otherwise determine the conditions for distance from the neighbouring facility. The start of legalisation implies that citizens have resolved property-legal relations on land, which is otherwise a major problem in Serbia and one of the reasons for illegal construction, but also one of the reasons why the inability to legalise buildings built on parcels where the property is not solved. For these reasons, I believe that property-legal relations had to pay more attention to this law and foresee what everything could be considered as proof of resolved property-legal relations on building land, such as a purchase contract, a transfer of the right of use contract that was confirmed by 2003, a judicial verdict, of course, with respect to the legal trail, as well as other legal transactions on which the applicant acquired property rights on land. There is also no possibility of legalisation of buildings built on land in the co-owned, or in the co-ordinating of more persons. The owner of an illegally built facility is required to pay compensation for the construction land. What's good is that the law gives the possibility that compensation for the construction land can be paid further for 20 years. The amount of compensation will be determined by local self-government. As the law predicts, there must be a difference in the amount of burden for those citizens who built on land without infrastructure, differences depending on the area of the facility, the purpose of the facility, the urban zone. It is necessary to take care of and distinguish between citizens who have built to resolve their existential issue and their families, single parents, disabled people, socially endangered categories and those who have built to earn profits. Article 32. The bill, which refers to the destruction of objects, should be deleted, except for works relating to buildings built on public areas in areas of natural good, traffic, intersections and the like. The state has allowed 1,400,000 buildings to be built in Serbia, families to move into these facilities, and none of the authorities have responded, and now we need to tear them down. If we want to punish those who have illegally built and who do not want to comply with this law on legalisation, it should be defined for less repressive measures, in terms of higher payment of property tax or some other form of sanctions. Connecting to the infrastructure is one of the reasons why it should stimulate lawless builders to legalise their facilities, as the law stipulates that illegal facilities can only be connected to the municipal infrastructure temporarily, until the legalisation process is completed and that they will be excluded unless the legalisation process is completed within two years. In order for one facility to be connected to an electrical-water sewerage network, it must have a building permit or an ex post building permit. The facility is not required to be registered, nor to have a valid permit. This problem of connection of objects to the municipal network is not resolved by the Law on special conditions for the entry of objects into the immovableity cadastre, because the entry of an object itself is not enough to connect the object to the municipal networks. It will not be resolved now, because for 700,000 buildings built by 2009, for which no application for legalisation under earlier regulations has been submitted, 300,000 buildings built after 2009, which are mainly not connected to the infrastructure, will not be able to join even under the provisions of this law because they will not be able to submit additional legalisation requirements. Citizens living in such buildings live below every level of decent life. The state must find a way to inform citizens about their rights and obligations in matters of legalisation, but also to take certain measures to ensure that citizens take the procedure seriously, or the obligation to legalise their facilities. Construction with a building permit is one of the fundamental conditions of the rule of law with regulated construction law, a state defined for order, legality and legal certainty. That's why we urgently need a law on planning and construction. We need to adapt this law on legalisation to the real situation on the ground or to some real, because the situation on the ground is different and it is impossible to put them all into one law, but regulations and regulations must try to bring ourselves closer to solving real problems, respecting, above all, the social status of citizens. Citizens must first of all know that building with a building permit and compensation for obtaining a building and use permit is the only way to establish their property rights on buildings and that this is different from registering buildings in the immobility cataster. With legal facilities alone, citizens have legal and economic security regarding property and the availability of their facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23405	Thank you. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23406	Let me just answer the MP who asked a few very important questions. We had to pass the Law on Legalisation as soon as possible because of the facilities awaiting legalisation, and especially because of many of the objects that were sold, bought in privatisation, etc., and did not have the opportunity because the law was anti-constitutional and out of force. So, in order not to wait for all these procedures about the Law on Planning and Construction, we had to drop this law a little earlier, and in 30 days it would be regulated in the Law on Planning and Construction. I don't see anyone having any reason, and there's really going to be a crash after that, that makes an object without a building permit, if it's free, if it gets very fast on one counter, what all the citizens are looking for. That means he's pushing spite, humiliating and underestimating certain institutions if he won't take a building permit. It is true that you are right that there are about 300,000 objects built in this period from 2009 to today and that are problematic. We were embarrassed to include it in the law because it would not allow us any court if many received criminal charges and were prosecuted. We can't get into their legalization process now. We will resolve this issue through this Law on Planning and Construction, and that is the only way to get into a regular process to resolve this issue. Plugins that cannot be obtained on these objects, and it is enough to log in to the process, you get an automatic connection right, just to log in and enter the legalization process. So that question, if you try through the amendments, I respect the MPs, respect, and always respected, if you enter the amendment. I couldn't as a minister suggest that we legalize someone who has a criminal record because he committed a crime, then humiliate the inspection services and all the organs that technically did it. But parliament is parliament. You're proposing amendments, you're adopting laws, you're adopting amendments. I can't do a job now that I don't have the authority to do, but you as a parliament have the right to bring in certain amendments or anything, which is quite justified, if it gets most of it, something you suggest for me will be quite normal to accept, because parliament is parliament. All of us who come here must respect the majority of MPs who vote for certain changes. So you're the only one who can make a difference. The Assembly has those powers. I don't have a minister myself. I can't legalize someone who's been charged with criminal charges and prosecuted him, but if you have the option and you provide most of it for such a thing, it's your right to, of course, try through the amendments. I thank you for a very correct discussion where, as our people say, they're causing trouble for our citizens. We have a lot of people coming every day. Thousands of them can't attach electricity, water, to connect, and we have to deal with it. That's a big problem. But once again I appeal to all the citizens of Serbia and all the institutions, after the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, which takes place in wild construction, it is really incorrect and there is no reason not to destroy such objects. I appeal to local authorities and inspection services, tear down the facility at the start, don't create an object, finish, move people in, then enter the crash process. That's very awkward. So don't let him start construction if he doesn't have the right to do it, and if the building permit is free, even though he'll get it in a few days. The procedure especially for private housing is very simple and there is no reason not to take a building permit, if it is all regulated and very simple, and very fast. So you're really humiliating this country, too. Then you force spite and then such a citizen will have a problem with certain state institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23407	MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23408	The Honorable Madam Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the Constitutional Court marked in December last year the unconstitutional provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction relating to legalisation. He's given a six-month deadline for those provisions to comply with the Constitution. However, this government, as well as everything else, has put off these reforms and we have come into a situation that we have had a legal vacuum for four months that cannot be legalized. When we take and read this Bill of Legalization, we can conclude without error that writing such a law takes 15 days the most. The question arises why was obstruction in the adoption of this law and why did we have a legal vacuum of four months in the area of legalization? However, although the law has been written for nearly ten months, it remains unconstitutional. Therefore, not all provisions declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional have been removed. Furthermore, it is contradictory, incomplete, incomplete and abolishing certain provisions that the previous law had that facilitated the legalisation process, which the Constitutional Court did not declare unconstitutional or anti-constitutional. It is unconstitutional because it continues to contradict the principles of unity of the legal order. The Constitutional Court's decision clearly defined that no legalisation of objects built between 2003 and 2009. The 2003 Law on Planning and Building Unlawful Construction has been declared or qualified as a criminal offence. The Constitutional Court, therefore, said because of the principle of unity of the legal order that no legalisation of objects that were built between 2003 and 2009, is possible because it legalises something that is the product of committing a crime. This law did not remove that anti-constitutional provision. Therefore, it continues to refer to buildings built by 2009 and in this sense we expect the Constitutional Court to declare it unconstitutional in a certain period of time. He's contradictory because, for example, he's... Article 12 provides that the application for legalisation shall contain in point 4 evidence of the regulation of the relationship with respect to the payment of compensation for the construction land. While Article 21 provides that evidence of the arrangement of mutual relations with the body, that is, the organisation which regulates the building land is to be delivered when the owner of an illegally built facility is informed by the competent authority of the possibility of legalisation. So, Minister, does the fee for the construction land or the conclusion of a contract with the authority in charge of charging and the fee be concluded or paid before the application for legalisation or after obtaining a positive opinion on the possibility of legalisation? Or maybe you predicted he could pay twice, which isn't real. It is also contradictory in Article 21 where it is said that the deadline cannot be longer than one year from the date of entry into force of this law to supplement the requirements. What if within that year, the State Authority does not notify the party at all of the need to supplement the legalisation requirements? Does the state authority have a sanction? Did you, by this law, oblige the state authority to act in relations with people who have submitted an initiative to legalize themselves? Article 22 states that if, within 6 months of the date of receipt of the notice referred to in Article 21 of this Act, the applicant does not provide the necessary documentation, the competent authority will reject the request. Is the deadline six months from the day of receipt or one year from the entry into force of the law? It stays here unsaid. The law is also contradictory in the part where, in a conflict with the Law on the Registration of Illegal Objects in Katastre, because the Law on the Registration of Illegal Objects in Catastre provides for legalisation applications to be submitted by 11 March 2010, so I ask how, in accordance with Article 39 of this Law, the application and application for legalisation will be considered as requirements within the meaning of this Article and the law? If the legalisation requirements are already forwarded to the RGZ, which is due to enter illegal objects into the cadastre, how will the competent urban authorities comply with this requirement if they have already forwarded the requirements of the cadastre? The law is imprecise. So he's non-binding. Because there is no sanction for a state body that does not comply with legalisation requirements. Theoretically, someone can apply for legalization and get an answer for 20, 50 years or maybe never. Simply, there is no sanctions in the law which will oblige the state authority to act within a certain time limit and to submit the i.e. draws a solution or conclusion on the possibilities of legalising an object. The law is also imprecise in the work of legalising housing. This law provides for housing to be legalized by one solution. Take an example: we have an illegal investor who built a apartment building of 20 apartments, sold all the apartments, and now we're making him legalize the building. He doesn't have any economic interest in registering that building because he's already sold the apartments. Why would he put himself in a position now if he had to bear any more new costs? The previous law provided that each physical continent of that apartment building was specifically legalised and that for each physical continent of that building, i.e. for each apartment, a special solution is made. We have restored the possibility to the amendments, because this kind of provision simply won't lead to the situation of legalising housing buildings where investors have already sold all the apartments. This law repeals the provisions that facilitate the procedure. For example, so-called legalization on the doorstep. We had a situation that municipalities that cared about the interests of their citizens concluded contracts with citizens who applied for legalisation and provided geodetic footage and project documentation on behalf and on behalf of citizens. The citizens, of course, paid these services but did not go to the municipality and thus went much faster and easier on the legalisation process. This law abolishes that possibility, although the Constitutional Court did not mark those provisions as anti-constitutional. We have restored the possibility to the amendments because we believe that this makes it easier and faster for the legalisation process to take place and that it will make it easier for citizens to legalise their facilities. There is a major conflict between the Law on the Registration of Objects and the proposed Law on Legalisation. The Law on the Registration of Objects in Catastre, not to quote the entire title, provides that property over a specific facility can be entered in a cadastre literally on the basis of two accounts – based on a water bill and based on an electricity bill. Now I ask you - if a particular object is entered in the cadastre, and then it does not satisfy, for example, Article 3. Law on legalization and a solution is issued on the demolition of the facility, in what position do we bring citizens who have entered the facility into the cadastre and then after that, and based on this law, because they don't meet all the prescribed conditions of this law, we issue a solution to the collapse and tear down the facility next year? This law also provides for the possibility of joining infrastructure facilities, for buildings built without a building permit, which only apply for legalisation. To me, it looks like this: if someone has an object that is illegally built, is not connected to infrastructure facilities, and submits a legalisation request, they will get access to infrastructure facilities, but since the law on legalisation does not prescribe a deadline within which a state body must answer whether it meets the legalization requirements, this facility can remain in some unresolved status and use all infrastructure facilities without a building permit and use it. I am afraid that such provisions are not random and that they specifically serve certain buildings that are now built, which do not have access to the infrastructure, which will legally get access to the infrastructure without obtaining a building and use permit. Mr. Secretary, I need to remind you of what you said an hour ago. I quote: “You have to ask your neighbor to give you the consent to build a company, a freezer, or anything. The neighbor will never give you while he's alive. What do you do now? Nothing. I kicked that out of the law... “ etc. I wonder, did you even read this law? For Article 3(2) states: “Excludingly from the provision of Article 1(5) of this Article, the competent authority will subsequently issue a building and use permit if the applicant applies for legalisation the certified consent of the owner of the adjacent facility. ” Did you write this law or not? I really don't understand you and I'm asking you to explain it to me. We've given the amendment to delete this member, because it's pointless. The citizens rightly wonder why this law. So we have statements from the minister that citizens do not have to legalise objects or, I quote, "if you want to work for the market, so to sell and enter objects, you have to enter the legalisation process and such objects must have adequate fire protection". I ask you: Should not objects that are not for sale, where people live with their children, families, have adequate fire protection? Or, if you are the owner of 30 years and if no one has complained, it is enough to sign up for a cadastre, and then, since, under Article 39 of the Law, an automatic application for legalisation is submitted, and your neighbor does not give you consent to be away at a less distance from the prescribed, then you get a solution on the demolition and the minister announces for the spring next year's collapse. The question arises who will enforce the law. Three months ago, we had a law on state diameter and catastro. According to my information from the Department of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, the number requires it. The number of objects in the second degree is increasing more and more. So you're not dealing with any catastrophe issues. You're announcing a new law on planning and construction that will solve everything on one counter, and what about 35,000 pending cases in the second degree in your ministry? How are we going to solve these problems? The minister asked us to focus on the law, but since he did not fully focus, in order to defend the profession, I must say that Serbia has extraordinary construction engineers. You just need a little effort and interference, and you'll find supervisory authorities for all the projects that are in place, and they're getting smaller and smaller. We at the Faculty of Civil Engineering insist on training good engineers. Maybe it's a problem, for example. Megatrend didn't build a construction college, so just to make it easier and faster. Luckily for this country, it hasn't happened yet, and we hope it doesn't happen. We're still training good engineers who can answer any call. Here, let me return the question. My best friend from the studio, an excellent student, is leaving for Qatar today. Why didn't you give him conditions to stay in Serbia and work here and get to survive his family? There's one more thing left. In your earlier address, you said that the father of a party leader was taking money so that his son wouldn't tear down an object. I don't have a stenogram. You'll let me convince you. Since it is a crime not to report a crime, I call you here for the sake of the entire Serbian public to tell you who it is. So clearly state the name and name of the man who did this crime and you will contribute to the fight against corruption. In December, you came to us with an amendment to the Law on Planning and Construction where you said- Here, just to lift the conversion and wait for billions of euros in investment to come to Serbia. We've been explaining to you that it doesn't matter. However, it is obvious that the conversion was lifted due to an individual case, since official statistics say the construction industry dropped by 42.5% this year. The Democratic Party has given more than 20 amendments to the Law on Legalisation of Objects. I hope that my discussion and our amendments will help the law to be passed in a better form and at least be applicable. The Democratic Party, regardless of the amendment, will not vote for such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23409	Thank you. The word has Minister Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23410	I am very sorry when the MPs through their discussion speak a series of facts that are false because he did not hear them. He didn't hear what I said. Maybe he wasn't even listening, maybe he wasn't there, and he's assuming something that's been said and what it's about. The first question was why it was a vacuum for four months. It has entered the reconstruction of the government. The law was over. The law on planning and construction could not enter a public debate, and it was over. Some ministers, when they heard they were going to be changed, went on vacation and were no longer working. Who's gonna give me the consent? How am I supposed to get to parliament? (Alexander Senic, from the post: Who is this minister? ) Now I'm not going to list, but none of them wanted to give any answer to the paper they got to give consent. Nobody. He didn't want to, he left, and we just couldn't get to the parliament. That's the reason. It is true that urbanism needs to deliver documentation to Katastru, but copies, and originals remain in urbanism. That's true, and what you said isn't true. We have one problem – why is the number of objects increasing? That's what I'd ask you, sir. We solve twice as many daily items as we've dealt with in previous years. We've increased the number of lawyers twice. Do you know why the number of objects is increasing? Because you registered in Belgrade before this government arrived only on the municipality of Voždovac 980 objects in the City of Belgrade, and in all of Serbia, counting part of Vojvodina, yours is the leadership there, 44,000 objects. People fainted when they came from abroad. You've booked them houses, posters in Belgrade City. You signed up for the Department of People's Defence's press release on the City of Belgrade. You've booked my ministry's facilities. I'm paying you rent now to the city of Belgrade. I pay you rent every month. You wrote down everything because Director Katastra was your man, the D.A. wrote that he was consensual and that there was no objection, and the Katastra Legal Service then wrote that there was no objection and that it could come into effect immediately without those eight days. It's all done in one day, sir. Look at that in the paperwork. The investigation is against it. I think someone fat will answer. You people who lived, for example, in the Boulevard here, you took the sheets, the houses, you sold them, and you built that building. People come from vacation and see the building in the yard. That's what you did on speed auctions, along with some commission, you sold it all out. That's one big problem. Now all these citizens have written to the ministry letters, requests, requests for annulment, seeking a solution, 44,000 objects. You have a copy, I can give you. Come whenever you want. The Directorate for Property of the Republic of Serbia does not know that it has been robbed and that everything has been transferred to the City of Belgrade. Do you know what the Republic of Serbia Property Directorate now has in Belgrade? There's almost nothing. We don't have an object in the government. You've translated the government building into the city and we're paying you rent now. Do you understand? You can come, you'll see all the papers. You can see all that. It's all handed over to certain institutions to conduct an investigation. That's why the number of objects is increasing. That catastrian mess that Mr. Tesla made as the CEO and the team that was working there, that's inappropriate. In one day, 980 facilities were registered at the Voždovac municipality and private and state facilities. I don't know what it was, but we'll talk about it. I didn't say that the company needed someone to give consent, but I said something else - the farm. No Serbian citizen has received the neighbour's consent to build a farm. That's what I was saying. A farm, not a firm. The peasants have to make companies, because that's what they live on. They came to me the other day and people said, "Get it out." You can go as fast as you like, when you say pig farm, the hero farm, they say - no. He won't give you consent, no neighbor ever will. We have to sort this out because of these farmers. That's what I was talking about, not the company. It's the farm. I'm telling you, the farm. I'm sorry it was misspelled, and I think I was talking about the farm. You know that no farm in Serbia has been opened in the last few years, no one has been able to get consent and we need to resolve this issue. The peasant lives on it and he doesn't have a chance to open a farm, he can't open a farm anywhere, no one gives him consent, no one. No consent has been signed, no one will sign. So we have to change something or cancel, here's the Stock Fund shutting down, and there's gonna be farms that don't have licenses, and there's almost none that can be legalized, there's nothing you can do with them. They lock them up, people go into court disputes and they can't solve them. That's a big problem. Please help us solve this. I didn't say - never legalize. I said to those who can't legalize, because legalization will be expensive, enough to enroll, they've reconciled some obligation to re-enter the motions. At least it doesn't cost anything. So sign in. Don't let the object stay unlegalized and let's not be so cruel and now say it's the easiest thing to say in 2003 is we won't legalize anything, we won't sign anything up, and you know how much it is, it's a million objects, sir. I'd like to see you go public and say, "I'm going to tear down a million objects in Serbia." This is the period when refugees from Kosovo came and when houses were made, people were struggling to bring some material, get some donations and build, etc. We have to solve this issue together and I'm glad you have experts, but believe me, it's not my fault. Your colleague who went to Qatar, I visited Qatar, there's a salary for engineers 3,000 dollars minimum, up to 5,000, up to 6,000, 7,000, 8,000, and unfortunately here in the ministry, a young fellow engineer has a salary of 50,000 and you're all asking that it doesn't increase to stay there. I'd like to see a young construction engineer extra-talented to come and say, "Here I'm going to work." I think that rookie is from 40,000 to 50,000 dinars. When you tell him 40,000 he says goodbye, thank you very much and goes away. Not a single lawyer, here are the cities, do you know that 30 municipalities in Serbia have no lawyers in the catastro? For these wages that urbanists don't have. There's not gonna be a lawyer with a legal exam, a working experience to come and solve any cases. We now send from Kragujevec a lawyer to go to the municipalities and visit for one day at a time. We're driving him to handle things. He doesn't want to get a job, he doesn't want to work, he goes to some law firm. That's the problem of the state, us all. We need to pay the people adequately. Don't just attack. There sits Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Djelic, we were together in the government. He was Deputy Prime Minister, I was Minister. When you went to open "Delta Siti", I told you – Mr. Djelic, you cannot open it, there is no building permit, no use, nothing. But Mr Djelic liked to go in front of the cameras and open "Delta Siti". I couldn't stop him. When a certain gentleman saw it where he was, he built everything illegally. He says - the vice president came to me, opened up, give me permission, what now. I remember well then that I warned the government. Gentlemen don't have a building permit or a valid permit. If we from the government go to open a facility like this, take pictures and make statements that it's great for Serbia, that we support it, it's a crime. I tried, some people, and now to stop, not to open some factories there without permission. Did you know that one of your colleagues opened the factory, brought in an investor who needs five megawatts of electricity? There's no megawatt in that whole area, and he brought me an Italian man, and he killed me because he asks me to give it to him every day. He says, "I've won a promise." I'm saying -- what a promise, man, we don't have a power line around here. He says, "What do I care, bring me electricity?" That current costs five times as much as the factory. I didn't replicate the gentleman who was talking about my colleague before that. It is true that there is a crisis in construction, but today, my dear gentlemen, you can't find a good carpenter. Do you know how much a good carpenter costs, from 700, 800 to 1000 euros? Do you know how many employees there are at the flag, 20,000 dinars. Do you know how much we invested there for them? Ask. Or at some factories where the cutting of cables is, etc. where we gave huge money, and the boss now pays 15, 16, 17, 18 grand. People are running away from these factories. That's why I'm telling you, he's got professions, but he's asking to be paid. They go to work on black, get sick all summer and go. They've gone to Qatar, and I've met our workers there as long as you like, but without two or three thousand euros, none of them have. So it's not true he doesn't have a job. With me at the ministry on projects currently under way, there are 2 billion euros in work. I don't know what else to do. What more should be done to make it work? He's got all the work you want. Do you believe that both Albanians and Bulgarians and many on the side now work on our construction sites. They came as a labor force. Now they come from the Federation mass, because we don't have enough footage. We don't have workers and that's the problem. You have 5,000 Serbs now in Sochi who are currently working. The best workers make good money there. They won't come here, of course. What do we do? I said what the average age of our employee is, we all have to do it together. I'm glad you're working at a college I really appreciate. If it wasn't for the Faculty of Civil Engineering, Architecture, Traffic to do audits, and it's very cheap, sometimes even free of charge, because the government wasn't in a position to pay them, we'd have even less to do. I want to thank them publicly now. You know that one highway takes a truck of project documentation and those teachers we really torture work day and night on audits, on consent. You know what it means to do the use of a thermal power plant that's being reconstructed or one hydroelectric? Well done, people work day and night. But it still bothers me when we can't pay them, because what's paid for the permit is now going into the budget, not the ministry's revenues. It's actually paying people who work, but work for free. I really want to thank them. I'm more embarrassed to call from. Hundreds of professors work for free to help Serbia, primarily with architecture, construction and electrical engineering, from the Faculty of Engineering, etc. We have to do something and we have to change. So I'm telling you, don't argue now, this law isn't ideal, but the Constitutional Court has asked us to do something, to bridge it. Someone who wants to legalize, bought it, and no legalization of the facility can't get into the bank, can't get the funds, come in, and tour the thresholds. Soon there will be a law on planning and building and trust, all who wanted to participate in its construction, in its writing, are at least different people who are in any way connected to the government, all of them by experts on the law. I'm glad to see you, too, if you have any objections, to improve it, to be really good. I'll be too happy for everyone who has any ideas to come and bring them. I'm glad there were many professors involved, I'm sure your friends. They came and asked to make a contribution. They brought their advice, etc. and the Chamber of Commerce and Companies and Associations and the World Bank and USAID and who didn't include everything to assist and assist. I'm glad that many countries have sent their experts to help us make a good law. But support that law. In 30 days, we'll have him in the Assembly and we'll get that license in seven days, and we'll have the opportunity to get a permit on one counter and be free of charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23411	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Senic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23412	Mr. Secretary had 16 minutes, I'll try my two. So, on May 15th, Assistant Minister of Construction and Urbanism Aleksandra Damjanovic said the law would be passed within the deadline. The press asked her, and that's 21 days from now. She said yes. You might as well ask her if you'd stop by the ministry. By the way, let's get back to the provisions of the law. I'm asking you -- why doesn't the law contain binding deadlines for the state administration? You didn't answer me when the land planning fee was paid, did you apply for it or later? Article 12 provides for a pre-application of the application, Article 21 is subsequently prescribed. The fact that 900 and some of the facilities were registered and the government was registered to the City of Belgrade, if that's true, is because the Minister of Construction made a failure and did not respond to public exposure and allowed the facilities to move to the City of Belgrade, which was the designer of the detailed regulation plan. For example, last year, you were a minister... Thank you for this young engineer, but let me tell you that my colleague has realised projects worth over 500m euros, that he has worked in Sochi so far, that he has previously worked on the reconstruction of Gazela, for Strabac, so he is not a young engineer who should work for 50,000 dinars, but a serious, experienced engineer, perhaps at the best of his life. You don't answer where those investments are. You've lifted the conversion. Billion euros in investment, 100 billion euros in pre-election promise, for 10 years 10 billion euros each year. Where are those investments? Let's count them like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23413	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23414	Mr. Ilichu, it's always been fun with you. Here's another discussion that never happened. I went where the Prime Minister appointed me to go, Mr. Kostunica. I'm sorry you didn't invite me to the opening of your hospital, which in the end didn't seem to open. To be serious, Mr. Ilic, you well know that as far as construction is concerned, it is a sector that runs at least 16 other sectors and if we should be looking for a engine that can restart the economy of Serbia, it is certainly a resort that you at least partially cover and we know that you have some problems due to the division in this government and we regret that you did not during the reconstruction, which you have now publicly admitted to being a recipe for unhappiness and for avoiding responsibility, that six months people who obviously did not know whether they were going to remain ministers, did nothing or at least work at that capacity and intensity that is expected from people who have to face this crisis. What is not clear is maybe – why has there been no legalization since you've been in all these affairs? Legalization of the highway, we were together in the government, so we worked a year to save that concession you signed a few days before the new government came. It was nothing again. So, I think it's important that you have some legacy after you, too, that something remains. Here, I'm asking you a specific question, because you talked about it a little while ago, you allowed as a minister to take off the rebalancing and what little was planned for the building and not to talk about those who are politicizing everything, much has already been approved to build, in the City of Belgrade as many as two million squares could be built if there were funds and some perspectives in this country. It's not happening, and it's not everything, although it's in that guillotine regulation. As far as we know, Mr. Ilic, by the end of the year, the finance minister has taken everything down. Your quota is zero. Are you going to fight for at least some of the 2014 budgets so that these 100,000 jobs don't die, as many of them are in the building, and after a few major bankruptcys, will we realize that there's nothing left of our operation? Is that what you want to leave behind?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23415	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23416	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that at this point most Serbian citizens are wondering – why is this new law on legalisation now being passed, don't we already have one that is in place? As long as they're more afraid of new deadlines and ask us for a bunch of paperwork without even knowing what they're asking us to do? All those who ask questions like this are right. In the past 10 years, the former regime has brought complete interference into this area, saying it wants to be arranged and not only has it not been arranged, but it has also passed laws that hair each other, for example. that for one area, if you build irregularly, by criminal law you will be prosecuted, prosecuted, and if you are not caught by that law, then you can submit a legalization request and legalize your illegally built facility. If they had obeyed the laws they had passed themselves, they would have seen for themselves the situation they were in. But the worst part of it is that even in 10 years, the legalisation job is not finished, not only is it not finished, but it is legalized just over 10% of the total number of legalisation applications submitted. That's really devastating. Now I would go back to the beginning of my story and try to explain at least some of these questions to the citizens. Why is the law on legalization of objects actually passed? So far, this area has not been regulated by a special law. In 2003, the Law on Planning and Construction was first adopted, and he planned in one part to regulate the legalisation area as a transitional solution and after that, any wild construction would be sanctioned. However, amendments and additions to this same law in 2006 and 2009 not only lay down new deadlines allowing new legalisation requirements to be submitted, but simply trying to resolve the legalisation area in one system way. In this way, simply those people who built their facilities in that time period after obtaining a building permit were simply put into an unfair relationship with those who first built their buildings, and then legalized them. What is raised as a logical question is – how is it possible that in 2009-2010, until the deadline for submission, 700,000 legalisation requirements were filed in Serbia? How is it possible that only a few years of legalization requirements are almost doubled? Where did you get the new laws? Why did the deadline for surrender move from 2003 to 11 September 2009? Why is legalization applied to these facilities when the period was regulated by the Law on Planning and Construction? Why didn't these objects be treated as newly built? There is a very clear answer to this question. It just didn't really approach the problem. The citizens wanted to legalize their facilities and there's no doubt about it. That's just what the number of applications filed is about. However, those who were interested in this area as much as they had personal benefits from their own are the ones who sat, unfortunately, perhaps today sitting on various counters and organs that are responsible for giving us building permits. We could often hear that citizens no longer know what they're looking for in the municipality, which is why they're still adding their items, and not rarely have we had cases to go ask about our case and send us to a very specific projector from the municipality, to tell us that he knows that he's drawing and drawing a project exactly the way we should. However, he is a little more expensive than others, but your job will certainly be settled. What is certain is that in the past 10 years, the most benefits of legalisation were the agencies that worked on the tasks of measuring building land, i.e. parcels, or agencies that were involved in any legalisation work. It is not disputed until the moment we find that the owners of these agencies are the people who work in the competent authorities to issue permits. Of course, these people meant that this job was more complicated and that they applied for legalization as many times as possible. As for the answer to the question - don't we already have one law regarding legalization? The answer is, we don't. On July 6th, this year, the Constitutional Court announced its decision saying it was members from 185 to 200. The law on planning and construction is unconstitutional, that they are not in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act, which says building objects without a building permit is a criminal offence. In all of this, it remains unclear why these two laws are not in line, under which criteria has been evaluated, which of the citizens who illegally built it will be punished under one law, and who will legalise their object in another request. After all, who is responsible for one of these situations? What does the word, or the legalization process, really mean? Legalisation is a process of obtaining a building and use permit for an object or part of an object built, constructed or reconstructed without a building permit, or used without the use of a permit. Legalisation also includes the process of obtaining a useful permit, if the facility is built by 11 September 2009 and has a building permit, but was used without the use of permission. What is the paper of this bill is that it does not set new deadlines for submitting applications. So this law refers to those requirements that the citizens have already submitted. However, although citizens have submitted a request for legalisation, it does not mean they will be able to legalise their facility. In fact, Article 3 of this Law provides for cases where, unfortunately, objects cannot be legalised, and this specifically refers to those objects that are built on irregular soil, more specifically wetlands, rinks, as well as objects where the material, of which it is built, does not guarantee stability. Also, it will not be possible to legalise facilities located on public surfaces, and in this place it is already envisaged to build an aircraft facility, as well as those facilities located in the area of protection of cultural goods. The law provides for the use of construction permits to be issued with one solution, which has been the situation so far. However, if the facility does not have a valid permit and was built by 11 September 2009, it submits the request, and is required to hand over a copy of the building permit, and the authority is required to issue an application within eight days, if the commission issues a report that the facility can be used. However, what is missing from this article, which I have tried to amend, is that it is not precise when the competent authority forms this commission. Since it considers that this commission is needed from the very beginning of the application of this law, I have proposed by amendment that the commission be formed no later than 30 days from the start of the application of this law. I think it's high time for this area to be approached responsibly and precisely and become a state that no longer deals with the consequences, but to solve things in time and to remove problems in time. Furthermore, Articles 21 and 22. The draft law obliges the administration authority to provide a notification to the applicant for legalisation, and the applicant is obliged to complete his request within six months to what it lacks. However, if the documentation is complete, the competent authority shall give it 60 days to arrange its relations with the Building Land Fund, i.e. to pay compensation for the construction of city building land. I personally consider it 60 days long, so I suggested that this deadline be reduced to 30 days by amendment. I don't think there's any need for two months for something like this. After delivery of the contract, the competent authority shall issue a building permit within 15 days. As for the very compensation for the urban construction land, its height is determined by the local self-government units themselves. The height itself can vary depending on the degree of municipal equipment, from the urban zone in which the facility is located, including the very purpose of the facility. An interesting case is that in Belgrade, for example, some 17,000 legalisation applications were filed in 2003. After five years, a little more than 3% of the demands have been processed or issued. We can calculate that in the municipal budgets of local self-government there was a higher fee from administrative taxis when they applied, than they charged from the compensation for the construction of the city land. If they had tried and charged money for the city's construction land, local self-government could have invested a lot, arranged the municipal infrastructure, paved the streets, decorated the water network and sewerage, all from their own resources, returned to the citizens what they had invested, not to raise unfavourable loans and to owe our children and our grandchildren. What is the newspaper of this law is a record of the submitted, or issued solutions that will be available via the Internet. I personally hope that this record will be made available to the public, that no code or warrant will be required. Also, I would suggest that on the very site of the ministry be published some kind of table where monthly records will be kept across the cities of Serbia, as much as the requirement has been submitted, how many notices have been sent to supplement the items, how many building permits have been issued, how much the request has been rejected. It's simply that way we could monitor the implementation of this law. The law further prescribes integration to infrastructure and says those facilities built by 11 September 2009 can be temporarily connected to infrastructure facilities that are available to them in that space until the final solution is reached. However, if their request for any reason is rejected, the construction inspection will deliver to the public utility company an act that the company urgently excludes the facility from its network. The law also provides for very high penalties if the public utility does not act according to what the construction inspection has ordered. The fine itself is between a million and a half to three million dinars, and a fine of 100 to 200 000 dinars is foreseen for a responsible person in the company. As for the penalties prescribed by Article 36, I could say that it refers to one thing that is common, unfortunately, in our country, which is the silence of the administration. Article 36 says a fine of 25 to 50,000 dinars or a 30-day sentence will punish a person in the body unless an appropriate solution is issued within the legal time limit. Now I'm making a comparison. If citizens who have applied for legalisation do not complete their application within the legal time limit, their request will be rejected and the facility will later be torn down. However, if those working to enforce this law in the authority of the administration, they will be punished by a symbolic fine of 25,000 dinars. I say symbolic punishment not because I consider 25,000 dinars to be small, but I believe that it is these people sitting in the authorities of the administration who are working at the places where the building permits are issued, that is the ones that are this law and the brakes. From a personal example, I can say that in 10 years, since the first law on legalisation, i.e. the law that regulates this area in force, I have not heard one single case that one of the citizens went to the authority of the administration and that he had received all the information he needed to legalise, that he had gone and obtained all possible papers, that he had paid and concluded a contract with the Building Land Directorate, paid the compensation, and they immediately issued a solution. Believe me, I haven't heard a single case like this. On the contrary, every day we hear examples that citizens no longer know what their authorities are looking for. It's not often that for one thing in two different places than two different management employees get different answers. So each of these workers, the chief, or whatever I'd call them all there, give them the right to interpret the law in their own way. That's why I think that's exactly what you said, that nothing works for us, and that's why we're not even legalized. It's simple, I can guarantee responsibly, if these people in community administrations stay in their seats, I'm afraid the job will never be done. So I ask you, Minister, to use all your ingenuity and simply change these people, to send them to do something else, to do something where they won't do any damage. Maybe it wouldn't be bad if you checked the property cards of those people who've been in those places for a decade. See if it's possible that they could have had what they had on their salary. It wouldn't be bad, let's just say, if teams were to be formed to deal with corruption and corruption in this business, because I think there's a lot of it and it certainly needs to be checked. Also something that would be good for implementing this law is the introduction of a coll-center to which citizens would report not only corruption, but also many things that would not be clear to them during the implementation of the law itself. As far as your authority is concerned, I know it's not big about the warrant to the authorities of local self-government, but you can simply send them some recommendation to hire some new people, to hire some people who will do their job without corruption, without personal interest, because here we have a public interest, which is to arrange Serbia. Serbian citizens do not want to live in a country where corruption and urban chaos rule. Serbian citizens want to legalise their facilities. Let's get them through this law and let's make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23417	Thank you. The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23418	I want to thank the MP for one correct discussion. Here, I come here in front of you to give me a lesson, and I don't owe you one. Do you know who legalizes? Local administrations. You know urbanisms do. You know that according to the coalition agreements at the bar, people who run urbanism are stationed. What are you going to do now? I come into town and say, "You don't do anything urban," and there in the coalition, they say it's a coalition deal, their coalition falls, nothing touches, so it's agreed, etc. That's how it works for 20 years and more. And I come here and you scold me like a minister. Why? No one else's permission, for what I am responsible for as a minister, for large infrastructure facilities, for highways, large halls, factories, for trafo stations, for various transmission systems, etc., no one has waited more than 30 days, from domestic or foreign investors. No one had a problem. I'd like someone to call me who's been waiting more than 30 days for my building permit. It was all in time. But that's why somewhere down there, people won't legalize to hang them. I ask them why? We've now created teams and teams that will go through cities, educate them first and then replace them. I've asked all coalition partners to make a decision to replace all those who don't function. There are municipalities where nothing has been legalized in the last five years. They have no intention, nor do they do it. They don't care about that at all. It's all in the drawer. That poor people downstairs are waiting, coming, praying, begging. You can bring whatever law you want, they're slying in the city. So please help. You are the People's Messengers. Let's do one action together through Serbia, put this all in writing. It's a shame to get in the way. It's a shame to talk more about it. Believe me, whoever of you came to me asking permission for anything in the department's jurisdiction, he got. Sometimes in two, three days, and at worst up to 30 days, for the biggest factories. I was talking about 300m-euro factories here -- paperwork was completed in a month. But there's nothing I can do when there's someone at the bar who won't take the case to solve it. He won't refuse, at least we know the case was rejected and why he was rejected. As far as the permits are concerned, when he gets a building permit, he finishes the facility, no one asks for a used permit. I don't want to count here now, bridges. Well, the latest bridge here hasn't used permission since December of the month. No one's even looking for her. No one asked me to give it to him. They're not looking. They didn't even apply. (Alexander Senic, from the post: On November 25th last year, a request was submitted. I didn't get it yet. There's nothing to be done and the Commission won't let go. Here, the Tissa bridge opened three or four years ago. No paperwork. Nobody's looking. People think we made it, we let it in traffic, what kind of useful license, what do we need it for? Please help us work this out together. This is our mess. We've passed this law on legalization so we don't get in the way of strangers who came and bought companies. They tell us – give us some law to legalize as much as you want, just to legalize. They say -- people, give us that paper, we can't get money in our banks. So I'm asking you all to help with this job. Answer, we're sending in inspections to speed up this process. A lot depends on those local officials who spent their whole lives working at the bar. I thank you for your cooperation today. We have a big problem. You've all been correct. You've had some of your remarks and they're justified, but the culprits are some of the ones we have to change at some point. We can change laws, but if we don't change them, it's worth nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-01-0.u23419	Thank you. This is where we interrupt work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 81 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Maja Gojkovic, Borislav Pelevic and Dejan Radenkovic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of Mr Velimir Ilic, Minister of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, I have also called for the sittings to be attended by Aleksandra Damjanovic, assistant minister of construction and urbanism. We continue the principled search on the 1st item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE LEGALIZATION OF THE FACILITIES Does Nebojsa Zelenović want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
