ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16304	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in accordance with my promise and promise to the DS, every day, whenever the session doesn't start on time, at 10.00 p.m., I'll advertise Article 87. We're 23 minutes late today. I understood the delay when the Law on Railways was on the agenda, then you wanted to imitate working on the agenda and the way the railways work, but today on Monday, the first day, I see no reason. I thought now a new beginning, a new working week, would finally begin to respect the Rules of Procedure. There is Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. When she was president of the Assembly, not once a session was late, the quorum was secured at 10.00 hours and we started working at 10.00 hours. I'm aware of the fact that you don't pass system laws and that you don't know how to work. We wait more than 10 minutes, respecting the subsequent academic calling of Tomislav Nikolic, we wait 20 minutes, but we won't wait for more than 20 minutes. Every day we will advertise the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 87, as long as you do not buy alarms to the MPs and wake them up in time to begin work. I'd like to make a statement in the day of voting on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16305	Of course, we'll make a statement. Thank you. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Patient Rights Law. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Mirjana Dragas, Branislav Blažić, Ninoslav Girić, Aleksandar Radojevic, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, Vesna Rakonjac, Mileta Posukurica, Milan Knezevic, Predrag Mijatović, Zlata Đerić, Dubravka Filipovski, Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović, Sanda Rasković Ivić, Milos Aligrudić, Dusan Milisavljevic, Nebojša Zelenović, Vladimir Gordić and Srdjan Šajn, as well as the Committee for Health and Family Amendments. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Before moving to a decision on amendments, I remind you that MP Srdjan Shain has withdrawn the amendment to Article 2. It's a bill of law. I also remind you that Professor Dr Dusan Milisavljevic has written his amendment to article 19. It's a bill of law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MPs Branislav Blažić, Ninoslav Girić, Aleksandar Radojevic, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, Vesna Rakonjac, Mileta Poscurica, Milan Knezevic and Predrag Mijatovic together. The government and resolution committees have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 3rd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the People's Messenger Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16306	Although the signatories of the amendment do not want a word, I will use the time of the authorised representative of the group to comment on this article and the amendment. Therefore, Article 3 aims to guarantee the patient the same right to quality and continuous health care in accordance with his health status, generally accepted professional standards and ethical principles, in the best interests of the patient and with respect for his personal views. In addition, the patient's partner relationship as a recipient of health services and healthcare professionals is guaranteed, i.e. A doctor as a healthcare provider. Then it's about mutual trust, etc. This amendment tries to bring these several principles back to some general level and then, later, in the government's explanation, it is seen that the amendment is being rejected precisely because it is said that the right to respect for general human rights and values in healthcare is set out in Article 25. The health care law. You see, there's a key problem for both this law and this member. So that's the problem of applying the regulations we're making. It is not for free that the applicants of this amendment return the matter to the general level, because the instinctive need of man, and also of the MPs who see the regulations and see the life that runs around us, is that they do not have the confidence that further regulation, which is equally not applicable in practice, will be talked about the general regulation, that it will have its own echo in life. This is why he won't be able to have an echo in his life. How do you think a partner relationship is being built between a patient and a doctor, if the patient can't really choose his doctor? The right to choose a doctor is declared right in another law, not in this law, but the patient cannot really choose his doctor because all patients, or all citizens in this country, are not placed in the same position, and the attitude of the 1st member speaks of equality. How can we be in the same position if under the same conditions we cannot treat with whom we wish, under the same conditions of insurance? In fact, we have health insurance through the fund and the system doesn't work equally on the private and state sector. The private sector is completely excluded from communication with the fund. You yourself, Madam Minister, a few months ago, when we discussed amendments and additions to the health laws, said that a procedure was under way that patients or citizens would be able to obtain a drug in a private pharmacy. It didn't happen until today. It doesn't exist. So, since we can't choose a pharmacy where we can get a cure or health workers, because we're only referred to one sector, then there's no equality. What kind of trust can we talk about or a partner relationship, far away, when you look at the lines in front of a newly-sad clinical center that stretches hundreds of meters, where people wait all night and all day just to schedule an appointment or intervention that will be only a few months or maybe until 2016? We have 55,000 people on waiting lists for different interventions and often for very serious interventions, for operations. That's the reality in which we live and this reality with what's being declared, with Article 3, it has nothing to do with it. That's two completely different things. We told you this same story a few months ago and then we expressed hope that you would take steps to radically change a health system that does not work, which is unable to react, which is unable to give citizens the right to these declared values - the right to choose, the right to equal treatment. It's not there. There's no such thing as reality. If you have to, to make an ultra sound, and it's urgent that you pay in the same health care facility at night, because you can't afford the right to wait for it for three months or two, there's not a word about a partner relationship, or trust. This third law, which you wrote, is a dead letter on paper for a huge number of citizens. That's the essence of the story. That's you, I'm not saying you won't, but you haven't shown ambition so far, nor have you announced that you want to change. We made you a proposal then, I'm going to end this part of the story, and I don't know how you responded to that proposal. You know that health care is a constitutional obligation, that the Constitution guarantees health care and that the state is bound by the entire Republic to provide health care, but the mechanisms that the state will provide equal health care to all are left in law. I don't see a single reason why a country in crisis, which cannot, based on its own economy, preserve a single model as sustainable, is a model across the fund, I don't see any reason why the state in crisis situations can't help other models that are known in the world, which is exactly the partnership relationship between the private and state-owned sectors in the area of insurance, which would regulate state measures, where the state would prescribe ways and conditions under which insurance companies can provide a service from compulsory insurance. It means mandatory, not complementary. As you register cars for mandatory car insurance, so you can go to any insurance company and do it and do it, so you can do this. Do you realize how discharging a system is that it doesn't give signs of life, and where we can't even make injections for that system so that it can work? So that's what it's supposed to do, only then is this law, only then can Article 3 live. Only then can you convince fellow Members of the People's Parliament that the provision is too general and calls for Article 25. The health care law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16307	Ms. Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16308	Dear Members of the People, I would like to, especially to those who have written very good amendments to thank you. A significant number of amendments have been accepted, and we will comment on that during the debate, and it has really improved the text of the law, and our proposal is enriched by some quality ideas, which are in the spirit of the law that is before you. As regards the amendment on the agenda, I would like to say that availability as a right is contained in Article 6 of this Act, that humanity is contained in Article 9, and that physical and psychological integrity is in Article 25 as an inviolability of the physical and mental integrity of every person of the Health Protection Act, and that is the only reason why we did not accept the amendment, in fact, is the content of the amendment in the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16309	Dr. Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16310	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to draw attention to this amendment to Madam Minister for one more detail. This is beautifully imagined and sounds nice, it's pleasant and read. However, there is a mass of things, one part was carried out by Mr Aligrudic. However, there is another problem that arises, you are talking about the equality of patients. Patients are not equal if they live in different parts of Serbia, i.e. those living in the site of clinical centres are in any case privileged to patients living in other parts. Yes, patients living in parts of Serbia, or in cities that do not have their own clinical centre, in order to achieve a better quality health service or in order to go to a therapeutic level, must pass the commission in those cities. Very often these commissions are insurmountable. Simply, patients can't get through, because in most cases, they're commissions that are in the fund's headquarters, they're usually people who are out of practice. People who are very few, or have not been in practice at all, have not dealt with patients and often have no understanding of the needs of patients. They only think about the economic side, whether the money that is being collected in local self-government, etc. Spend, and very often prevent patients from achieving health care within some other clinical centres, only for these material reasons. So in that part, you should do something. Perhaps later in some sublegal act, that the availability of patients would also be health care within major clinical centres and a therapeutic institution. It happens, which is also with us, that we give the instructions, we're not able, let's say I work at a secondary health care facility, but the commission just refuses it. We find that we can't provide a health care service, and the commission and Dad in the fund, if I may say so, refuse to go to a therapeutic facility. Something has to be done that way. There's one more thing that stands, I'd say if I had time. How much time do I have, two minutes?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16311	You're using MPs' time so you have 80 minutes in total.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16312	Yes, I'll use one part of the parliamentary group and I'll report back to you later on for some amendments. We still have corruption in this case. It's that famous list of waitings that we haven't lifted, we haven't narrowed it down, and we know that in that case patients are unequal because those who are able to pay faster turn, faster perform health care, or even in private offices where the same doctors who work and in the state service work work. Therefore, patients are also discriminated in this way. Again and again and again I have appealed and now I appeal to you, end duality at the end of the work, because it is the basis of corruption. People, or doctors who work and healthcare professionals working in state institutions, should not accomplish and work in private offices because it is a property of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16313	Before we continue to work, allow me to welcome on your behalf and on behalf of the students of the Faculty of Law in Nis who are currently monitoring part of today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall. The word has Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16314	Mr. Mijatovic, you have raised very important questions from the domain of work and work relations and our initiatives are to this ministry in the spirit of what you were talking about. You've also pointed out something that treats a sublegal act that we must pass after this law. I think it's extremely important that we always give priority to the profession of administration. So, by means of a sublegal act in accordance with the content that you have shown, it is good that if the experts of one institution assess it in the regulatory procedure that it is necessary to treat the patient in a higher-ranking institution, a territorial institution, that no administrative decision may deny it. We'll do it in that style and bring in a sublegal act.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16315	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16316	Dear President, Mrs. Djukic Dejanovic, the amendment submitted by LSV, I think it shows that it is good because it has responded to him and MPs from other parties, or MP Aligrudic, I thank him for that, and also to MP Mijatovic, who is a doctor by profession, and perhaps sees differently the situation in healthcare than we who are sometimes patients. The problem with this respect for human rights in health care is alarming so far and should be given more attention. I think by accepting this amendment not only will you respect some of the right of patients but also the general human rights so that patients can choose where they will be treated, who will treat them. That it will stop, perhaps even corruption, because of the lists of appointments, waiting for the commission is kind of spreading corruption, and that might solve some things in health care. So by perhaps other MPs have responded to the amendment, I ask you to reconsider it once more.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16317	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Gordic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Vladimir Gordic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16318	Dear President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my amendment to Article 3 of this Law went in the same direction as the LSV amendment colleague. Given that my colleagues have already provided an explanation, I would take the opportunity to thank the Minister and the Government for adopting four amendments to this law and for having heard of constructive objections and proposals from all participants in the debate, which certainly helped to make the draft law a significant improvement. Article 3 of this Act also promotes the patient’s partner relationship as a recipient of services in the health care system and healthcare professionals as a service provider. Since this law that we are now discussing regulates the area of the rights and obligations of the patient, as one of the participants in this partnership relationship, I hope that the adoption of this law will speed up the introduction into the procedure of two more laws which, if we want to be serious, should fully regulate this area, which is the Law on Doctorial Activity and the Health Care Act. You will certainly have the support of the DS Parliament Club. When I speak of the interest of patients, we must stress that they are not only protected by the law on their rights. First of all, they protect themselves with a good organisation of health care and health care. The right patients are protected by the ability to receive medical assistance in the best possible way within the optimal time limit. Therefore, in order for this law and the rights declared therein not only to remain a list of good wishes, it is necessary to enter bravely but in a sense into serious and deep reforms of the health system. Unfortunately, I think that this limited-term government has no power and no political will to deal with problems and that the health system will also be used in the next period to buy social measures and cheap political points. I must stress that the DS has a solution to the accumulated health problems and I would like to refer you to the DS programme for exiting the crisis that provides concrete solutions to the area of health as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16319	National MP Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16320	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 127 and Article 128. In that regard, we had one such educational measure this morning, Mr Milivojevic, who warned us not to be 10 minutes late or how late it was. In doing so, Mr Milivojevic forgot, when entering the hall, that, under Article 127(1), the MP was obliged to insert his message card into the parliamentary unit. Let's forgive him. However, after the whole lecture, following a lecture held here on morality, MP Srdjan Milivojevic, for who knows which time he went out, left the card in his MP's unit, but this time disguised it, by folding the system and putting the Rules of Procedure on the card so as not to see that he left the card in the MP's unit, falsely showing his presence and, at this point, walking around Belgrade, perhaps in Thessaloniki, perhaps somewhere in Turkey, he may have gone on vacation. Anyway, as you can see, at this point he may be in Krusevec, he may be driving a gondola, but at this point he's gone. I'm asking to see if MP Milivojevic is in the MP's unit at this time, if he has broken Article 128 harshly. The Rules of Procedure also showed themselves that at the quorum, he was sitting in the O.R., and that, as we can see right now, he was not only present and not only forgot his card, but obviously wanted to cover his absence from the Assembly by putting the Rules of Procedure over the card so as not to see what he had done. I wouldn't advertise this if we couldn't hear the moral sermons coming from that bench, so it would be a turn to determine whether this, moral size, is currently in the O.R. and if she did what I said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16321	I ask all MPs that when they leave the hall, they take their card with them, as it is, of course, also a parliamentary obligation. Mr. Milivojevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16322	Mr. President, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which is exactly what the MP says is required to carry his card with him. I was just going to look for a video showing Marian Risticevic, who steals my card and understands its temptation, to approach my card again, to secure the quorum in the morning. I'm sorry he doesn't resist temptation, but I'm sorry there's no video, so let's see how he steals my card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16323	We move to the amendment by adding new members 5a and 5v, which was submitted by MP Vladimir Gordic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sandra Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16324	Thank you. The title above this Article 6 reads - the right to access to health care. The bill states that the patient has the right to access and quality health care in accordance with his medical condition and within the limits of the material opportunities of the health care system. With the amendment, we propose to delete this last part of the sentence, i.e. to delete it – and within the limits of the material possibilities of the health care system. We believe that if this attitude remains the way it was suggested that nothing will essentially change. So this is a practical simulation of rights, i.e. that there will be a greater availability of healthcare because, otherwise, this is one declarative position, but if you say that availability, health care will be available and more quality, then I mean more accessible and more quality, the net that is at this point, because we're passing a law that speaks of patients' rights if it stays this way absolutely nothing will change. You've said, in your explanation, that's why you're limiting the whole law to some other laws that are valid, which is the Health Security Act, the Health Insurance Act. I am aware that sometimes there has to be harmonisation, but then the question arises why would this law be passed in the first place and why would these laws be older. I'm not a lawyer, but this is a new law that regulates some other rights and should improve the existing situation. You keep bringing us back to that some of the other laws are regulated differently, so this law can't do that. So if it remains that availability depends on the material state of the system then absolutely nothing will change there. I also refer to the European Charter of Patients' Rights where access rights are established, which means that each patient and individual have the right to access health services without restrictions on this right. It's true that we haven't ratified this convention yet. I'm sorry that it would be one of the most important conventions to ratify in this house, so unless you accept this amendment to know both patients and all users that nothing will essentially change much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16325	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16326	So, the right of all patients not only to ensure the availability of humanity, to quality health care is regulated by this law, if we hadn't written that these rights are achieved in the context of existing financial potentials, it would have been -- we're writing good wishes. So we have respected the attitude of those who have suggested that we need to say that these rights, however, are some real rights that come true here in Serbia, in our system. The fact that we are referring to some laws, I would like to say that they are not some, are basic, basic, system-based laws that regulate health care in Serbia – the Health Insurance Act and the Health Protection Act and all the issues that are regulated by these laws, in fact, we did not specifically single out and regulate. We've singled out only those 12 rights that concern patients' rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16327	Replica. National MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16328	I'm sorry if I used the word of some laws. It's clear to me that these are the system laws for this area, but I do, and this law that you've proposed, which speaks of patients' rights, I really feel like a basic law that would have to be basic and system law when it comes to patients' rights. So I'm saying I can't see, now this is going to be a law that's less important and it's going to have to be harmonised because there are some laws, or these two that are more important. I see this law as basic and it should be.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16329	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16330	The lawyers say this is a lex specialis, not a system law, and I think they say it well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16331	The word is Dr. Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16332	Dear President, Minister, honourable colleagues and fellow Members, because of colleagues who did not attend the meeting last time when we spoke in principle, in Article 6, if you go to read the sentence by sentence, word by word – the patient has the right to access and quality protection within borders, ultimately, material opportunities. It's a free translation of something. So we can't have a magnet in every village, we can't have that and that in every place, etc. Very precise is said in the first sentence, the first point – available health care. In the second position of Article 6, the place of residence is mentioned. It's logical that there can't be a scanner in every village or any other apparatus. So these two laws regulate patients' rights. One is the harmonisation of laws with a number of European and world statutes, which is very important, and ultimately – raising and regulating the rights and obligations and patients and insurance companies. In that context, I don't think this member understood properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16333	The word is Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16334	Thank you. The fact that this amendment has been rejected, I can accept it. However, I draw the attention of the Minister, later, when this law is read, that little remains unclear and I think attention should be paid. My colleague read it a little while ago, so I was thinking if I should take it. Be careful how it can be interpreted – in the process of achieving health care, the patient has the right to have equal access to health services without discrimination against financial opportunities, housing, etc. Whose financial options are this about? You should have written that. Because we can understand it as if it were the patient's financial opportunities, not the financial possibilities of the health system. Since this is the law, I think it had to be more precise, because it could lead to a doubt about whose financial possibilities it was. I understand from this that it's about the financial possibilities of the health system, but it can be understood as being the financial possibilities of the sick or the patient. So it should have been added to the comma and said – the financial opportunities of the health system or the circumstances in which the patient is located. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16335	National MP Snezana Stojanovic Plassic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16336	Thank you. Comrade Mijatovic, I think you've misread this second part. These financial opportunities really concern patients' financial opportunities, as they are talking about a ban on discrimination. Therefore, patients should not be discriminated against where they live or their financial opportunities to access the system. And the first position of this member is about the financial possibilities of the system. I think that's just fine. Otherwise, we'd set fire to a demagogue. So if we were to determine that every patient has the right to access at any moment any medical service he needs or wants, I think it would be a list of good wishes, as the minister said, or one demagogue propaganda. I believe it must be said here that we must behave within the frameworks of financial opportunities, because it is clear that not every patient at all times can have access to the clinical center unless it is necessary or simply not possible, or, as a colleague has already pointed out, cannot in every place that cardiosurgery exists or cannot exist in every place that there is a magnet. So I think we should all be reasonable when we approach the health care system, that we understand that leaving out in Serbia for health care is not small, but gross national income is small and that's why the health system is poor. So at this point, the state of the health system is like that. In principle, this article has practically turned into a debate on the quality of the health system. I don't think there's any need for that, and I think it's such a restriction that it's completely satisfactory. So, we have one member, or one member's position, that speaks of the full right of patients to available and quality health care, with respect to material limitations, but we also have another view that any discrimination of patients is prohibited and that patients in both Belgrade and Black grass must have equal rights to access the health system within those limits that are at our disposal. I think it's very clearly defined in this member of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16337	Thank you. Mr. Mijatovic, did you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16338	I don't think Mrs. Plassic understood me or understood a member. Be careful, in the first position of this member, it is said – the patient has the right to access and quality health care within the limits of material opportunities. The next member is no longer talking about it, but said – in the process of accomplishing, so we are no longer the right but to achieve health care in relation to material possibilities. That's two different things. One is the right and the other is the achievement. Therefore, it should have stressed whether financial opportunities are in relation to the health system or the patient's financial opportunities. I think I understand this member better than you and I don't think he's clear enough and can be abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16339	Thank you. Mrs. Plassic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16340	Let those who have made the bill judge. So, I claim that I understand both you and the law, and I claim that this second position refers to the patient's financial opportunities and that the first position refers to the material possibilities of the system. Please, let the Minister say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16341	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16342	I have to rephrase a colleague who recommended that I read a word by word and sentence by sentence, in order to realize at all that I didn't understand a member. I usually do that, I read the word by word, so I get to the line and somehow I figure out what it's about. I think I understood very well what they were working on here, even though I wasn't there when the debate was in principle, because at that time I was in a much more important place than what the Assembly was then, but that's already the way anyone thinks about it. I'm going back to what I was talking about. I don't think there's gonna be much going on in patients' rights at all if there's a limit like this. So we're absolutely witnesses. First of all, someone here said our system couldn't handle it. No, it can't, because in this system, for a very long time, non-domestic business and spending money on things that shouldn't be spent on health care and health insurance, but that's another story. Also, I understand that there can be no cardiosurgeon, no scanner, etc. in every village. I guess this law is there to protect the rights and those people who don't live in cities where clinical centres exist, so there's some procedure, there's guidance, etc. I guess it's about protecting the rights of all those who live outside the cities. Besides, it's said in another article there can be no discrimination. That's why I think I understand this article very well, and I'm still standing in the way that this amendment should be accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16343	Thank you. The word is Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16344	I just want to make one thing clear. When I told my colleague at the beginning of the discussion to read the word by word carefully, she finally said what I wanted to hear – that she understood that there was no magnetic resonance or cardiosurgery in every village. I didn’t quite realize that there was another place more important than the congregation on that day, since the congregation is the largest home in which some things are discussed, and it isn’t the street. If you remember, since 2000, this law has been promised by many governments to be put into this assembly home and for the first time, Slavica Djukic Dejanovic has put it as a bill, to care for patients' rights. You are definitely, reading the word by word, and you get the meaning of demagogy to be realistically and correctly understanding of this member of the law, where not every patient in every small place can get the same service as in Belgrade, but it is guaranteed by this law the right to achieve it, as you have finally concluded, by reading the word by word, to get the instructions from Black Trava or Babusnica, the system of instructions, to reach Nis or already some other institutions and to get what this law guarantees him, the right to equality, to achieve everything without discrimination, that without financial opportunities, what the colleague says, means the patient, but the financial opportunities of the institution. I repeat for the 49th time, not for you, I am not speaking to you, I say out loud. Here, a fellow with a smile is looking forward to my talking... (President: Time. Here I go. In Sweden, there's a year of magnetic resonance. In Denmark, there's a four-mile-long scanner. Don't talk demagogy. This is a real law, a real story that tells about the rights of patients and dots.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16345	Thank you. National MP Donka Banovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16346	Thank you. I'd say that you, colleagues, have a desire to start a fight here with recommendations that you're glad or that you think that you're glad that I've read the word by word and that I finally understood. I don't think that should be the level of discussion. You're referring to an example from Sweden now? I know, and in other countries, it's been waiting a long time because it's not usually some common procedure. God forbid we all have to go to a magnetic resonance. Some people spend their whole lives healthy, to say they don't even have to go, but that's why I don't believe they're waiting for a year and more of an eye cataract surgery in Sweden. We know that we have a waiting list of 55,000 patients, which are even scheduled for 2016, so I think this discussion should be a discussion in a different tone. As for where we are, where the DS MPs were the day of this discussion, then I'll tell you where we were. We were at a gathering that organized four municipalities from the north of Cosmet. We were honored to attend this meeting and send a message not to agree with what was signed and signed in Brussels.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16347	Thank you. National MP Zoran Radovanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16348	The Honorable Chairman, Minister, did not start the discussion, or the argument with you, as you interpreted it, but I just wanted to point out that you started demagogue and now you speak much more practically. Even in the end, you said you didn't know where the DS MPs were that day. You wanted to tell the DSS probably. I think my colleague reacted to your incorrect sentence, too. So I'm trying to educate you as a colleague, as a junior colleague. So, you read slowly, you look slowly, you throw out the demagogy. A law that has never been in the congregation before has been put before the congregation. Can I just ask you to turn your coworkers and colleagues down a little bit? This is the same story as yesterday on one of the shows...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16349	Mr. Radovanovic, please do not take offense to the MPs. That's all I ask.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16350	What did I say offensively, excuse me? The chairman, I apologize, what did I say offensively? (President: Continue. I really didn't understand you. I want to apologize if I offended the letter. So last night was spoken, for example, untrue, and that's why I'm talking about demagogy. I don't like to listen to the demagogue that, for example, in Nis of three machines, two appliances don't work. That's not true. Two machines work for air therapy. As you can see, the government has accepted the grotesque amendment very correctly, with an explanation that drinks water, which is understandable, so there is no need to discuss it. If, as the chairman says, I caused or offended a colleague, I apologize. I really don't know what I've offended.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16351	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16352	I'm advertising Article 107. The MP also insulted Ambassador Banovic and all of us by saying that we do not understand and that he needs us to guide us how we will behave, to educate us, to read the word by word, sentence by sentence and everything else. About how much he reads and how he works in this congregation, you can see. He knows the public, too. He sees and knows who the MP is, who the MP group is, and what the results of the parliamentary groups are, and I wouldn't go in there. It's just that you should have warned him sooner, because we don't need an education here. He wants to educate someone, he's got his own party. There are personnel in his party to educate. Perhaps these directors at Galennica should have been educated before they stole, not to damage Serbia's state because of what they did and there would have been a lot more money for scanners both for treatment and health care. Don't lecture us here and tell us about demagogy, because you have no right to do that. You're here talking about health care, about equality? What equality? What equality did you give us? I would ask you to refrain from such things and return to discuss the subject of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16353	Thank you. (Zoran Radovanovic, from town: Replica. ) The word has Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16354	The right of insured persons to health care is in line with the plan of the Republic Health Insurance Fund, which consists of three components: first - insurance needs, therefore, health needs, second – financial opportunities; third – priorities. Perhaps that would be the answer to some of the dilemmas we had in earlier discussions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16355	Thank you. National MP Zoran Radovanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16356	The Honorable Minister explained this part of the amendment itself. You insulted, dear colleagues, expressed yourself to the SPS MPs. I did not promise in 2000 that he could look me in the eye of whoever he wanted and that that year when I came to power, and I did not count, but I set fire to the room where the ballots were and I did not promise that Serbia-Montenegro would remain, Kosovo will stay together and billions of investments will arrive. That's what the one we can look into has promised.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16357	Mr. Radovanovic, come back on the subject, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16358	I'm sorry. You're denying me the right to say so. My colleague insults me in a way that isn't cultural. He's talking about Galenika, and I can't answer his simple question. Does this count in my two minutes or not, yours and my polemics?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16359	Don't talk to me, get back on the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16360	I return to the subject, the insults my colleague has expressed towards my parliamentary group. As a colleague reads the paper or writes something right now or does what he does, neither do I, nor listens carefully, the police minister and prime minister of this country gave the same question an answer – I arrested. Therefore, I ask you, in front of you, who throws it away, not to throw it away. I'm trying to talk to a colleague. In Galennica, like everywhere, everyone who's guilty of these acts will be processed and you know who did it, and what you haven't done and where you've been, that's your business.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16361	Thank you. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16362	About this famous burning of the congregation, we came to power by the will of the people, and you tried to steal that will and then the people rebelled and rose up to protect their will. When we wanted to discuss the will of the people, the Prime Minister of Kostunica returned to the people in 2008 to see who would receive support and we went into opposition. We weren't hiding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16363	Mr. Michael, please return to the topic. Although you're replicating, you've gotten a little too far from the topic, so try to get back on topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16364	Right on the line, I have the right to talk about what the predecessor was talking about. So we came to power by the will of the people. Since 2000, life has certainly been better than before 2000. Serbia has touched that date, about the European Union, which you are talking about thanks to the change in power. Serbia has moved differently to develop as an open and democratic society and a democratic state. In this House, such controversy and debates can be conducted, as they are today, thanks to the changes that have occurred, and to the change of government and everything else. So I wouldn't go any further into it. As far as this law is concerned, it is simply necessary to apply until the end the standards that exist, resolutions, declarations, all signed agreements, international rules, then apply them to the end and apply them in principle, and not in some part to give up, in some part to do. It is necessary to strive to enter this debate, as we do, through many amendments, through our debates without any demagogy. We don't deal with demagogy, we deal with this law. We are simply surprised that someone is trying MPs of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who not only in this debate, but also in all the other debates are approaching very specifically, with concrete and good proposals, someone is trying to call us, to serve demagogy. I think it's personal for me, and for all our other MPs, it's offensive, because we've never done that before, nor will we work in this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16365	Thank you. The word is made by MP Zoran Radenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16366	Article 107, paragraph 2, is injured where it is said that as a lack of facts and an assessment relating to the private life of other persons. An esteemed colleague earlier in his address spoke of other persons who were in Galenika, insulting them. Since there are a lot of lawyers in your MP group, it means that someone who isn't convicted isn't guilty and until proven guilty...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16367	Mr. Radovanovic, since you abuse the Rules of Procedure, I will not allow you to replicate. You can only talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16368	How am I supposed to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure when he said it was offensive, and now I'm trying to explain what's offensive?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16369	I'm the only one who can answer if the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. I won't allow you to continue to replicate. If you wish, I will answer you or if you wish to take a vote in the day to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16370	Well, I'm not gonna talk about it because we didn't understand each other. I fought against demagogy, since it's always about demagogy to keep it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16371	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16372	In this article, to get back to it, it says that the patient has the right to access and quality health care and says – within the limits of the material capabilities of the health care system. That's what we asked to erase, this sequel. Because it's completely too high. Of course, when someone has the right to access and quality health care, we are not going beyond the limits of the possibility of providing that protection, but within certain limits of possibilities. You see, what does a man say when he writes like this and what he says about himself and his essence? Those who write the text try to justify themselves in advance and fence themselves from a corrupt system. I'm asking you within the limits of whose potentials are material? The kind that pulls, digs and lashes? Is it within the limits of material possibilities related to those 12 million missing? Is it within the limits of the material possibilities of those untested and drained funds from the Fund over all these years, is it within these limits of opportunity? Is it within the limits of the ability of those people who, if they had justice and rights in the state, would have to be on the defendant's bench for social theft? Is it within the limits of their capabilities? What is it that remains outside of their ability to pull, tap and bark which can be the subject of protection available and quality health care of the patient? What's that? That's what you tell me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16373	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Jugovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16374	I'm giving up because you didn't give me your word on time, because I wanted to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, member 104, in an earlier discussion between the SPS colleagues and the DSS. Since this is not current and since Milos Aligrudic continued his presentation, if the same session takes place again as it was before, I wanted to appeal to you that you are not the only one who can give the Rules of Procedure and say whether he is injured or not. You cannot specify a replica theme because Article 104 does not specify what the replica theme is. Therefore, I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure exactly as the other MPs, because you are only here at this moment when Nebojsa Stefanovic, the first among the equals, is not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16375	Mr. Jugovic, I really apologize for not giving you my word on time, but the same person who pleases you because the list of speakers is full that if you report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure you raise the Rules of Procedure to know that you have an advantage over the other MPs. The next word came from MP Aleksandar Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16376	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, regarding the availability of healthcare, I would like to say a few words. I think it's well imagined, but it's hardly feasible because of the Health Protection Act that doesn't allow it, that's the financial part that's impossible to correct. Let's just say you have a situation now that the King's patient gets sick in Chakotay, no one should come near the doctor as if he's been ill with a Martian because no one in the King in the same rank is going to write the instructions and it's going to be certified. By the time you determine whether it's urgent or not, a man can do a lot of things. Even if he changes his residence, which he paid for his insurance in another area, the district branches cannot be freed from the payment of that health care. I recently had an example of a man who was vitally endangered who had to go to the ward because of an embolism trumpet. He wasn't from the Chechak branch. He was not obliged to pay for this treatment until the moment when he was under threat. The moment he was on his request, because he felt uncomfortable lying there while his sisters called him who was going to pay for the treatment, signed the list and went out, it was not respected, but a respected financial service that asked for the treatment to be paid. So a team of his friends came and raised money to pay for the treatment. Let's just say that you have a situation that also happened recently where a patient came to visit Kosovo Mitrovica in another city and had a discussion there and had to be transferred to a hospital in Belgrade. In order to physically transport to Belgrade, his branch from Kosovo Mitrovica must verify a directive that someone else will write in Cačka and take to Kosovo Mitrovica. Practically technically completely inconclusive. The same situation is happening with a selected doctor who is obliged to write a warrant for the transport of a patient who is hospitalized, but has no possibility to drive himself to his place of residence, because only a selected doctor can give a warrant for transportation to a sanity vehicle. So I think that this place of residence is a terrible wreck in this law, and I think it's gonna be hard to enforce this patient's right to available health care only if he lives a mile outside of his home branch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16377	Just to let you know that I have the order in which the MPs applied. Mr. Zelenovic is the first, Olgica Batic, Gordana Komic. That's the order. The word is Zoran Zelenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16378	Your Honor, Minister, we are now on Article 6 of this Law on Patients' Rights and I would just like to point out a few things about this amendment. Let's get something out of the way before we move on to talk about the amendments. I didn't understand you very well when you said that. I understood by passing this law the most well-intentioned possible ZZS parliamentary group has written 11 amendments wanting to fix this very important law. You've adopted three or four, that's very good, and I'm grateful for that. You have adopted various amendments to the opposition's MPs and positions, I also commend you for that. That's very nice. I understood that we are making a lex specialis here, so we are making a new law out of which some reforms will come out – reforms of the health care system and reforms of health insurance. You just said this is a Lex special. Now it's not clear to me whether by changing, or by making this law, in which we've all become equally involved, a lot of us here have written amendments, tried to fix something. Are we now making a step that you will take further into life, and we will now have more functional and accessible health care? If so, I will continue to participate actively in this and support it, but if not, then tell us now, so that we know how to continue to deal with all the other amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16379	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16380	Systemic laws regulate the health care system, and this is a law that actually treats patients' rights issues. The lawyers say that this type of law cannot be considered systemic, but whether certain provisions will oblige us to change the system laws, which is a tendency for all of us, but in some more realistic circumstances. Was it possible in seven months or five, as far as we've worked on this law, to do systemic changes to the law, or should we all think together about what we must systematically do in line with the real possibilities of changing and making sure that we are making reforms that we started in certain segments? The health system cannot be reformed overnight. All we have to do, with all the comments that something ugly is happening in health care, has actually initiated the Ministry of Health to speed up the adoption of this law that only we in the region have. We think that the rights that have already been regulated and by adding new rights we protect every man in this country, because every man is also a patient potentially. Therefore, we cannot say that the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights is a system law, that it is a law that changes the system. He regulates the rights of patients, in terms of a whole set of health measures proposed by experts. The point of the law is one partner relationship, raising the awareness of Serbian citizens that they themselves must participate in repairing their own health status, sharing the right to protect all of us so that our health is better and especially measuring the egal relationship between therapists and patients in all these procedures that are on the agenda of prevention, diagnosis, therapy and rehabilitation of everyday practice in health care. I can't just say that we've passed one system law that will change the system that touches all those questions that you rightly ask. Under the laws of this law, we will regulate exactly this, through the education of all of us to do better. I know that there are a lot of objections, that we are all the most sensitive when it comes to health care, but I also take this opportunity not to associate pesoriatic terms with health systems and healthcare professionals, because when you do analysis and when you test public opinion, what patients or at least the largest number of patients are satisfied with, that is, the largest number of healthcare professionals and experts on patients themselves. Many things in the organization are not good, many things in missing resources compromise work, but I really think that health as a system deserves, with all the faults and objections that even sometimes are manipulated, a positive assessment of all of us, because in the end we still have the greatest confidence in this health system that we have to repair and try to repair is this law that, if applied, it would indeed be improving the health status of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16381	Thank you. The word has a National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16382	I'll be brief. That's what I'm talking about. We have this article 6. He's the key, he's the first right we bring here right now, so we guarantee all patients. But if we don't give them the right to be available, then we haven't done anything. It's inevitable there has to be a system change. If we recognize this right as it stands in the text of the law, we must change the system laws. Now I'm asking, I don't think anyone in this room knows the answer, and what's our system? What's the system that we want to change now? If we have the right to access health care on equal terms, then it must be the same in Zaguvica both in Sjenica and Belgrade. It can't depend on the will of a man who runs a local self-government or city council. That's what I repeat and drag through the discussions we had during some period. You must then take care of health policy. Make those rules, change the system, then it'll be all the same for the same money. That's what I'm looking for. I think it's something that all the people here in the O.R. will agree on. It has to be the same, and whether it's secondary or therapeutic, and beyond, where the clinical center, and where it's not, that's the next thing. But what's basic, which is the most accessible and closest to the citizens, must be the same everywhere. If we do this, if you do it, then we will have the same health care all over Serbia and then we will fulfill the right to humanity and the right to information and everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16383	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16384	Thank you. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am very pleased that you have finally returned to the agenda and that I have been given the right to speak after six times. In fact, I'm glad we're discussing the details of Article 6 today and the current amendment under discussion. Article 6 reads - the right to access healthcare is not the right to burn down the Assembly and is not the right to have access to the theft of Galenika. Article 6 makes it very clear that the patient has the right to access and quality health care in accordance with his medical condition and within the limits of material opportunities from the health care system. The DSS MPs have proposed an amendment which I believe the ministry, or the authorised promoter, should respect it, because if you have the right to access and quality protection, it absolutely excludes, or deny, the limits of the material opportunities of the healthcare system. What's the biggest problem here is, first of all, part of the ruling majority said this is a system law. The Minister just said it's not a system law. The problem is that, and I'll agree with the minister, it's not a system law. Then there was going to be something different in order. Then it was meant to go in the direction of passing a whole new system law, primarily the Health and Health Insurance Act, and then to pass the Patients' Rights Act. This is how I fear that this Article 6 and the right to access health care will remain, unfortunately, just a dead letter on paper. After all, there must be a question first of all that the isolation in our country for health care is miserable and the question arises – what are the material options of the health care system in general? I don't think there are any years back in this country, they don't exist by the theft of the current minister's predecessors, so you can immediately remove that "material" epithet. That's what the decades-old health minister showed, so that the health care system in our country has been destroyed for years by the former health ministry. There is no right to the availability of healthcare to any of our patients. It's, unfortunately, at this point in time some imaginary right. They repeat what I said, when in a member like this, which is primarily contradictory, then some of this has to be excluded, because one part of this attitude denies itself. If you have available and quality legal protection, then you deny borders, especially material health care options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16385	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16386	Availability and quality implies that in every home of health each of us can reach a professional team and if an analysis is performed in this health home, it must be performed as well as at the Clinical Centre in Belgrade, that is quality. Therefore, the quality of work must not depend on the level of health care, whether it is a primary, secondary or therapeutic health institution. Professional doctrine and expertise oblige expert teams to do what they do, to do what they do by the rules of the profession. In exactly the same way, tonsilectomy must be done professionally - the operation of tonsilectomy both in the general hospital and in the special hospital, if there are such, where it is done, and in the Clinical Centre of Serbia. So what is done must be done in quality and in accordance with the rules of the profession. Quality implies it, and standards oblige us, if we respect them, that when a patient enters the House of Health, all those services that are done in the House of Health. Otherwise, we have a new service nomenclature, and you'll be informed soon, that proposal is on the government. So everything that's done has to be done strictly by the rules of the profession. It does not mean that quality should be higher for the same health care service at a higher level of health care. It would be terrible if the appendix were to operate better in Belgrade, at the Clinical Centre, than in Tutin, at the hospital.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16387	Thank you. Olga Batic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16388	Minister, in principle, I'll agree with what you said. I wish it was really like that in practice, but unfortunately, it's not. The quality of work is catastrophic. When I spoke in the debate in principle, I showed you how to do business and what health care and service quality is provided by the House of Health where I come from. Not at all. If you do not have a doctor selected, you wait two to five days for the next selected doctor. If you have cancer, you're treated for bronchitis. What kind of health care is that? Is that the quality of work we're talking about today? The military-medical academy in October 2010 did not have the usual gauze and bandage bandages. Is that the quality of work? Are these the necessary medical care? I think we do demagogue all the time here. Here neither the quality of work nor health services, nor anything related and starting with the letter "z", actually, in the country of Serbia, health care does not exist. I also said who knocked him down. Multi-decade health minister, the one involved in vaccine affairs. One for whom he has never been here in this National Assembly has adopted a survey committee to examine his jurisdiction. Of course you've come to the congested state, but you have to do something to make some steps that will make it better. For now really about health care, it can be every ordinary citizen who tells you, health care, quality of services, quality of work is disastrous. We're out of X-rays. You can't install a stent. At the gastroasty, the one who comes from Surdulica to Belgrade, because it's done here, and can't do it in another municipality, has to wait a month. A few days ago, a man of cancer died because he couldn't have been done with a mere gastronomy for two weeks. How long have you been waiting for the port to be installed? How long have you been waiting for the canal? Is that what these medical centers are providing you for? No, that's what you pay out of your pocket. You pay everything out of your pocket. About obsolescence and technology of our medical equipment, I won't even talk about it. (President: Time. In this country, health care does not exist and we must first reconcile with such a fact. That's what they're going to tell you, get out on the street and ask some ordinary citizen, and he'll tell you. (President: Time. ) I am an authorised promoter Let me finish. [[President: No, this is a replica. I can't give it to you, you have to wait for the order.]] (President: here you go, but just faster. In January of the month of the flu epidemic, no one knew what was treating you. They've been ticking you all over the place. Is that the quality of work? Is that health care? I don't think so, and everybody knows it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16389	Thank you. The next pay phone is a folk letter from Gordana Komic. (Snezana Stojanović Plassic, from the place: Replica. Replica? Whose exposure? (Snezana Stojanović Plassic, from the post: At the presentation of the previous speaker. She didn't mention you. (Snezana Stojanović Plassic, from the post: She mentioned the previous minister, and I am an authorised representative. No, I won't give you a replica for that. National MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16390	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. The theme of our debate is Article 6 with the edge of the right to access health care. I will read the first position, which reads – the patient has the right to access and quality health care, in accordance with his health condition, and within the limits of the material opportunities of the health care system. To try and contribute to a comment on the context of how we see this first attitude here. A number of us present this first attitude as if we who are poorer, or living in poorer parts of Serbia, will not have any health care, which I think is contrary to the idea of this law, because we are establishing patients' rights advisers, and even in order for someone to dare, because of their poor material status, or abuse of rights, deny some quality health care, that they must then begin the procedure under this law. I don't think my contribution will change that attitude, that this attitude is read, as if only where more developed and richer municipalities are, there will be quality health care available to people, and where there isn't, they won't. I don't think we have the right to read this first attitude, especially if we agree with what the minister has shared with us, which is that this law can produce good consequences in system laws. Why am I saying that? Because each of us who has been employed and works for 35-40 years, in the Fund, on average, about 800 euros, which is about 30,000 euros for the working century. Every one of us. Some of us are lucky and do not use any health care system at all. It's those steel health people who don't need anything. Some need not the 30,000 euros they have paid or paid for their normal lives, but much more. I think that this amount and this view of material possibilities would have to be both ministers and many of us a reason to develop a debate on why we have two funds? What's going on in that fund, both of them? Why are our public finances such that these two funds are indirect beneficiaries of the budget? Try the vault to see. Let's try it here when we get the budget. This is about ten years to take every chance when we talk about health care, and I suggest we think about whether we've made a good solution, that each of us pays about 30,000 euros for the course of work, and that we get news from the fund that there's no money for health care. There won't be, but money's being run badly. The second part of the context I comment on is obviously that we are not getting quality healthcare because – what, doctors are not good for us? They don't treat us well? It's also a topic for counselors established by the same law. I also agree that there is a reason for changes in the system laws, because I don't think it's a good thing that a small number of doctors, who certainly behave unethically and don't know enough people, end up a college by accident, and you see that there's nothing wrong with it and that there's no idea, but what to do to it, has a college, so, to talk about standards, along with medical chambers, along with, hopefully, an ethical committee that's been established and to see how our first healthcare workers can be partners, to really be good material opportunities and quality services. These two things this member introduces, which will be dealt with by a counselor. Our context that if they're poor, there won't be any health care and stereotypes of how we should all be treated in Belgrade, I think it's a topic for changes to system laws. The second position of this member to whom the amendment has been submitted is that in the process of achieving health care, the patient has the right to equal access to health care, without discrimination regarding financial opportunities, place of residence, type of illness or time of access to health care. This is a very clear member. You can't discriminate against someone because you're giving them one of these properties. Discrimination occurs when you treat someone based on their personal qualities, as he does not deserve. The disease is a personal quality. You don't choose to be sick. You must not be discriminated against by a disease that is your personal property, such as your personal skin color, or gender, or anything else that represents a property that you do not choose. If we could choose, none of us would have a disease as a personal property. In relation to the financial opportunities of those who come to you with a personal nature of disease, it is also read here that those who have no money will not be treated, where, by the same law, we introduce a counselor who needs to correct such things. My comment in this second view is that often when we talk about laws that introduce certain rights, we talk more often about the possibility of abuse of these rights than we want to think about – how do we apply those rights as it says? It's our experience from this congregation. When we introduced domestic violence, the main observation was that now women of anger would report that they would be beaten. When we've changed family law, now women or old or any of the anger will drive husbands, brothers out of the apartment. When we passed anti-discrimination law, then it was that everyone else, all those to whom Article 2 of that anti-discrimination law was guaranteed the right under the Constitution that no one should discriminate against them on the basis of any personal property, then the main theme was who would abuse all of this of their rights guaranteed by law. I don't want to speak in favor of any amendment. Once again, within the DS parliamentary group, we will consider all amendments and decide which ones we would support and which ones we would not. I personally, of course, as an MP votes. I would pray, if it can be my contribution, that when it comes to financial opportunities, we open up the issue of public finances when it comes to both funds and the way they are established in our budget, that we understand that every abuse of this law solves by establishing an institution of patient rights advisers and that whenever we want, speaking of the right given to someone, we count to three, if we can't do ten, and refrain from commenting that the right will be misused, because that attitude is a weak support that this Assembly would have to give to the rights that we vote for, whatever this law looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16391	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16392	I think this Article 2 is a key member of this law, but we cannot separate it from the entire health care system, and what we are all asking as a question is, is this member of the law, as it is set, with all the contradictions, the limits of the material possibilities of the system and financial opportunities? It's probably the patient's financial options, but it should have been specified. But, Minister, for the best of all, I think that what we said in the debate in principle, in order to achieve patients' rights, in order for this law to fully live, its intention is good, you simply have to turn your sleeves, you have to move towards a fundamental change in the overall system and the Health Protection Act and the Health Insurance Act. For what? Because we are the last in Europe to provide health services. This is a declarative indication of a list of beautiful desires that will not be realized without a change in the system. Why? Because we are the first in Europe to have cardiovascular disease deaths. There's a lot of death from cancer. Let's stop the misorganized. Not many radiation machines work. Doctors give expensive cytostatics to a patient. If no air therapy is allowed within two, three, four weeks, mortality occurs. After four and a half months, he's waiting for air therapy. The outcome is unfavourable for patient health. There's a lot of money invested in cytostatics, and without a change of system, nothing's gonna change. The European Commission considers Serbia's health system a burden of corruption with due respect to all those who are not in corruption, then poor and irresponsible management of health institutions. This is where we passed the law, under which 130m euros will be turned into a public debt by the head of health institutions. What happened in the meantime? It continued with old practice. Three and a half billion new debts have arisen. How did you ministers react? You wrote a letter to the health institutions' managers that any subsequent non-intentional spending of funds would be a call for criminal responsibility. What do we do for these three and a half billion? I guess there's a lot of criminal responsibility in there, too, huh? What about stealing babies? Over 100 lawsuits are in front of a court in Strasbourg. Some have been ruled in favor of those who believe that babies have been stolen. Ninety-nine percent of them didn't see an autopsy report or a baby's body. Brussels tells us, as in privatisation, to form a special agency, to investigate it. Should Brussels warn us to do what is in our highest interest? Again, 55,000 people are on the waiting list, not many transplant machines do not work, there are no basic medications, we have no competition in the health care system. At best, if you had come to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with three of these laws that would have been mutually harmonised, you would have general support, I think, of all parliamentary groups. This isn't a party question at all. This is not how we're gonna be against this law, but we're building ahead of time that nothing important in the health care system is going to change without systemic reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16393	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16394	I would like to say that the ministry has no capacity, no physical, no jurisdiction of the law, that it is returning to a nearer and further past and resolving issues of corruption, abuses, all of what is pressuring us as citizens, and not the slow intention of MPs, and it is obvious that these issues have their own correct epilogue in certain procedures, and I stand by you that other instruments of the state are doing their job in accordance with all the facts that you state. You said one material untrue that we have a high mortality rate because of the long waiting for radiation, and then the cytostatics are given, so there are professional errors that cause patients to die. That might have been the conclusion, if it wasn't, I apologize, but I just have to tell one truth. The disease in Serbia from malignancies is exactly the same as in other countries. So the number of patients is the same. What exactly is Serbia's problem? Lately they occur for treatment and the disease is diagnosed late when therapeutic options are reduced to a minimum, when complications are very common and, unfortunately, it is rare. Therefore, screening is something that is task number one in terms of improving health conditions in Serbia and therefore needs to go to regular screenings with doctors, when we have no symptoms. So my appeal is that we really participate, and the tendency of this law is to raise the level of health care of ourselves, that is, all of us. So, with all the problems you're talking about and the need to change things, I'm fully prepared for it, the ministry is ready. You know that the basis for systemic changes and the economic position of the state is. I sincerely hope that the rest of the ministries, the government and the programmes announced will start living in Serbia and provide a material basis for really planning higher-level healthcare. For now, we need to function as we can, but with a much better organisation, I fully agree with you, with the proper distribution of couples that are not few, I agree, and I fully support the findings we have heard from Mrs Gordana Komic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16395	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16396	I wouldn't agree with you if there was no going back in time. For what? When we turned 130 million debt of the health system into a public debt, you first promised us that by the end of the year we would have a list, or list of institutions that made the debt and on what basis. In the meantime, that's when I warned you on behalf of the parliamentary group. Meanwhile, the ride continued and there was a new three and a half billion debt. How are we not coming back? We need to explore each other. Secondly, in terms of everything else I've said, I'm not saying it's a health ministry assignment, but you're in the government, and you have to coordinate with the other ministries. I didn't say -- in terms of cytostatics, there are professional errors, but it's public data, that cytostatics when prescribed, as therapy, and when they end up with this therapy, that within three to four weeks, the most important thing to do is start with air therapy, and patients start because they don't do machines, after four and a half months, and then there's fatal consequences. Secondly, on the prevention of the fight against cancer, I know that the screening program has started, but I know there are a lot of problems because of the untrained frames and those 30 Japanese mammographers we got, that we were in danger of returning them. As for raising awareness, it's a campaign that has to start, first of all, the Ministry of Health and patients because everyone knows, and it's common knowledge that early cancer detection is the best condition for treatment. It is true that the population is not educated to the extent necessary, but the population cannot run that kind of campaign, and that kind of campaign is primarily on the ministry that you are leading. (President: Time. I'm done. Secondly, many and technical things you can solve need to be solved. Emergency services in Belgrade are working in war conditions, and on the other hand we have VMA where total untapped facilities or the Belgrade Clinical Centre with a large part of the space that has been untapped, etc., but we will continue to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16397	Thank you. Mr. Mijatovic, you've been signed up for word. Did you give up? The word has been given by MP Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16398	I didn't give up. Thank you very much. I wanted to talk about one thing, ma'am or miss, I apologize, Batic talked about quality. A lot of what she said is true. However, one thing is forgotten, it is necessary to separate the quality of the work of our doctors, which I think works as well as possible, i.e., to separate what makes this quality. You can't do it with ten fingers anymore, in the second decade of the 21st century, you have to have some equipment besides ten fingers, and that seems to be a little bit taken care of. So in order to provide one true quality, you have to renovate the equipment and upgrade the equipment, that's something you have to do and that's what it stands for. Secondly, I was offered that, you said some positive assessment of the health system, and Mr. Michael said that you were living better. Well, I wouldn't agree with that if we heard yesterday that Serbia's health system is the last place in Europe. That's terrible, that's devastating. I have to admit, I've worked for many years, but I didn't know about that information. Yesterday you participated in the show, which was said, not in the EU, but in Europe. Is it possible that our health system is so ruined this year, that we are in the last place? In that case, if that's the case, what my colleague Chikiriz was saying earlier, we're doing syphilis. By what principle, Madam Minister, no offense, are you passing laws? Have you made the priority of passing the law? This is the roof, this is something you need later, excuse me, not the roof, but this may be some kind of middle-of-the-line patient rights law, but first I guess we should pass a health care law. It's the first thing we have to bring, and then we're just gonna start bringing Lex specials or I don't know what else. On what principle, don't quietly, on what principle do you put the priorities of the law to be passed? So that's something to take care of. I would ask you to comment on this comment, this information that Serbia has heard. Is it possible that our health care is the last in Europe? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16399	Thank you. Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16400	Of course there is no verse, that there is a plan for the work of each ministry, that is, the government's plan for each ministry, and what we are doing now is on the legislative agenda, as part of the government's 2013 plan. Amendments to the Health Insurance and Social Security Act were provided for in this Parliament in December 2012, also in line with the government's plan. These two laws, which are now before you, are scheduled to be passed in 2013. The government's plan also provides for the Law on Records to be passed by the end of the year and we are working on it. So, the government made up its 2013 plan. I don't think there's any verse about that. The plan was also informed by the relevant committees, including the Health and Family Committee, which you were on when we talked about the plan. I'd like to say we can't get past that plan either. Does there need to be a system office and many other segments of particularly sensitive issues, such as health care? There is. Are they primarily related to the economic position, the situation in the economy, the political situation, to many other segments? They did. Does this mean that, until we pass new system laws, we don't need to fix legal acts, let's even legalize them, if life just confirmed them? I don't think so. Therefore, I think that the question – in which order we are doing legislative activity, simply does not stand as the question that we need to talk about here, because the government has a plan of activity. In addition, I would have to say that, when it comes to this law, that is, when it comes to these two laws, the European Commission has been asking the question several times in previous years -- is there any problem in passing these laws? We've caught up with hard work to bring them in, wanting them to be the basis for repairing every member, when conditions are created for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16401	Thank you. Olgica Batic, a replica of Mr. Mijatovic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16402	Yes, thank you. First of all, I will agree and support everything my colleague, Mijatovic, said, by saying that he had misread it. I haven't criticized doctors for a moment. Even more so, the stenographic notes show up in the discussion in the principle that I expressed myself quite commendably, respecting and esteeming the extraordinary medical profession. But what I also have to mention, of course, as much as it stands out for health insurance in our country, is the quality of services. One word, that's desperate. I also said in principle in the debate that I believe that the salaries of doctors, primarily in terms of years of schooling, to the practice they are going to, extremely miserable, at least as far as my point of view is concerned and of course they are caused, at least by a number of doctors, with corruption in our country, especially in health, not so small. Finally, in the end, as well as in the debate in principle, so today I am ready to confirm that the only bright spot in our health system is doctors. Of course, I'm not saying that they're all perfect, and among the doctors there are those dolls that need to be removed, as well as in every grain, as well as that they have very good quality work for all health workers, that they have well-intentioned knowledge, but that unfortunately, they are poorly equipped and underpaid. Since the health minister spoke and was partly encouraged by what my colleague Mirko Chikiriz mentioned, radiology was discussed. We had the opportunity to read about how our country doesn't have enough radiologists, how they are undertrained and how radiation is done. It's done the opposite of that, so you're making sick tissue out of healthy tissue that in a few years it's really going to turn into cancer. What are you... (President: Time. ) My question of health ministers – why is our radiology not at the level of Turkish radiology and their existing gamma radiation?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16403	Thank you. Predrag Mijatovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16404	Thank you very much. First of all, I wanted you to say that we're fixing the laws, Madam Minister. I ask you, that's what I asked you on the board – why don't we abolish laws that are clearly corrupt in health care? Why do you keep avoiding cutting off what is sick in our health care, which is extra labor? This extra work produces corruption, absolutely produces corruption. You won't put it on the agenda and discuss it and discuss it. You know very well what it looks like, what it looks like when a patient comes to a top expert or professor. The problem is in Belgrade and Novi Sad, not a problem in Vrsac, not a problem in Chačka, Kraljev and Valjev, the problem is in Belgrade and Novi Sad, as the professor's mass works privately. You can't get to that doctor, but give you a card, him or his sister, to come in the afternoon. It's corruption. Why don't you stop it? Let people give themselves up and say clearly whether to work in the state service or in a private office, not to be disbanded between private and social. It's corruption. It also produces waiting lists. It produces everything else. It's a disease in our society. Cut it off, that's not the problem. That's what this is about. Why do you keep avoiding it? If you're fixing the system, fix it. The last government passed such a law, the last minister brought it. Experts tell you it's corruption and it's corrupting in our health care. Why don't you cut it off? That's one thing. Secondly, in front of Serbian citizens, I asked you and I ask you to answer me if Serbian health care is the last in Europe? We heard that on TV yesterday. Please answer me that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16405	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16406	Serbian healthcare is by no means the last in Europe. The quality of what is happening in health institutions is denied by individual research. It's possible that by some parameters we're safe and at the bottom, it's quite possible. The research you're talking about followed four parameters. The length of the wait, the quality of the equipment, etc., here we are really bad and by these parameters probably the research is true. The question is, if it were to happen again now in exactly the same conditions, would we be the last one, or would we raise something? In any case, just because of what you're talking about, because of the most valuable in health care, because of the quality of experts who are brilliant in health care, we can't possibly say that Serbian health care is the last one in Europe. At the very least, this is the fact that from neighbouring regions to our health care, people who are seriously ill are coming into our health care system to get medical services. As far as supplemental work is concerned, it stems from the Labour Act. Health care professionals are not discriminated against. Another ministry should say that healthcare professionals cannot have those rights that other employees have. So we think that this is one of the serious topics that we need to talk about, the supplemental work, but the proposal for any changes can't go from our ministry, but from the Ministry of Labour, because it's in their jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16407	Thank you. An Ana Novkovic was next reported. Here you go. ANA NOVAKOVIĆ: Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, we have talked a lot here today about the availability of health care. Everyone must have available and adequate health care and there is no dilemma. However, in order to do so, everyone must participate -- the ministry, local self-government and the AP Vojvodina, which are the founders of health institutions in their territories. I've already talked about it here in the House of Commons, the damn village doesn't have a doctor. In the Kovin municipality, there is a similar situation, but we cannot blame the ministry, nor do I expect the ministry to solve the problem of these missing doctors, this should be done by local self-government. The legal basis exists, there is money in the budget, which means that it only takes goodwill for citizens of many villages in Serbia to have available and adequate health care. In Vojvodina, we have a big difference between hospital equipment. For example, if we look at the hospitals in Novi Sad and the new emergency center and the hospital in Panchev, we'll see a huge difference. I'm really sorry why patients, but doctors who work at the hospital in Pancheva are working and being treated under such conditions. We can't wait for the Ministry to just solve all our problems. We have to act domestically towards the money that's directed towards health care. So, one household and responsible behaviour towards the budgets of local self - administration can find money that can be used to hire young doctors who work in the country. On the other hand, the responsibility of the AP Vojvodina, which should be evenly invested in health institutions on its territory. If we look at the projects made by the Capital Investment Fund, we'll see that the most funds have been invested right in hospitals and the Emergency Centre in Novi Sad. Of course, financial discipline is also needed in the Republic Health Insurance Fund. We saw that there was no previous period. Every penny needs to be saved and let's see where he's headed in the health system. The minister, when she spoke about this law, said that in fact his goal was to create a partner relationship between doctors and patients. I would agree with that, but I would also add that if we want to fix healthcare and that every citizen has available and adequate health care, we simply need to develop a partnership relationship between all levels of government, local, regional and republican. Thank you. Thank you. The word is Dr. Alexander Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16409	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, just to rely on the discussions of previous colleagues, especially fellow Batic, who said, not defending something too much of her practice, because she, I hope, defends herself, successfully, that everything is being treated by patients from the flu. It is partly true, but it is conditioned that doctors have been ripped out of their hands to treat what the flu can otherwise be treated with - supportive, supportive therapy, some symptomatic therapy or already famous vaccines that are preventive. So, what the doctor has in primary health care is available for the treatment of influenza patients practically comes down to what you said under quotes. What makes healthcare work, though I mean at a very high level for the conditions in which we work and what we do, is the knowledge of people who deal with it and their enthusiasm, honor for exceptions that deal with other things, but really, if it weren't for so much enthusiasm and so much knowledge, there wouldn't be a "z" for health care in this country. I am very sorry that the Ministry of Health and Doctors, especially clinicians, are completely disfellowshipped from the adoption of laws and the conduct of health policies. It's kind of torn up into those who have money, under quotes, and I mean RFZO and the Ministry of Finance, which are the chief doctors, unfortunately, in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16410	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Zelenović is public. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16411	Article 106 has been injured. Rules of Procedure. Please, we're still on article six for the last three hours. So we still have a lot of amendments, and now we're not going to look into all the health care problem in Serbia on Article 6. Please warn the speakers that we are talking about article 6, about the amendment. The main debate is over. Everyone here has now gone through the health care system, especially colleagues from the U.S.S., as if the other day we didn't have a principle debate. Please come back and talk about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16412	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic, a replica. Here you go. ANA NOVAKOVIĆ: I think I really adhered to the amendment that speaks about the availability of health care. I just needed to point out that if we want everyone to have available health care, different levels of local authorities must participate. The easiest thing to do now is to accuse the ministry and the minister of not doing well, but it is very important that if we want our health care system to be good and primarily that citizens have good, accessible and adequate healthcare, we all have to take part of the responsibility. We can't wait for the Ministry to solve all our problems. The Minister of Health won't come to Covin and solve a missing doctor's problem there, for example. two villages. Simply, I think it's an obligation of local self-government and that the local government in co-operation with the Director of Home Health should do so. What they won't do, that's our problem, but I don't expect the minister to come to every place, every village and solve all the problems. So I guess I did stick to the amendment. Thank you. Thank you. The next reported MP is Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16414	I really don't see Mrs. Minister doing all this. What was that about? Today made my day, Mr. Mijatovic, with what he said and your replicas are indicative of what I'm talking about. So, what do you think? Once you said in response you say – it is not realistic to implement a complete system change. When is it real? Well, you've justified yourself by saying -- no financial resources, no economy is a mess. So we're proposing to you just because the system has failed, which is the economy in chaos, because we don't have the material opportunities to change the system and adapt to exactly the kind of accident that we're in, that that's why we open up the competition of private insurance companies, what does it have to do with the competition of insurance, that one system that doesn't give itself anymore, is gone, which is corrupt, so that it can live up to the reality and then this provision can work. As you think, it is also a partner relationship between local self-government, but not everything needs to be transferred to local self-government, simply because local self-government does not unfortunately have, just for economic reasons, no equivalence in development, no even capacity. I agree that he needs to withdraw from there so that that provision will be fulfilled. But, you see, it's not real. So how is it not real? If the system is based on some parameters, perhaps the worst in Europe, as it was said, so how is it not realistic to change it? What's real? To change for himself. What's real? To get there ourselves to find financial or material resources and that system can work out that there's no waiting list, that we're materially better equipped. How, from where? So there's only one option and you have to do it now. You're talking about the government's plan, so the government's plan is fine. One year we'll have one law, the next one. It's done right now. So if the house burns you immediately catch fire extinguishers, you don't stand outside looking and writing tracts about what you might need to do. So you change things and then corruption falls on your private salary. No one here accuses doctors of corruption. Most doctors do their job fairly, professionally and extremely responsible to patients. They're also victims of that system, they're victims, they're desperate for it. A huge number of people I've talked to. Let people work, let the competition go, and then everything will be different.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16415	Thank you. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16416	I was informed that the house was on fire by 2008, and I was wondering if there were any moves that were incomparably faster, more efficient and more quality? What's a fact, it's that we're going to use private resources and I think Mr. Aligrudic is really stimulating us in the ministry to think faster that this is a good way. When a state is in a situation where, not using private resources, opportunities for private-public partnership, insurance modes are different, it means really standing, not being informed where we are. We're on our way to the pharmacy. Thanks to this, citizens of Belgrade have had insulin these days, regardless of wheezing that there is no insulin. What's the fact that everything Mr. Aligrudić is talking about, there's absolutely room in our plans, programs and we have to go faster and faster than we've done in the past and than we've done in these seven-eight months, count on all these resources. There is no reason for a complete private resource that must, of course, function under the same technical professional conditions, not be included in the health insurance system and do not make contracts with RFZO for all those services that are not in state resources, because we really do not have the money to build new buildings, to buy new equipment, and here I am fully in agreement. This law and amendments that are on the agenda today do not resolve these issues, and I thank you for the instruction that is really quite in place, which I very much accept, whose advocate I am and it seems to me the first steps on private pharmacies with all the criticisms I have suffered, yet I was ready with my associates to make myself, that is, this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16417	Thank you. Milos Aligrudic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16418	A brief replica, which means what happened before 2008. You know, anyone who carried power in this country is also responsible. It carries in an objective sense whether the subjective me as a member of that political party or party to which I belong bear a certain responsibility. In an objective sense, yes, and here we are all in the same basket. There is no one here in this assembly, no political parliamentary party that can rise with something great. But if I can give some kind of justification behind it, and I deserve to give that kind of justification in view of your question – what happened before 2008. It's very simple. So, this political party to which I belong to the DSS never, in one period from 2000 to 2001, which is completely out of discussion because of the very strange circumstances, had no chance of having any influence or that by the political agreement that we had made in the governments that we belonged to, we had any real impact on the health sector and on the fund, I mean the ministry and the fund. It was another political party that kept it under control, and one of the conditions for the government to function in completely other segments was to let them do so. Okay, but that's the past. Believe me, I'm a contractor to you that any next coalition agreement, and thank God and the people will give, will be, that the DSS will participate in the executive government, will include this component and will have to be signed and will have to be protected. So, that's enough. So there's a lot of 11, 12, 13 years of riding like this, that's a lot. Although we are as guilty of what we are, we are as guilty as you are, but certainly less than those who take responsibility for running the resort directly. You have much more responsibility than anyone else. Those who led, or watered, I turn to them. And when I address you, I address you as a minister, not as a member of the SPS, as a minister in that vault. You have the courage as a minister, as a woman who's a health worker, do something, run the thing, and we'll say hello. I don't care what political party you belong to, and tomorrow, when we're in a position to exercise executive power with whoever we're doing it with, in whatever combination, I'm telling you that this is going to be one of the cornerstones of the political agreement for the government's functioning in certain sectors.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16419	The word is from the MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16420	The President-in-Office, honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several of the latest debates discussed the health problems of this amendment number 6 and mentioned my statement in yesterday's "The Insulation of the Week" when I stated that Serbian health care is 34th in Europe, not in the EU but in Europe. I officially argue that this is a clear data that has been examined for the first time by Serbian health care and not only by EU member states but by all European continent countries, unfortunately we are in 34 places. The responsibility certainly is not to carry the minister himself, but also to the ministers before that. They're carrying years behind us, but it's an indication that we have to think of each other and admit that something rotted in the state of Denmark and that our system isn't working. Because if we praise him in this room that he's great, the minister will always say that and always have to defend the system that he represents. I'm telling you that experts and the European Commission, and this was a European health consumer index for the European Commission for the year 2012 which was printed and printed in December. I can distribute to the members of the Health and Family Committee, and I can distribute to all MPs who are interested in seeing a very serious report in many paragraphs and in the quality of the health service provided.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16421	Mr. Milisavlevich, I must remind you that this is not a topic, so get back to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16422	The topic is an amendment on availability, so this report also treats the availability of health services for our patients and that is why Serbia is in the last place, 34. What I wanted to say is that in addition to this report there is a report on the Economic Council in Davos, early in the year, where Serbia fell by more than 23 places and is now 64th. These are all indications that we need to go very seriously and together into the process of reforming the health system, not to be praised, but to make Serbia's citizens have much more quality health care. It's something that has to unite us and something that we don't need to take our eyes out and say -- it's these people before me, it's not my fault, etc. It's all our fault if we don't have good health care. Because each of us can become a patient one moment and when you become a patient, you come to very poor health institutions that are poor, which don't leave for the 21st century, which don't have good machines, which have dissatisfied doctors, who have dissatisfied sisters, a system that doesn't work, where they transfer you to private offices, etc. So it's a total mess. It is the amendment number six that calls itself – the availability of health services for our citizens. So, good will by the DS Parliament Club, from me as a MP there is and I don't want to target anyone in the past, I want to aim forward and say that it's not good, as much as someone said it's good. Like, for example, the minister says there are drugs, I tell you that Serbian citizens say there are no medicines and I prefer to trust Serbian citizens rather than ministers. Yesterday, on the "accurate" show, I cited a million medicines missing in Serbia and why the drugs are missing. But since the subject is amendment number six, I'm not going to talk about it. The point is to try. Health care needs a lot of money. We're a poor country. Of course, I'm aware that we can't fix the health system overnight but that we can show that we want to. If good will is shown, there is a possibility of finding a solution. I have still had the right and good will for the systemic reform of Serbian health since 1990. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16423	The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16424	Thank you. I'll try to be as brief as I can, since I've been in touch more than once. With regard to the right to access to healthcare to a regulated Article 6 above all, colleagues, Mijatovic, the question is whether we are in the last place. My colleague Milisavljevic said we did. The Minister of Health said that we are not even, moreover, coming from the region to be treated with us. I think that is not true, since if considered, and all the surrounding countries in the region can be looked at, and then clearly you can carry out one comparative legal analysis so that you can see that Croatia is the most ranked by the quality of health services, just as regards Article 6 and the right to access to healthcare. I don't think it's a shame to copy those solutions that are better than us and try to apply them practically and implement them into our health care. In this sense, I believe that health services should be done, continuously, improved, new equipment appears to be a specialization of doctors and, in that sense, if you want a proposal, Croatians have a very well-organised health care and should be copied. Unfortunately, many of our patients are going to Croatia for treatment, they have certain specialized services, there has been categorized hospitals, and according to quality, etc. So, a kind of state-level list was made. If we need to copy someone, and we can't find a solution ourselves, although I think there are enough capable here, first of all here I think of the people of the medical profession, but if there's nothing left, there's no shame in copying those who are better, more successful, and in practice they're far above us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16425	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Gordic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has Dr. Vladimir Gordic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16426	The President-in-Office, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the reason for submitting amendments to Article 6 was precisely one part of Article 1 in this article, as was the reason for the amendment of colleagues from other parliamentary clubs. This amendment of mine has been rejected and I fully accept the argument for which it has been rejected, yet I reserve the right to comment on this article. The reason for the submission of the amendment was the first position – the patient has the right to access and quality health care, in accordance with his health condition, and within the limits of the material opportunities of the health care system. This last part of this attitude fully relativates not only this attitude and this member, but the whole law, unfortunately. But on the other hand, unfortunately, that's our reality. Today we are facing a very bad material situation in health care. This is the basic reason why today in the health care system neither the patient nor health care professionals are satisfied. This patient has significantly reduced the quality of healthcare, as well as availability. On the other hand, healthcare professionals face a lack of adequate equipment and materials to provide adequate and quality health care to their patients. It's all good when it ends well. Unfortunately, when a problem arises, as a result of a poor material situation, the patient suffers primarily, but also a health worker who has accepted that despite the lack of equipment and material, he tries to help the patient. Unfortunately, that's when everyone washes their hands of consequences and tries to transfer responsibility to each other. Then the problem is put under the public eye and everyone acts like it happened in America, at the Mayo clinic, where the material possibilities are far greater. When we talk about the availability of health care, there have been a lot of comments from fellow MPs but I would point out some things that have not been said. First of all, I think that some of the acts brought by this congregation and the government significantly reduce the availability or equal availability of healthcare to all of our residents. By amending the Health Protection Act, which entered into force on 25 December 2012, in the part where the financing of a piece of staff is transferred to the founder, "the equality and availability of health care for all users has been compromised, and that legislation created the possibility that more economically powerful local self-governments have better health care for their users because they can pay the necessary and missing when, although this is the obligation of the Republic Health Insurance Office. "On the other hand, I would also point out the problem of pharmaceutical health, where there is also a far-reaching consequence that you did not foresee when adopting a government regulation to equalise private and state pharmacies. In fact, this decision may result in a reduction in the availability of this part of primary health care. The state pharmacies have been thrown into one game that has been unequal to them since the beginning. On the one hand, we have a law on public procurement that applies only to state pharmacies... (President: Mr. Gordic, I am obliged to inform you that you can only talk about the agenda point, i.e. on the subject, and that is your amendment to Article 6. I don't think pharmacies are really about that. I won't talk much about this part, but there's one other thing. In view of the fact that there is now a competition between private and state pharmacies, there is a real danger that in a further period, since state pharmacies are open according to the plan made by the Institute of Public Health and where pharmacies are opened both in villages and in smaller suburban settlements, pharmacies that are not rentable and there is a danger that there is no legal regulations in this area, that there is a situation for many of these pharmacies to be closed. This will significantly reduce the availability of healthcare in this area. Because a privateer is hardly gonna open a pharmacy in such environments where there's no rentability. Once again, I urge that this authority be dealt with primarily by system laws and to provide funds for quality health care. Because we can all be patients tomorrow. When we are healthy, we have many other problems and when we are sick, we have only one problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16427	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16428	Indeed, the apostle has come more than seriously to make amendments, and this is the number of amendments accepted. I would just, of course, like to say that with the gratitude of a very serious work and the correction of the text that is before us thanks to your personal participation, I would like to say that the amendments to the Law on Health Insurance and Health Protection of December 2012, in no case have they made any discrimination between small and large units of local self-government. The personnel plan, which has just been completed, is very standardized. A number of residents are subject to a number of health and institutions and professional teams. Data is only a possibility for those environments that can help finance RFO to the personnel plan and beyond, to do so, because it's obvious that some environments can. So what's a minimum, or what's an optimum, which is foreseen by the Staff Plan is in the financial authority of the RFO and it hasn't changed. But if the local environment has opportunities and wants to give priority to solving health problems, including human resources, it's only given the possibility, because it's been done, let's say, past the law so far. So, the environments that have done so so far have shown by the results that such decisions are justified and we wanted to track them down. The Belgrade environment is one of those. As for drugstores, you know, there's no reason to be afraid of competition -- private-state health care, private-state pharmacies. Availability is provided by ensuring that everyone who meets professional conditions, quality conditions, is able to use the prescription in this pharmacy. Healthy competition can't interfere with either one or the other. If something isn't rentable in time, we'll see what we can do with it. In any case, we will not allow, as a system, those pharmacies located in villages, on the periphery of cities, to be assisted by the system and that these citizens, because there are neither private pharmacies nor state, therefore, supervision of the application of this Regulation is also important. We're doing it. There are other questions here on the agenda, and I wouldn't open them because they're not in the way of the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16429	Thank you. National MP Vladimir Gordic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16430	I agree with your argument, because it just confirms what I said. So we have this problem, you said the need for personnel in certain environments and that it is being complemented, i.e. the human plan is being achieved precisely by money from local environments. Unfortunately, some environments do not have enough money for such services. The other thing, as far as the pharmacy is concerned, you also confirmed what I said. There's a big problem made, of course, because of this law on public procurement. What's kind of gone over when it's being discussed is that the price of the drug is determined by the state, and the Republic Fund refunds the pharmacies at a price that's 10% below that price. On the other hand, you also have that pharmacies are registered for drug retailing and, under the Public Procurement Act, they have the right to exempt themselves from this law, since they purchase goods used for further resales. I think even some suggestion of yours was in the direction of the government that they should be exempt until the beginning of next year from this law. I also stress the inequality here, because there are chains of pharmacies that should also, given that these are budget money, be controlled through a system of public procurement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16431	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 6th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National Ambassador, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16432	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, three amendments have been submitted to this article on the 6th. One amendment was submitted by DSS MPs, the second amendment was submitted by DS MPs, and this third one was submitted to article 6, by LDP MPs. The whole debate in parliament shows that there are no ideological motivations here regarding the submission of these amendments. Obviously, all of us who wrote the amendments agreed that there was one limiting factor in order to truly achieve this first right regarding patients' rights, the right to access to health care. We've detected this in the health care system. So that's that limiting factor. All the other MPs who have discussed these amendments and this article have agreed with us, whether consciously or unconsciously, and have all recognised in this healthcare system the biggest problem in order to enable one availability and one quality health care. You now have one large majority of MPs in this House who are clear about the need to address a problem called the healthcare system, because otherwise we do not have really good, accessible and quality health care. Madam Minister, when you defined what you consider to be quality health care, you explained and confirmed our views as an expert. You have indeed left out this constraint by your definition of this quality, which is the limit of the physical capabilities of the health care system. If we agree most of the time about the diagnosis of the functioning of the health system, we agree that this system should change, and that system generates actually those big lines for magnetic resonance, for scanners, for radiation. It's this system that's causing a problem with using mammographs whether because they're broken or because there are no experts who can manage those mammographs. So that's the system that generates the problem of drug shortages. It's this system that generates Galenics. Galenika is a systemic problem, and the health system cannot be resolved unless politics and political will decide to make a serious reform of the health system. So I would disagree with the minister that the problem of Galenika is something other than a political problem. Galenika and the arrest of the directors and leaders of Galenika is a political issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16433	Mrs. Popovic, it is my duty to inform you that you are talking about the subject of the agenda. Galenika is not the topic of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16434	I'm just talking, Madam Vice President, because I'm talking about the health system that you've installed here in Article 6 as a condition that actually restricts the implementation of patients' rights and I'm talking about that the prime minister can't, after coming to Serbia, after visiting American vineyards, say it's not a political issue when the main people of Galenice are arrested. That's a political question. Why? Because "Gallenika" is a public company and because in December of last year, we ratified and confirmed the guarantees of this state, the guarantees of Serbia's budget that certain money would be transferred to the Galenika to pay certain debts, i.e. for some other purposes. So all that this parliament ratifys is a political issue, because it is the result of this ratification, and the guarantees are actually one big debt, which will eventually fall on the burden of the taxpayers and citizens of this country. So when we talk about the health system, we need to think too much about whether we really want to reform this system? Does it count on this health system, as it is now designed, as it now works, just creating additional problems, only creating additional borrowings and actually limiting the possibility of treating the citizens of this country? Therefore, Madam Minister, I fully agree with you, I truly believe that you have good intentions and that you are fully committed to your work as Minister of Health and I believe that you are aware of all the problems and depths of these problems, otherwise you would not speak of the need to pass this law. But the laws should also be applied and this Article 6 should be applied, and it cannot be applied, if you are making available and the quality of health care available to one material condition, and you are aware that this material condition is, in fact, crucial, in order to achieve that right that you provide for Article 6. This material condition cannot be resolved unless it approaches the change in the health system, and it will not be approached to change the health system and reform it, unless it changes, in fact political will, in terms of Serbia's modernisation, and so far we haven't had much evidence and much reason to believe, really, except for verbal pawnage and there's this ambition to change Serbia, in terms of modernisation. I'd like to ask you a question. The citizens asked me, that in addition to having created some problem with insulin deficiency, which is also raised to a political level, to ask you, do you know and know that there are shortages and some other medicines, such as lithium carbonate, from the D list, which is of exceptional importance for treating a particular category of patients? So that's the everyday life that these citizens live in and out of drugs and in these economic problems and economic crisis, but that still doesn't mean we can't in any way affect the functioning of the entire system here in Parliament. We have made our contribution, therefore, to the MPs of these three parliamentary groups, and they have made their contribution and all those other MPs who have said and how they supported that intensity, which could be found, therefore, our intention is to change the functioning of the system at least in this part of the material assumption.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16435	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16436	Dear MP Judita Popovic also made a personal contribution to correcting the text of the bill. Some amendments have been accepted. This amendment, which we are now talking about, for reasons that I have on several occasions given an explanation, is not accepted because the members of the 6th and 9th of this law and Article 25 are members of the Law. The health care law is exactly the way we treat this issue, and in order for the laws to be applicable, which we all insist on here, we need to be aware of the fact that the financial limits are the limits that simply bind us to it. So we'd like health care on a higher level. That elemental health insurance package gives as much as we can and within that we rule and make a legal provision that respects reality. Can that reality be better? Of course she can be better. In a conversation with Vice-President Beyden, not in vineyards, but in official rooms, Prime Minister Dacic discussed the co-operation and investment of all those who can come to Serbia and who can, of course, help the health care system to be on a higher level, as there is not one MP who is isolated from health care and thinks that healthcare will be better than himself. And so it's the segment and it's the most sensitive segment of society in the whole. Is it a political question what's going on in Galennica? You know, I think anyone who breaks the law should be subject to sanctions. For me, really, it can't be a matter of political option, and I repeat something I've said on many occasions. I said, that I don't think one party can be bound by crime, that there are individuals who need to be identified and punished, perhaps in the largest number of parties, possibly there are, I really don't do this, but I wouldn't label any parties, or MP groups, in a way that they're criminal and I really protest that kind of relationship with all of us, because the findings apply to all of us occasionally. Is there lithium? There isn't. When is there no cure? He's not here when there's no drug production and for some reason he's been prevented from importing it. Is there a mood stabilization parallel? There are also a number of medicines in the pharmacy, therapists know how to do it, how to translate a patient from one drug to another, until the lithium issue is resolved. So there are other mood stabilizers and there are them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16437	Thank you. Judita Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16438	Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive response. I really had no intention of linking crime to any political party. So that wasn't my intention. I really can't agree with you about the Galenika issue, not a political issue. Yes, it is. Because the directors of public enterprises are appointed by the parties. So these are party personnel and Galenika is no different from other public enterprises. So the problem is the functioning of public enterprises, and that is a political issue. As long as we have public enterprises, as long as the parties, in fact, use public enterprises as party prey after the elections, we will have a political issue whenever a problem arises in these public enterprises. And that's how it is. As for this article 6, I would remind you that the limit to material possibilities is a very stretching concept. I'm afraid many times that term will be interpreted very extensively even then, if you don't have to. When there are material options for a treatment to be approved, or performed, but under the cloak and some inability materially, it can also be refused. So it's actually a problem in this Article 6, which is kind of undefined and it's left to someone's discretionary right to decide when something is material, justifiable and possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16439	Thank you. National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16440	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by correcting one inaccuracies, given that the previous speaker has said that three amendments have been submitted to this article. Four are filed. Srdjan Shine has submitted the fourth amendment to Article 6, as far as I've read the material has not been withdrawn, but I give it to the law, we'll see whether it's withdrawn or not. But I think he's adopted, not withdrawn. The amendment was adopted to submit the amendment. So, to correct that inaccuracy, as far as the amendments are concerned, he looks very nice at first glance, I'd be happy to support him, if we weren't living in the country we live in. Therefore, the patient in the amendment has the right to available and quality health care. The words "in line with their health status" have been left out, and the words "in the limits of the physical capabilities of the health care system" remain. If we had adopted this amendment, we would have given patients the right to rights that they can't actually achieve. If there is no other part of this first position, if we delete and adopt this amendment, then health services to the patient shall be entitled to the availability of health services and quality health care, regardless of the material options from the health care system, which means that if he had rights that he could not achieve, because he has no material opportunities to meet this amendment, therefore, if he were to be adopted, the patient would not be able to achieve this type of protection if it did not comply with the material options of the health care system. So the right they'd give me on paper would be paper law. In practice, it would be inconclusive. In a certain way, this amendment is not acceptable, since it does not respect the reality in which the country is located. If we hadn't inherited the country we inherited, if we hadn't inherited 26% of the unemployed, if the employment was higher, if 300,000 people hadn't lost their jobs, if we had those 200,000 employees, we'd have a bigger number of people now who pay for health insurance. Unfortunately, not only did we not get 200,000 new insurance companies, we lost 300,000 people who instead of being employed and paying for health insurance, they became unemployed in the last four, five years, thus reducing the quality of health care in a certain way, or material inability, and these are not only financial, but also equipment opportunities, just because so many people are out of work, material healthcare opportunities are getting weaker. With this amendment, these material options are excluded, so the patient has the right to quality health care, regardless of the material possibilities, which I find inconclusive, because we live in a country that has almost no economy, in a country where we spend 20% more than we earn. If we adopt this amendment, I don't see how we can meet the conditions of this member of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16441	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shin. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16442	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the honourable representatives of the government, the reason why an amendment to this article has been submitted is because I understand the whole member in the following way. I think he helped that this whole discussion that's related to Article 6 actually leads to one solution where we can say that regardless of whether we define as a Lex specialis of this law or as a system law, that we all agree that before us there is a law that creates conditions for us to make a fundamental change in the health system and that this change in the health system should change according to different stitches, starting with whether we're talking about an inspection service issue, whether we're talking about the impact of criminal law, anti-discrimination law on the provisions of this law, so it's one task for all of us. In that sense, I withdrew all the other amendments that I'm talking about, so we can together in the next year to see what the effects of these provisions are, are they good enough and if they're not good enough, then we can sit together and talk about it all together, and if they're good enough, then let's see from looking at the entire legal system in Serbia that we've got one really positive effect. I understood the first attitude in this way that it defines the patient's relationship with the health system in relation to the state's material possibilities, but why is the next attitude important now? It is clear to us that we cannot have such a degree of health care as the most developed countries in the world, but what is important to us? That every citizen of Serbia, no matter who he is, he should be equal to that health system. In that sense, this restriction is quite acceptable to me and in the position of the first person you speak of is related to this amendment that I have proposed, and I will say in paragraph 2 what is the meaning of this amendment. So, the essence of things is not that we promise citizens that we can provide them with any possible health care, but rather that, in relation to the possibilities of the state, every citizen, regardless of the diversity he has, is in the same position as the health system. Article 2 discusses the prevention of discrimination, the relation to financial opportunities, the place of residence, the type of illness or the time of access to health care. The essence of my amendment is that it expands and speaks about the relation of some other differences that may be the cause of discrimination. One patient who is a member of the LGBT population could happen to go to a health care facility and say, "I don't want to treat him for it." It's not covered by this bill. Someone can be a farmer and someone can say they won't treat him because he's a farmer. I'm talking about patient personality. This formulation extends this to all other personal characteristics, in all possible discrimination that can happen and in this way, related to attitude 1, make this approach comprehensive and enable the state to say in one rational way – we are not really able because there are no material resources. But the feeling of the citizens and I think that the essence of this Article 6 is that we are all really in front of the law, in front of the health care service, in front of the healthcare workers, in front of the health system. Unfortunately, citizens today don't have that feeling. Some citizens feel that they are discriminated against because they live in the country, some because they are members of another national community, some for some other reason. So this intervention and the adoption of this amendment from both the positions and the Roma Party and from the position of the parliamentary club to which it belongs have made a small contribution to really taking a closer look at this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16443	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16444	I would like to thank Mr. Shane, who, by a truly quality amendment, has significantly improved perhaps the most sensitive segment that treats this law, and we thought that since the Assembly passed the Law on the prohibition of discrimination on the one hand and on the other, the issues contained in this amendment in some places have been partially touched and in this law, it may not be necessary to be in this place. However, the way the formulated amendment has really given us a big reason not only to accept it, but to explain now why the other amendments that have different segments of discrimination are also not accepted, because we cannot accept them and this amendment that is comprehensive. I thank you again for the quality of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16445	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16446	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here is the fourth amendment to Article 6, as I read correctly. Of course I'm grateful that this amandan was adopted, but I'd also like to interpret it the way Srdjan Shane interpreted it. The basic text reads - in the process of exercise of rights, etc., without discrimination against financial opportunities, place of residence, type of illness or time of access to health care. The very position 2 in Article 6 was relatively good, but was complemented by an even more quality amendment by Mr. Shane. He said there is no discrimination on any other difference, and that diversity can be, in addition to those listed, also political. It doesn't have to be just racial, religious, national, and he also cited some because of sexual commitment. It can be professional, it can be a mixture of native and professional. That's where he listed the agricultural producers. I would name the entire village population, whether it's farming or not. So there are pensioners and non-farmers living in the country. Regardless of any law that has been passed, they are in a certain way discriminated against. I am grateful for the amendment adopted, which even textally stresses the legislator's desire to prevent such discrimination, because it now mentions this other diversity, and in the text itself says the place of residence, the type of disease, etc. Especially interesting is this other difference that we adopt and the place of residence, since villages often do not have doctors. By law, by force of opportunity or trouble, we will not be able to implement it in practice because many villages are very few, some are almost extinct, those in which there are still residents, I think that nearly 5,000 have fewer than a hundred inhabitants, most likely those villages have no doctors. Imagine that kind of forced discrimination when you live in the country if you experience a stroke or a heart attack of treatment, recovery or salvation are far less than when you live in the city. You often don't have an ambulance in the village, you don't have a doctor, you don't have a home of health, you don't have a hospital in particular. Clinical and hospital centers and hospitals are very far away. So whoever would also like to show you help has a very good will, regardless of all the laws, with circumstances due to our economic difficulties, because of migration, etc., the rural population is in a certain way, regardless of the good will of the legislator, the force of opportunity discriminated. Today you have discrimination, here it says, patients. Is the patient a face that didn't pay for health insurance? This is especially good if the law applies to this type of patient, since we have unemployed workers who have the right to health insurance and health insurance and we have possible patients who are working under circumstances, and employers do not pay them health insurance and their medical books are not certified. That's what I'd like to hear if that kind of discrimination has been ruled out, since not by their fault some employer didn't pay for that insurance. Today, the Health Protection Act provides for a free gender change. Today it is easier to live in the city, easier even for those who change gender than for many who live in the country, who cannot reach a doctor at all. There's something else that bothered me about this diversity. Why are officials who talk to politicians in vineyards condemned? So the officials better go, even if abroad, where they don't choose where the host will take them, go somewhere in nature, into the village, look at the vineyard, talk in the vineyard. I think it's better to talk like that than we had a case of former officials talking, say, in Schiller, in a pool next to whiskey, etc. I think it's more natural first and it's more natural for more serious officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16447	The word has the People's Messenger Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16448	The President-in-Office, the amendment treats the material opportunities of Serbia's health system. We are calling for the health care system to be poor, that it cannot provide quality health care to our patients, to our citizens. I will ask through my speech and the question of the responsibility of certain people. We almost had a statement from the health minister that called the non-chalantity of the people who were supposed to start building clinical centres on the loans received by the European Bank, which we received in 2007. These clinical centres were supposed to live in 2012. We are in a situation that in 2013, in 2013, the only Clinical Centre in Nis, which I welcome, and the management of this clinical centre managed to do the project envisaged and enter the opening of the tender in June. I would not agree with the minister that this is the non-chalant nature of the people who ran these projects, who ate Serbian citizens between eight and tenm euros. When we talk about the materially bad situation of the health system, I'm here to suggest that someone spent nearly ten million euros over the last few years on projects that the European Bank was supposed to do to give these loans to build our clinical centres that would be worthy of our citizens. I don't agree with the minister that it's nonchalant. I think it's a crime, incompetence, and that's why I think someone should be held accountable. Someone who has played with a very good loan that we are already paying, who we will pay back in the years to come, who should provide better health care to our citizens, is not non-chalantity, but needs to be clearly told who was in those commissions, who was working and who was looking for responsibility for these people. As for the problem, we don't have enough documentation, and for ten years you've been working on this problem, I don't know what it was done and I'm asking for it to be examined. We're a poor country, but just because we're poor... (President: Mr. Milisavljevic, let's talk about the amendment to Article 6. Please, let's get back to the subject. I think this is very important. Since the amendment speaks of the material possibilities of the health system, I publicly indicate where our money went. I also welcome the fight against corruption, but it's more important to me where the money is. Serbian citizens welcome arrests, but Serbian citizens ask where the money is. I'm asking you who ate that money, where's that money? Give that money, which these hohstuplers have stolen, put it back into the budget of the Republic of Serbia and use it for the benefit of our country's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16449	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16450	Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate you reacting, but I think you should have acted a little faster since your colleague never spoke of an amendment now on the agenda. In fact, we're talking about the amendment of colleague Shaina and he's in no way concerned by what you're talking about. Of course, the URS and I personally fully agree with you. Everything needs to be examined, and who is responsible for the irresponsible spending of money in any area and who is responsible for the lack of insulin in Belgrade pharmacies and why 300 million were spent completely unintended and why very serious patients were denied for lack of insulin. Everything needs to be examined and I fully agree that it should be done for the benefit of patients from all over Serbia. But we're talking about an amendment from colleague Shaina that talks about health discrimination. It's okay that you accepted the amendment, because he's not going to make the law bad in any way, but personally, I don't think he's going to make it any better. I would like to remind, as you said, that there is a law prohibiting discrimination on which I, as a Serbian citizen, am very proud to finally bring it. The law defines it as impossible for discrimination to take place in any area and by any personal property. Here you have put some specific forms of discrimination into the primary text of the law. I think that's okay, because they can directly refer to the area of health. So, where someone lives, can they access the health system, etc. It's something that doesn't define the Law of Discrimination. You've defined, to put it this way, some possible forms of discrimination that can occur in the health system. In addition to his addition, he introduced something already understood by the Discrimination Act, which means any personal property. I can't imagine that anyone in health can afford to discriminate against a patient by any personal property, including this property listed by a colleague, Shane, or all those qualities that define the Law of Discrimination, including political belonging, including racial, religious commitment, including sexual orientation. It's all about what the Discrimination Act explicitly lists and prohibits. Not only forbids it, but punishments and additional higher penalties are provided for by the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination if discrimination occurs in the system of public institutions, so I think it is entirely mandatory for all who provide health services, that no personal property can discriminate against patients. I am deeply convinced that our doctors and healthcare professionals are responsible enough to know that this law has existed for some time, perhaps two, three years, and that they must have been informed during that period, and in the end, I believe that their profession and ethics oblige them not to do so even before the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination. But it's a good thing that law exists. The adoption of this is nothing foreign, but if we were to always and every time put some of the provisions of the Law on Discrimination into all laws, I think we'd have too many laws and needlessly burden them. That's my point of view on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16451	Thank you. Mr. Shane, do you want a replica or an amendment, so I know about the weather? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16452	I just want to say to my colleagues that indeed the amendment does not refer to Serbia's material opportunities, but to the issue of discrimination. To make it very clear, it is not said whether the Republic of Serbia can pay for something, it refers to whether in Novi Sad you receive someone in a certain institution or not. Do you in Vojvodina prevent informing the citizens of the Vojvodina of certain nationalities about their health opportunities in their language, or do you end it in a magical way two years or three years ago? That's the essence of the amendment. It is not the essence of the amendment whether you have from the Republic Health Fund, it is a matter of discrimination. I can agree with my colleague, just to keep that second part going, I can agree with my colleague, with this approach, that we don't need to repeat some law. But then we have to choose – do we conceptually do a law that covers a particular problem or not, if it covers that problem? I'm just going to give you one example, in Belgrade, it's, I'm not going to tell you what the difference is, where a young woman was operated, that a colon operation was performed twice, that an experiment was done on her by some special method I don't know. I'm not a medical worker, now to get into matter, we're talking like people told me, that a certain experiment was done that wasn't supposed to be done, and just because it's a certain difference from this set. I really don't want to talk about what this is about. (President: Time. ) This is the reason why this experiment was done just above it, believing that it is a person who cannot reach the state enough, to the law, to the courts, etc. It's just a matter of nature. Last sentence, do we define something in a comprehensive way? I would agree with you that there is no such question at all, to say – the Law of Discrimination regulated it and the point. But since it already is, then it's a conceptal relationship to things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16453	Thank you. Dusan Milisavljevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16454	Replica, not because we don't agree if I talked on the amendment, I don't agree and I'm building on a statement from a colleague who said that doctors were doing an experiment on a patient. I don't think any doctors, not in Serbia, but anywhere in the world, are doing experiments. Experiments don't even work so easily on animals. You need to get special permission to do an experiment. This is one big insult to the doctor's profession and I'm building myself up, as a doctor and as a professor, from this statement of yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16455	Srjan Shain, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16456	I said I wouldn't talk about the case. It remains my obligation to give you the name, the patient's name and the whole system in the next two weeks. Please, as a colleague, continue with the flaw together questioning the case. I said for the patient, for the difference, who it is I don't want to talk about. You can say you disagree with me, but you can't disagree with what happened. I understand that you disagree that this is not good, and in that sense I support you, I may not have understood you very well, but if you're building on my discussion, then you're being held against the conviction of that case. If you're building on any such thing, if it's not in line with doctoral ethics, then we agree. I may not have understood you very well, but I am obliged to give you a name and a last name, which is what it is, and then people will explain the details to you already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16457	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, here you go, Mr. Miatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16458	To get my word, I'm reporting to the Rules of Procedure. I think you've violated article 107 by insulting the Parliament's dignity. What he said, no matter what we're from the same parliamentary group, what Mr. Shane said is inadmissible. You had to stop it. The last experiments on humans were done in Auschwitz and other concentration camps. This is terrible. This is what Mr. Milisavljevic said, slap and charge of a medical profession, and you had to stop. Something like that couldn't be said. As I reacted when Mr. Milisavljevic gave the patient's name and name, so I react now. If there is a person over whom a criminal, Nazi action is committed, then it is done in another way, not in parliament. I suppose, given that Mr. Shane is from the Roma Party, he's alluding to the fact that there's a Romanian woman who's not educated enough to do something like that. In voting day, I ask that votes be voted on whether or not you have violated the Rules of Procedure. You had to break up and warn your colleague, Shane, because what he said was exactly what the Nazis were doing during World War II. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16459	Thank you. I'm really sorry I didn't warn you. I guess my attention dropped after three hours of sitting in the O.R., so I'm really sorry. There's not a single vice president to replace me right now. It's just about tiredness. Do you want to go through the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16460	Dear colleague, I think the Assembly is a place, I'm talking about Article 107, about a violation of dignity, where we should talk about certain things. It's not my fault something happened and it's not my fault... (President: Mr. Shane, so as not to further hurt the Rules of Procedure, please do not replicate. Let me finish. I didn't say it was a Roma girl. This amendment does not apply to the Roma. If you've noticed, I haven't stated in any of my interpretation of the amendments that it's Roma, but I've been talking about other kinds of diversity and I really don't think it's right and that it's an injured article 107, where it's said that if I'm talking about something, then it has to be about a Roma woman and that you really should have warned and sanctioned it. I was talking about a particular case where because of a certain ethics, I don't want to talk about what case it is, about diversity, about name and last name, by promising my colleague that I would deliver it to him. This is really the last sentence, and I don't want to talk about it anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16461	I really can't let you talk about it anymore. Does anyone else want to hurt the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Radovanovic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16462	The Honorable Chairman, Article 106, that the speaker can only talk about the agenda point. First of all, I think there was a misunderstanding that you had to react to, because honestly, Mr. Shane used a bad term - experiment. Termin - experiment, as such is not used in medicine. There's research to be done. He probably made a machinally mistake, and the more serious MPs, the more experienced, Mijatovic and Milisavljevic caught the scissors and now we're entering the third story about Roma discrimination, it doesn't matter. I think it's a mistake that you didn't break up right away, the bad term was used, and Dr. Milosavljevic thanks for his commendation to the Niš Clinical Centre, but it's still the best clinical center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16463	So, you wanted the same thing as Mr. Mijatovic, the same thing to look back on.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16464	I'm a 106, and he's 105.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16465	Thank you. Mr. Mijatovic, on what grounds do you want? Replication to Mr. Shane's presentation, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16466	Thank you very much. Not to change the thesis, I said in the second part that it might be a patient of Roma nationality, which is not irrelevant at the moment. If he thought I offended him by that, I apologize publicly, but it doesn't matter. It is important to provide information that an experiment has been carried out on a Serbian citizen anywhere in any hospital that is not being done anywhere. Something like that he said seemed like an experiment. It's a vivisection. That's what you're supposed to react to. It doesn't matter what nationality is, but I just can't agree that in this assembly, where it's not the place to talk about it, that any living thing, even an animal, is experimented anywhere. It's even forbidden on animals to work. You can't hurt an animal, let alone inflict it on a man. You allow it to be said in the Assembly, that people listen in Serbia about it, to listen that the patient can come to the hospital and do something that is not done anywhere. That's terrible. It's the condemnation of our system. It's a conviction and a doctor, after all. That's what you should have reacted to. It doesn't matter what it is, whether it's Serbian, Hungarian, Romanian, Chinese, Japanese, it doesn't matter what it is. If he got it wrong, I apologize, but that's what you should have reacted to and you should have stopped it. If it's accidentally done somewhere, I'm not saying that there are no criminals, maybe there are, but if it's actually done somewhere, it has to be raised to one high level and it has to be presented to the prosecution that's going to be examined, not to be held in the Assembly. What do you think people are thinking about listening to this? Some will fear, which are going into surgery, that they will be performed a procedure that is not done anywhere. Let's see if he can or can't. It's terrible. I'm telling you this because I've been doing surgery for 30 years. Now the patient should, when she comes to me, ask me – are you going to do me an operation that is normal or are you going to do the surgery that you imagined I should do? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16467	Thank you. I think I apologized and explained the reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16468	I pray that in the day of the vote, we plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16469	You already said that. I understand, and you have a chance to vote on it. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16470	I will still calm this discussion. I've also reported much earlier to react to what my colleague said, but since my colleagues have already responded, I don't think there's any need, except I really want to calm down a little bit of passion. I don't think the chairman hurt the Rules of Procedure, at least she didn't hurt on purpose, because it was simply a termological misunderstanding. Given that the chairman is not a doctor, he's probably not obliged to know all that, so I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I think the colleague has also expressed himself clumsyly and I believe he didn't mean it. Maybe he meant something else. In any case, if there is such a thing, fellow, it is a serious crime and you are obliged to report it, and not to explain and prove it to us, but it simply has to find its epilogue in front of the organs that need it. I think the dignity of the Assembly is enough that we've all responded, and we're all convinced that something like that isn't possible in the health system. If possible, I repeat, it is a serious crime and we all expect it to be adequately punished.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16471	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Gordic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 9th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 10th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shain. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic together submitted to the 11th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16472	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is about Article 11. - right to notice, one of the right patients. We actually have practically four interventions on this article 11. The first of them is at Section 3, where you say that the patient, of course, has the right to notice and the healthcare professional is obliged to give him information relating to the medical measure, so that the patient can make a decision on consent, i.e. dissent. You are now stating here that there are three conditions, practically three elements that a healthcare professional must do without specifically seeking a patient. You say it's a diagnosis and a prognosis of disease, a description, a purpose and a benefit of medical measures, a time of duration and possible consequences of taking, or not taking measures. We add that it is even more important to get information about the type and probability of possible risks, it is very important that the patient knows when the decision is made, then, whether there are alternative treatment methods and possible changes after taking action, or what changes in lifestyle the patient should make afterwards. Of course, it's perfectly clear to us, you've said a lot of things here that may only be interpreted in the Freudian way, but I'd like to avoid it, that in the present reality, as you like to say often – reality is like this or like that, the reality is that the doctor has, say, five minutes to give the patient all this information, which he can't. It is clear to us that this law, as you have conceived it, against whom we have nothing, it is necessary, of course, we would not agree that it is a lex specialis and we stand on the legal knowledge of our colleague Aligrudić that it cannot be that, but this law will not change patient status. It will only change when you enter deeper and root reforms, which we talked about when we talked about Article 6, when you change system laws, such as the Health Protection Act and the Insurance Act. Then we intervened with two other things that are very similar. This is repeated in Article 4. It's the exact same thing. We think more information is needed that the doctor has to give the patient to make the decision. They're really very important, as you can see, and I could explain and explain a lot more. What's still very important to us is attitude 8. - child counseling. Especially here is your annoying argument, because it stands entirely in our position. We are saying that in exceptional situations, as you say here, these exceptional situations are domestic violence, conflict of parents and children, with regard to access to health care or children, there is a need for services or education in the area of reproductive health. I don't see why you're making the point that parents and children are on opposite sides. What are these situations? These situations are exceptional situations, and that's why we're proposing later counselling, psychologists and things like that, but I think family and child are in exactly the same position. A family should stand by their child no matter what the situation is. I don't see why it's so controversial for these two things to be laid out like this throughout the law. As for the explanation of our position 8, I simply see the Convention on the Rights of the Child differently. I don't see that we should oppose the views of children and families when it comes to any medical services, or counselling, except, again, in these exceptional situations, I fully agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16473	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16474	Amendment to Article 11 of Article 8 is not accepted because the provision of the bill, in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee for the Rights of the Child, contained in comment 12 at the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, says that countries are obliged to provide children with access to confidential counselling without parental consent, regardless of the age of the child, because there are cases where the child is the victim of domestic violence or for domestic abuse, in the event of a conflict of parents and children with regard to access to the health care service or when the child is in need of services or education in the field of reproductive health. It's actually the reasons why we didn't accept this amendment of yours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16475	Thank you. Milica Vojić Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16476	Without wanting to go back to the interpretations at the beginning of this session, I can read it, you're here in an explanation very well and wrote what you just said to me. I understand what you're trying to achieve, but I don't see why it has to exist, and I don't see it simply as a problem, whether reproductive health and counselling is something that's against the principle of family. It's just that families have changed in previous periods, so I don't see that that's the problem. But on the other hand, I really stand by what you say, there are exceptional situations. These exceptional situations are covered by counselling, psychologist services and psychological services, which should also exist, and give these kinds of counselling. But for me, it's not really that kind of interpretation of the Convention, and I mean, I'll say that later, that we're going in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16477	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16478	I'd just like to say that we've worked with UNICEF representatives to interpret the Convention and formulate attitudes, including relations to your amendment. I think we can just talk, but our attitude is like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16479	Thank you. Snow White Stojanović Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16480	I don't agree radically with my colleague, and I'm not speaking from a political stance right now, and I don't think this law implies it. I don't agree with you in part either, Minister, because I don't think we need UNICEF to interpret this. We've known in the profession for dozens of years, that children have the right to confidential counselling, that's the standard of profession. So we absolutely don't need UNICEF to give us an interpretation. It's just something that's meant to be. Are we supposed to be giving up our reasons now? We can if we need to. Not just in special cases. And this doesn't mean that family and child are opposed. On the contrary, family and child are on the same side, but it is in the child's interest that it has confidential counselling. If a parent doesn't understand it, he doesn't work in the child's interest. That's why experts need to say their standards and principles on which they operate. When we spoke in the principle debate, he also told his colleague Korać that it was simply understood. Why? The child is very often so-called. I.D.'d patient. The child often speaks of family dynamics, which is behind the problem and which leads to the problem he has. It's impossible for a child to talk about in front of his parents. It's often impossible for anyone to talk about it. I'm not just talking about drastic cases of domestic violence, or sexual abuse of a child. I'm also talking about the number of other disturbances in a child's age that can arise. So you often have to use the method, game therapy, or some other methods to simply get to the problem that the child has. It is not necessary and often counterproductive for parents to attend because parents and children have a specific family dynamic and specific relationship that is not a professional relationship. So that's just what I'd say. I think it's a professional standard that has no discussion and it's always been. It may be that twenty years ago I was working against the law, because the law didn't define it, but that's how we've always done it, and it's just something that this law now defines well finally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16481	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16482	So, it is also a professional standard that apparently before he had and the legislation began to live in our country, but UNICEF reminded that the Convention on the Rights of the Child is the obligation of the State to simply, legislatively edit it and that is all I wanted to explain to Mrs. Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16483	The word has a folk MP, Dr. Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16484	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, that's exactly what I wanted to say at the beginning of the discussion, so a more careful reading leads to a more rational waste of time. Indeed in the text proposed, not the amendment but in the text of the law, are literally all the things that are necessary to know patients about the notification. What I think may even be a more debateable member to discuss in this body, is where he says – a competent healthcare professional can be extremely silent about the diagnosis, etc., but must explain it to a member of the narrow family. That's what we had, before we talked about the law itself, where we pointed out that it might have been incomprehensible to the general population, and that there should be an accent on it, and everything else is as thin as these charters, related to children, as the colleague says. So where there's violence in the family, there's no other way but to report the child, unless he just reports it, these are situations that are new and must be, and now they're first regulated by law. So, more careful reading of prevention, anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16485	Thank you. Milica Vojić Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16486	Thank you, buddy, I'm really harder to understand, because now that you've explained everything to me, I've understood everything. You're a great educator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16487	Dr. Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go. Did you want a replica, Mr. Radovanovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16488	Let me just say thank you. Thank you, colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16489	Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16490	Thank you very much. Although I belong to the ruling coalition, I would support this amendment by Mrs. Vojić Markovic, I think it is meaningful and if there were room, and there was room to think about it, I would not accept it so easily. When you defend it with some UNICEF law, or that it's prescribed, we don't have to rewrite everything and it's not all good that's going on in Europe. Many things have brought down both our tradition and our things that Europe has prescribed, so we do not have to overwrite everything Europe has given so blindly. I mean, what's this about? This confidential address of a child with no age limit. What does that mean? It takes a child of five or six years to come and say – Uncle I want confidential information from you and I want to talk to you without your parents present. So it should have been a little clearer though, but that's what we discussed on the Committee, Madam Minister. However, there should be some limit, in some ways, some age limit and some little clearer explanation of what it means and when it is classified information and a confidential conversation that it can have. What a ten-year-old can do to have a confidential conversation without parents knowing. Normally, it excludes domestic violence, sexual violence, etc. It can't be done in front of your parents later. However, we have another problem that we have discussed on the Committee, which is the participation of family or guardians in the treatment of children who enjoy narcotics. It can come to talk to a professional person, it has the right to have his parent or guardian know nothing about it, that he is using drugs, and that perhaps not knowing that this treatment will seek help and seek treatment. But we know, especially you as a kind of neuropsychiatrist, you know the impact and significant influence of the family and the environment in which that child is located. It is normal that even without the child’s permission, parents should be informed or guardian of the start of drug addiction treatment. This is quite a stunt given, this article about what rights they are and that the child has the right to the confidentiality of information. Those are the things I wanted to bring out. I think there might be some thought here, and it might spread a little bit, that we don't keep calling, another member I'm going to talk about later, we're calling on UNICEF and the Rights of the Child again. It is not necessary to overwrite everything Europe has given so blindly. Not everything Europe has given so well, some things do not agree with our tradition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16491	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16492	Thank you. I wanted to talk about this amendment and the amendment to the next article. I think a member should stay the way he's proposed, because children and young people just have to have a person of trust to answer when they have a health problem. For many years I have worked in education and I know very well from personal experience that children often turn to us with a problem, there were really health problems before parents. If a child does not have a person of trust to be addressed if there is a health problem, regardless of whether he is physically or mentally, it happens that the child suffers, that he is scared, that he is in fear, that he is very often speaking for help to friends or friends, because in that period children have confidence in peers, and very often it happens that even on their own they take different medicines, just on the recommendation of comrades and friends. Children may not be able to address their parents for their health problems for some time because they may be ashamed of their parents, they may have a fear of parents, of course we have to change that, that's another question, and we have to do a lot to work on that simple children have confidence in their parents. But I repeat, for a variety of reasons, children are afraid, or ashamed to turn to their parents, so it's very important that they know from a healthcare professional that doctors can get absolute support. Sometimes this health problem is certainly not a big one, but it will mean a lot to children of that age that they can advise with someone, to get a solution to their problem and to simply break that fear they have, that they do not know how terribly and incurably ill they are not. Very often they don’t go to the doctor because they would have to go to their parents or tell their parents. On the other hand, I have absolute confidence in our doctors. They're really real professionals and they're the ones who actually prescribe procedures, decide on interventions, of course they won't decide on a child. Certainly, if a doctor, as a professional, assesses that it is necessary to inform parents that he will do so and very often in a conversation with a child, it comes together to how to tell parents and actually breaks up with children that fear that now I do not know how parents will yell at them or be dissatisfied. So, in cases where a parent is to be informed, I think a doctor and child will do it together, or simply that a doctor will convince that child that it's no big deal for parents to find out about it and take part in the treatments together. We're going back to what the minister said, which I really liked very much, that we need a partner relationship between doctors and patients. When it comes to children, it really has to be that way for our children and young people to have absolute confidence in doctors and to know that they are people who will really help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16493	The word is Snezana Stojanović Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16494	Here's another little explanation about this situation. When we talked about it, or was it a colleague who spoke about what the lower limit was? There's no lower limit. Should a five-year-old have the right to confidential counseling? There should be. Why? Here, I'll tell you a specific situation. Kid, let's say he's got tics or night urination, or stuttering or whatever, night terrors, whatever problems may arise at that age. Parents and children come together. The parents want to help the child, they know they have a problem. But they are far from aware that some of their family dynamics can be the cause of this problem and do not want to deal with it. They bring the child, they say give him the cure and please solve that problem. In such situations, it is very important to come to the point of family dynamics, which may be the cause of a child’s disorder. That's why you need to have confidential counselling with your child because in front of your parents, the first thing that often isn't conscious, although it's conscious of what your parents won't say -- you know, my dad comes every other day drunk to the house, or he doesn't come in drunk, but he's very strict and I'm afraid of my dad or my mom, so that's why it happens to me, etc.; it can never say it in front of them. That is why you must have one situation where a child is relieved of all of this and in a special relationship of trust that is being built, not through one conversation, but once in months of conversation, will have the opportunity to become a conscious problem, and then, together with parents, of course, in collaboration with them, solve this problem further. I can't imagine the situation for both smaller and bigger children who would in one process be psychotherapy while they were speaking confidentially to someone, sitting next to their parents. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world, nor could it, then it wouldn't be psychotherapy, so at least for the area I'm dealing with, and I stress, psychological counselling centres aren't always out of health care, they're in a health care facility, I'm with a health psychologist. If this law doesn't make it possible, we can all go somewhere else. Please make health care a system where the patient can find complete health care, including classified psychological counselling. It is therefore important that there is no time limit, and small children must have the opportunity for confidential counselling. The second topic is the next member of the 24th to be discussed, which is the right of a 15-year-old child to just decide his treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16495	Thank you. The word is Dr. Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16496	Thank you. I or I don't understand this or your explanation I don't understand, but what does that mean? That means a five-year-old will only come to a health care facility to talk to a doctor? She won't likely be able to come. If he comes with his father or his mother to see his mother first, what he has to say now – I want to talk to my uncle's doctor and you get your dad out; or the doctor will tell his father to go out while he's talking because he's got a problem. I don't understand that confusion. That seems a little confusing to me what it's going to look like. And so far it's been, what's the general discussion now and what's this legal regulation, I don't understand, what's all this about? That five or six-year-old child can only talk to his father or his mother or guardian, and bring him to the doctor. Now, he's going to be looking, normally he can't explain what the problem is, it stands, if he has tics, it's not conscious of ticks, if he wets in bed at night, it's not so conscious of why. So, the father or mother is asking for help, and what now, the doctor is asking this father and mother to go out to talk to him, well, that can do it anyway, what is this regulation? I don't know, I don't understand. What did you want to explain to me? Are we all going to make this law public in all schools and elementary schools to write – e children, you now have the right to the confidentiality of information. I don't understand what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16497	Thank you. The word has Snezana Stojanović Plassic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16498	I'm gonna end up a colleague of mine, and if you don't understand me after this, I think you're gonna have to get some information somewhere else. So, yes, the child has the right to confidential counseling. Who will bring a child who has a problem, whether it will be a kindergarten, whether it will be a school that will point to a child's problem, whether it will be someone else's, that's another question. In any case, assuming that a child with a problem is coming, unless the parent wants to leave him, does not want to give him the right to confidential counselling, the expert is obliged to tell him to say so – I want to talk to your child alone about it and that. In case the parent does not give consent, we must have the right to confidential counselling of the child. I don't understand what's really not clear? Why is that regulated, and so far we've done so, you've said it well, why are you regulated by the law? Because we need to regulate every area we're dealing with by law. Now we regulate the law something that was a practice, but it wasn't regulated by law. I don't see what it is, really with the best of will, I don't understand what's not clear to you? Probably a lot of things in the gynecology area aren't clear to me and I wouldn't argue with you this way. So, the methods you use in your profession I wouldn't comment because you'd be afraid to act inappropriately.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16499	Thank you. The word is Anna Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16500	I don't see any harm in schooling in a visible place pointing out that children have the right to go to a doctor on their own. I think it's even necessary to do that. Here's an example. For example, when we have a response prevention in cases of violence, in all schools you have pointed out, even they have a legal obligation to point out, to whom a child should report in that case. The worst thing for me is that children are hiding their problem and it's only health escalating or using some drugs on their own or recommending comrades or friends. I really don't see anything wrong, I would even suggest that all schools should point out that children have the right to confidential counseling and that they can go to a doctor on their own. I think the bottom line is that we help every child get adequate healthcare and I don't see any harm in having children know their right to do so and that it is highlighted in schools. I would even suggest that we do so after the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16501	Thank you. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16502	I would ask my colleagues to be a little serious, because this is turning into a cartoon of what I wrote in my amendment. I'd like to go back to the basic question. So, I wanted to answer one single question with the amendment – do I as a parent, do I need to know that my child has a problem and needs to go to counseling, or, it's completely pointless that I asked and commented on whether I'm going to sit with a psychologist or someone else my child should talk to. That's completely pointless. So, as a parent, do I have the right to know that my child has a problem and that he needs counseling? I, in that sense, want to intervene in an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16503	Thank you. He has the word Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16504	I wanted to say here that this debate is just showing how much further this has taken to discuss before a concrete solution is found in the text of the law. I mean, I'm holding on to the fact that there can be different opinions. But it is very good that the provision, as Mr. Mijatovic said, was a little more detailed. You know, and later on, we'll talk about it, mechanically copying the provisions of individual UN committees and their conclusions or comments, or from the conventions itself, often this mechanical repetition is not good enough because it leaves misunderstandings. Indeed, it does not matter if a minor goes to a doctor of a particular specialty or general medicine for some counseling, or is actually his first address, if he does not want to know his parents, psychologist at school or at the center of social work. It does not have the same weight and cannot be observed in the same way as the effects of all this. That's all I wanted to say, and it's a shame this hasn't been a long discussion long before, and it wasn't just mechanical copying.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16505	Thank you. He has the word Dr. Alexander Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16506	I really have to rely on this discussion, because it's totally amazing that we can't agree on some of the essential things of a type of confidential information for a child, confidential counselling, etc. Since in practice I have cases of people being scared when they have 20, 30 years of medical procedures, medical diagnosis of what is waiting for them, so often those 30 or 40 years old make their wife or wife hold their hand while doing some procedure, to be present in the office. Now I'm interested in how old do you think children are in primary school to go to confidential counseling if school starts at seven years? Does a child ever get to notice that he's sick, since a large number of people who have light asthma have 50 years and have never had an asthma problem, have never recognized the disease? How do we think a child of five, six, seven, eight or nine years old will be able to seek counsel on something that happened to him in his sleep or even something that is an organic disease and mild symptoms?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16507	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? He has the word Dr. Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16508	Thank you. A colleague with whom I had just had a little discussion in principle is quite right in this part, with Article 11 of the Law saying: "In the process of achieving health care, a child who is capable of judgment, regardless of the years of life, has the right to confidential counselling. "So, it's not treatment, it's counseling. It goes on to say, "and without parental consent, when it's in the best interests of the child." With all due respect to what my colleague said, it's happening and it's going to happen, you've been reading from the media, there's some incendiary variations, some total nonsense that there's no way for a child to turn out differently than to go and complain to someone. Whether it's a psychologist, a sociologist, a pedagogue, a doctor or a third, it's totally irrelevant. A child must have the right to complain to someone and therefore be told through this member that it is counseling and for the measures he is a doctor, he needs to determine what measures and how to take them. I think we understand each other and this is definitely well written. It would probably be that the songwriter is someone else, I'm not talking about another party, but someone else, it was a different style, but I think it's clear enough and precise enough -- that a child who is capable of judgment can. All the kids are going through some tests before they leave for primary school. They've got tests in various forms of schooling, so I don't see any reason why we're doing this. We can define sublegal acts later, as well as discrimination, which was a polemic with a colleague, Shane. I think this is good and it should stay that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16509	Thank you. The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16510	A child who is capable of judgment and a child who is capable of divination had to determine that a child was capable of reasoning, or perhaps it just found it. To establish that a child is capable of judgment, so I guess someone has to take him, someone has to be with him, someone has to be there. How are we going to determine that the child is capable of judgment and is the one who will determine it? Is he a parent enough, is he a psychologist, is he a psychiatrist, is he a doctor, is he a pediatrician? Who's that? How do you get into the beginning of applying what is called – a child is able to reason? Who made that qualification or diagnosis?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16511	Thank you. The word is by MP Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16512	Thank you. Let's try to get into the past, the present, the future. So, a child who's capable of judgment, that's an estimate. So, when he was seven years old, he went to school, so his ninth year... (Alexander Radojevic, from town: For school? For school, for judgment. It doesn't say for driving, because it can't drive. So that child in seven, eight, nine years is capable of something, so at the age of 11, before he's old, there's a problem with the child being harassed, God forbid, and the child has to have an exit valve to complain to someone. That's counseling. So sometimes someone said they were capable of reasoning, so now, regardless of the years of life, it's the present, has the right to confidential counselling, it's the future, and without parental consent, when it's in the best interest of the child, to ask for help. It's a place where a child can ask for help. I'm not a psychiatrist by the way, but that's how I interpret it. So, I'm mentally capable today, I guess, that's what someone who evaluated me says. Tomorrow someone will say, when I do something, that I'm not capable of doing it, and in that context, I'm speaking in multiple stages. So we can't predict all the situations, but we assume that the child has someone to complain to tomorrow. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16513	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Radojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16514	A child is capable of judgment in school, of school duties. At 11 years of age, it takes a child to be trained to reason on a health problem. So someone has to set up a theory, that is, to accept the diagnosis as an attitude that a child is capable of something else. So we're going back to square one again, or we're going to have a psychologist's profession, a doctor, a psychiatrist's profession, and we're going to bring it down to being treated by paragraphs, that we have a legal provision in everything when the kid goes to school, when he's going to ask to go to the bathroom and everything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16515	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16516	With regard to the issues concerning the ability to reason, I think my colleague Radojevic explained it well. On the other hand, in the voting day, I will support the amendment of the DSS MPs, who have submitted for the reason that those in this Article 11th paragraph 8 are asked to, after the words "additions", "without parental consent" are changed by the words "with the consent of parents". In fact, I think that this attitude is acceptable, perhaps it could be accepted that he went to the very end of this legal provision referred to in Article 11, which regulates the right to notification. But if you look at only an explanation from which such an amendment is not accepted, then the third position of this argument states that the provision of the bill is in line with the recommendation of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, contained in comment number 12 at the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which states are said to provide children with access to confidential counselling without parental consent, regardless of the age of the child, but then you have cumulative conditions. First, if a child is a victim of domestic violence or abuse, in the case of a conflict between parents and children with regard to access to health care, or when a child needs services or education in the field of reproductive health. So these are the things where no parental consent is foreseen under the Convention, but perhaps this amendment would be more concrete if there were a supplement after this, a follow-up, and then for all other cases to indicate that it was mandatory and written consent of parents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16517	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jeftic Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16518	A child is a person, a child has the right to information and a child is entitled to protection under the UN Convention on the Rights of Children. This is one of the highest-quality members of this bill, which concerns the protection of the child's best interests. Of course this doesn't mean taking medical care. This is about counseling. This member of the law has been best networked with members of the Family Law, which has been passed since 2005 and has been applied since 2005, in which the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health, adopted a Protocol on the treatment of certain situations concerning domestic violence, abuse and neglect. I am personally familiar with examples of health care professionals who, in the process when the child went for advice, responded adequately to the problem of domestic abuse, and the child was given adequate protection precisely because of the possibility of having the right to deliver his opinion, and according to the Family Law, the child of 10 years of age has the right to give his opinion and the child’s opinion must pay due attention. Of course, this isn't just a segment of health care, this is a segment of social protection. The question of parent-child relationship is complex and complex and certainly that the health system is one of the links that gives the child the opportunity to consult, and certainly there are other systems where the child can come and seek counselling. In social protection there are also preventive surveillance measures, corrective surveillance measures, where parents can also be ordered to go with the child to the doctor, to the counseling facility, and the procedure there is known to be, that the child can, without the presence of the parents, talk to him. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16519	Thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16520	I'm giving up the discussion after Mrs Batic explained enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16521	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16522	Every child is a person, there is no doubt and I agree with that, but here in this article of the law writes – in the process of achieving health care, a child who is capable of judgment regardless of the years of life has the right to confidential counseling and without parental consent, when it is in the best interests of the child. Of course, there's no doctor who'll advise the child without thinking it's in the best interest. I wonder, given that I had the opportunity to have a great pediatrician professor in Belgrade, he demonstrates to me and all the students that he had in his career that he had given a child half a pill of aspirin to take off his temperature and that a seven-year-old boy had died in his arms after an anaphylactic shock. Then how are we going to interpret who's to blame, who's going to answer? Will this clinician be responsible, will it be a child who has expressed his desire to drink this aspirin in the best way, would this parent agree to it? It's a very difficult and big problem and it's hard to measure in this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16523	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16524	Worry about the child getting what is in the health care process and the most useful in his interest obviously comes through the different aspects of the participation of all of you, particularly the applicant for the amendment Mrs. Vojić Markovic. I would like to say that people who work as counselors, i.e. advise in health institutions, children are very educated, competent, professional, obliged to respect the rules of ethics and profession and I think that advice, which is verbalization, cannot possibly lead to the death of a child. I don't think so. I'm saying so. It's not a medical degree, therapeutic in terms of drug administration, so the child only accepts it when he's five years old. A five-year-old can feel a lot of support and security in a therapist, in a doctor he goes to when he has a fever, who he goes to and when he's not well, and now he's fine. One such transfer is made, such an emotional relationship between one who advises and a child, that sometimes a child can really say a key thing to function his own health to that therapist, or to the person who advises. We added to all the suggestions and instructions of the debate which was very broad when we also discussed on this topic the ability to resonate the child, or to correct the child’s conclusion. Who's estimating? One who is an expert to advise, certainly knows how to assess whether the child logically concludes whether he has his own will or if someone has induced him. Therefore, I think our concern, when it comes to counsel, which is in line with the document brought by this congregation, may be somewhat unnecessary. The person who advises has a license to do this properly, competently, professionally. It is clear that MPs and all of us are thinking when it comes to children, but it is also clear that a child at age five may need to have a confidential conversation, including advice, from an uncle of a doctor who has unlimited confidence. I don't think there's any room for excessive chills because this same therapist, so the one who advises at one point because of the procedures necessary to involve parents and that perhaps only when that time has said something that has come into contact with the child. The councils are working and organized by very competent professionals. A lot of education, reading books, and personal experience are needed to obtain a certificate and to work as a counseling person. These are mostly highly educated pediatricians, when it comes to healthcare professionals, they are mostly neuropsychiatricians and psychiatrists, clinical psychologists or psychologists with a lot of experience, defecologists, social workers, people who go through very rigid educations before they come into a position to work this procedure that we have been talking about for more than an hour.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16525	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Bojan Kostres, Đirđe Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Antic submitted to the 12th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has the National Ambassador, Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16526	The amendment submitted by LSV MPs refers to the free choice of proposed medical measures, and in the explanation we wrote that it is necessary to supplement the proposed amendment, in order to complete the purpose of this member, which is to include, in addition to the free sources of the proposed medical measures, the right to accept or refuse a certain diagnostic procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16527	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16528	Medical measures are procedures conducted in prevention, diagnosis, therapy and rehabilitation. We don't think we need to isolate diagnostic procedures specifically. There's no reason, because they're also delicate and preventive and therapeutic rehabilitation and it's actually covered by this law. That's why we didn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16529	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16530	I need to draw attention. This is a crucial thing. I'll be very brief, but most importantly. It's not true what it says in Article 12. So it is not essential that the patient has the right to have a free choice of medical doctors, i.e. dentists, medical institutions and a free choice of proposed medical measures, etc. That's not true so far. The day this law comes into force, that provision is a dead letter on paper. It won't be true from then on. Change the system laws, you'll get the exact statement in Article 12. How can you, as a patient, have the right to choose a doctor freely, when you can't go to a private facility and choose your doctor with your health book that only the Fund can verify and choose? So, where's your free choice? That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16531	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16532	Namely, this amendment by the Members of Parliament to Article 12. I believe the bill's proposal was able to accept such an amendment, first of all, because diagnostic procedures, are the fact that they fall under medical care, but this is in favour of the fact that there is no sign of equality between diagnostic procedures and medical measures. I believe that it could have been done to complete such a single right to accept or refuse a certain diagnostic procedure, because, in fact, by singleing out such a diagnostic procedure in this way, it should not actually be considered as an individual right to a free choice, but I believe that it would only be accelerated in this way and that this would actually be complemented by Article 2 of this proposal of the patient law, in its position 2, i.e. in point 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16533	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 14 by MP Vladimir Gordic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16534	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Madam Minister, Article 15 refers to the right to consent of the patient to apply a measure. In Section 2, you wrote – no medical measures should be taken without the patient’s consent. We feel it is necessary to add – without the patient’s written consent. Why? Because we think it's very important to build trust and the relationship of the patient and the doctor on perfectly clear principles, and this is actually a written document, in a written way, to give consent to the patient. This allows all future misunderstandings to be overcome in a simple way, and I say this especially because you in the next article of the 16th say that the patient can also give a silent consent to the measure. It's only where there can be misunderstandings. I'm afraid that these misunderstandings can later lead to much more serious situations and only then can there be major problems and this can be a major stumbling block between doctors and patients in collaboration that should contribute to the patient's improvement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16535	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16536	Thank you. Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, I always said that medicine is something living, something that's moving, and that's not about the only paraphrases or signatures. How am I gonna get into the ER when a patient comes in in a bad state of traffic, how am I gonna get written consent from him? How am I gonna get from a patient who came out of a fight or not talk about what situation, how am I gonna get written consent? I'm really asking you, without wanting to get into polemics, there's no need for formalization. It's very precise why it should be like that here. You added here to suggest, there was a story just now about medical measures, diagnostics or procedurals, and it was misunderstood. So, one procedure, when coronography is done and a doctor, an intervention radiologist or an intervention cardiologist, on the table finds that there is a narrowing or stent of a particular blood vessel, he continues the procedure, after the balloon catheter. He can't break up in half and say -- let's talk about what's going on right now. He'll move on, because he's jeopardizing the patient. You have to understand that. I try all the time, it might have seemed a little rough at the beginning of the debate, through a joke, but to understand that there is no possibility of signing the document at some point, no way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16537	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16538	Since the amendment of the People's MPs from the DSS is not about some fundamental amendment, but about an amendment of a technical nature, I think it should be accepted. I will, of course, support him in voting day. Of course, I believe that, as Article 15 states - without the consent of patients, no medical measure should be taken, I believe it is necessary to insert the word "written", by perhaps that this amendment could have gone in a broader direction, so what counterpart Radovanovic mentioned cannot or if the patient is in a difficult state, then perhaps without the written consent of a member of the family, so before this Article 15 was linked to Article 16, which Mrs Milica Vojić Markovic explained to you. Then you have the view of Article 16(2) that the patient does not commit consent to which the necessary notification has not been preceded in accordance with Article 11 of this Act, the competent healthcare professional taking the medical measure, in that case, is at risk of adverse consequences. When you look at Article 11, the right to notice says – the patient has the right to receive timely notice from the competent healthcare professional in order to decide whether to agree or not to agree to the proposed medical measure. From there, I think, my colleague Radovanovic, that it does not stand what you just said, because this is being denied by article 14, which is the right to inform you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16539	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16540	We have provided for oral or written consent to Article 16. To give an explanation, since there have been several amendments bound, also technical, that the term "literate" should be replaced by "written". Opinions are shared. It's rightly grammatical and lexic both of them. But we consulted the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language, and they told us, since the letter is the basis, it should be said – by written means, that is, they prefer it. Since opinions have been divided, we have accepted the position, although I have personally been more inclined to believe that it is correct to speak – by written means. I think it is correct, since there is already a committee that standardises the Serbian language and when they have their position, to accept their position. But I accept this amendment. Therefore, we have provided for the possibility of written or oral consent in the position of Article 1 16. However, it does not mind being explicitly written, simply, strengthening in a certain way another patient’s ability to think before signing anything. Indeed, I accept your suggestions and accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16541	Thank you. Let me inform you that Srdjan Shaina's amendments to Articles 44, 45 and 46 have been withdrawn, so we will not consider them today. The word has a folk MP, Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16542	Thank you very much. I would rely on what Mr. Radovanovic was saying. It's okay for a patient to sign to accept a certain intervention. I must say, though, that the 15th and first positions of Article 17 are somewhat in collegiate. Because he cited one example, other types of situations occur, that you have patients who belong to certain sects, such as Jehovah’s Witnesses, who do not accept and refuse to accept any surgical intervention, sign that they do not want to receive blood in any situation. What do you do now? You're saying I'm acting according to medical ethics. If this patient on the operating table dies of blood loss, you can save his life by giving blood, what is that doctor supposed to do? Will it fit legally or not? If he's doing medical ethic, he saved a patient. If he acts under this law and according to the patient's signature, he has no right to give him blood, even if it is according to the next Article 17, which he says - the patient has the right to refuse the proposed medical measure, even if it saves or maintains his life. With these two members, we bring into a rather difficult situation future doctors, not those dealing with social medicine or any other branch, but we put people who are dealing with the life of the patient at risk. What do you do in a situation like this? Madam Minister, what do you do when a patient is in deep anesthesia, dying, and I need to do something that I can save his life, and he signed that he refuses? You hereby oblige me to let him die. What one of the MPs was saying on the board, it's euthanasia. Please answer me, what are you doing in this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16543	The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16544	When we discussed in principle this very important issue, and I would remind you of Article 18, which says – over a patient who is unconscious or for other reasons is unable to declare his consent, an emergency medical measure can be taken without his consent, which will be notified by members of his family, whenever possible. So the consular finding is, of course, important. That's where the consulate decides. It's Article 18, Article 2, it's still being elaborated. So, I think the answer to the question is contained in Article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16545	Predrag Mijatovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16546	The answer is not contained in that. What you read, it's not. The patient has already signed a refusal before that. He signed off on saying no. In case a liter or two blood is indicated, or anything, I refuse for religious reasons. That must be respected. So you didn't answer me with article 18.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16547	The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16548	I think we've elaborated this, and, let's just say, it seems to me that we're in the middle of a debate in principle. Any person capable of judgment and available free will shall have the right to accept or reject the measure proposed by the experts. It's the right of every person and it's one of the most elemental human rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16549	The word is Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16550	If I understand you correctly, this patient lying on the operating table, in which case he will exist. So you're giving him the right to let that patient exist, I didn't give him blood, and the patient could die because he signed that right. Did I understand you correctly?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16551	The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16552	I think you've actually had these delicate situations that are rare. But when you tell the patient that it's very likely that the outcome will be fatal if he doesn't accept surgical intervention, and he says - I don't accept it. If he's on an operating table or in an office, where his life is to be saved in some way, we're like therapists at the obligation to tell him that there's a great risk of death. He must decide whether a certain procedure accepts, because the right to life and health is, in fact, the personal right of each individual. It's just that this isn't any new provision. This has already taken over from the existing law. So we haven't changed anything to this. This already exists and this is already the right used by persons in case they do not want to accept certain procedures, procedures, therapeutic, diagnostic etc. We're just and really bound to keep it all in as experts. But anyone who judges and concludes well has the right to reach a conclusion on the proposal of experts regarding the procedures that will be carried out over it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16553	Mr. Mijatovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16554	This is a very serious question, an extremely serious question and a serious thing we are talking about right now, Serbia listens to us. You say he can ask. I don't have a chance. I say, my colleagues, we don't have the opportunity to have a patient who's in anesthesia or in the unconscious state he's in, I don't have the opportunity to consult with him, I'm partnering with him, as you say, since they're partners, about whether he accepts me to save his life, or not to accept saving his life. So you're asking me, from us doctors, with this law that if I respect the law, that on the operating table, the woman I'm doing the C-section, or I'm doing her hysterectomy, or the removal of the uterus, which is for certain reasons that can happen, I'm going to die on that operating table, and before that, she said that she refuses blood, I take off her gloves and let her die. That's terrible. It's terrible what you're doing. Please, you're a professor of the university. The first sentence that stands in the medical book is "priming non-nights" – primarily harmless. Regardless of the law that you are now passing, I find that no doctor in Serbia will respect this legal obligation, regardless of what the patient or patient has signed for days of acceptance to be helped in the event of an imminent fatal outcome, but does not accept that it is being helped, I do not believe that a single doctor will follow this law that you are now passing. This is a dead letter on paper. Just to be threatened by a five-year sentence, I'm going to give that patient blood, no matter what you've passed this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16555	Time. Thank you. The word is made by Minister Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16556	I note just once again that this is a 2005 provision that has never compromised the work of experts. Apparently not from now on. If the person is in anesthesia, then she is unable to freely and freely reason, conclude and decide. So, then these other measures we were just talking about apply. Obviously, if you're looking for a better solution, we're offering, there's been a public debate, it's possible, there weren't any such objections from this guy either from experts or on board or anywhere, so if there are better solutions, it's not bad to hear them. I say this is a provision that has been in our legislation for years, which has never been abused and will not be. If the person is in anesthesia, then she cannot freely, willingly decide or conclude.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16557	Thank you. Mr. Mijatovic, I'd close the circle of replicas. You can call back later. The word is Olga Batic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16558	I'll be very brief. Since my colleague Mijatovic is a doctor, I am not, I am a lawyer, but I am somewhat aware of certain branches of medicine. I'm just going to make sure that this doesn't just seem to be a collapsing of Articles 15, 1 and 2 with the attitude of Article 17, but these two members and those positions are also in collapsing with Article 11, in Article 1 and 5. After all, this provision that was passed in 2005 is not unchangeable, is it? I'd love to, no matter what I'm not a doctor, since you said you were working for some kind of solution, if there's a working group, I'm at your disposal. Just call me and I'll suggest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16559	The word is Dr. Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go. Zoran Radovanovic: Replica. You have no right to a replica. You can talk about the amendment and spend the time of the parliamentary group, or an authorised representative. (Zoran Radovanovic, from the place: The two called me. We've closed the circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16561	I'll use group time. I've had one, I've got one, I've got an uncle who comes in, when I'm a kid, so he's asking me, since I've always written a bad letter, what a bad letter looks like, and then my dad's a little bangy, son, how you don't write well, and I know what my handwriting is, and I always ask, not a hair far from it, so you don't get me wrong. The situation is simple. A patient by Article 11, if he is conscious, orientated in space, which he said just before his colleague, has all the prerogatives of normal conversation, it is explained to him whether he is one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, whether he is a witness, or a third, that blood must be given to him. If the patient, the witness of that one there, accepts this procedure, we know that the procedure goes either way, we say anesthesia, and it ends in its own way. If a patient from the whole story, I've explained it to my colleague Batic before, comes in a state of injury, has no one to give him a variant, can't explain it to him, I can't explain it to some NN person right now, to call someone of his and see where he lives, to write him traffic, to get foreign citizens to the Emergency Center. Who should I call Turgut Ozal to ask him why the Turk who passed by Nais didn't hit where he hit? I don't know if you understand me. I understand your rhetorical abilities... (President: Please do not address the MP directly. I'm talking about the law. (President: Just don't address the MP directly. No, I'm looking over there. So, we got along a little while ago. This is one case per million. No doctor will ever let a patient on the table take the law, he's right about a colleague, I know it by myself, I know it by all the colleagues I know, and I know them all over Serbia and the world, to let the patient die. According to Article 11, paragraph two, attitude 38.6, it says it might. No way. He'll save his life. It's at least the ones I know, maybe you know some other doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16562	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16563	A esteemed colleague Radovanovic feels the need to always mention me like this, so now he uses the time of his parliamentary group to get me to the point. My colleague Radovanovic, you didn't explain anything to me. I'm a lawyer, I understand all my colleagues here, but I absolutely don't understand you. You asked if we understood you? I don't think most of us here understand what you wanted to explain to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16564	The word is made by MP Zoran Radovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16565	I thank you for your trust. I'll call you every time there's a need for it. I'll always do that with respect. Let's go back to a specific member, to a concrete example. Certainly, the lawyer, the lawyer, and you said there was some legal text and procedure that would explain how it was. What I'm saying is, I repeat, 159 times already, that medicine is not a set of parameters, papers, some things, but a living organism, a system that works, and it's not that simple. As you can hear on television last night, half the machine is not working, and then the director says, "I'll buy medicine at the pharmacy in Belgrade in seven days, and he knows he can't pass the procedure in seven days." It's not the same law and not the law. The law has been passed for some other things, some machines in Serbia are working, some are not working. That's where you were right when you were talking a little while ago. A patient who has a right, as no one has invested on Article 14, if you've paid attention, an amendment explaining that students can attend certain interventions, etc. I think there was a colleague from some MP group, I think it's SDPS. The woman explained that this legalizes the introduction of students to attend exercises. That's not true. Students have been at the exercises since when there's been medicine. That's how they learn. Someone looked at it and no one asked. That's some stuff. Is it written or written or written or written? That's the legal-lecture stuff and stuff. So that's another thing. Now I know when after October 5 or 1996 people submitted some amendments to the point and to the point. We're talking about the essence here. A patient without consciousness is not in God's hands. (President: Time. What time? There's still time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16566	Did you look for a replica and get time for a replica? The replica lasts two minutes. The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16567	Thank you. This presentation, a esteemed colleague Radovanovic, began with a sentence – a proposal from the member, as a concrete example. First, the member doesn't have a proposal. He's got the law. And the proposal of a member does not exist and a member is not an individual, concrete example of life practice, but is a member of the law. So there's no proposal for a member in legal terminology. On the written language, you don't have to explain to me, Madam Minister has already told us everything, of course, you say that you've explained all of this to everyone 199 times, here, now I understand all of you and don't get 200 times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16568	Mr. Radovanovic, I ask you to stop the replica and proceed as we have lost a lot of time. Here you go, but for a little while.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16569	I'm really gonna be brief. I didn't say 199, I said 159. So don't follow closely. I'll look the other way so I don't talk to my colleague Batic. (National MP Olga Batic throws out of place. Did you say I was talking to you? Member of the law, don't hold my word, I tried to explain it simply and simply. A patient who's in a coma or a patient who's not in a coma. What are we doing with him? A patient who is one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, a patient who is another witness. Explaining witnesses, not witnesses, and we'll be able to resolve them legally. What a colleague just said - none of the doctors will ever allow themselves the luxury of having a patient die on the table, because someone there is a third. Trust me. I'm done. 15 days ago she came, I had a job as a counselor, a family. My wife had a problem with her leg, so Grandma didn't want to operate on my leg and my daughter asked me what to do now. Grandma won't operate on her leg, she's got a trombone, she's got a stroke, she's gonna die. Believe it or not, I'm on my knees, there's video, there's a camera in the office, I'm begging my wife to convince my grandmother, however you know, that we're operating on her. He says, Grandma won't. Please, I'm on my own. I lost three hours in an application for my grandmother to operate. And I convinced her after 159 and a few times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16570	Mrs. Batic, let's cut the line, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16571	My colleague Radovanovic, now you've really convinced me. Well done for persuasion. That's how you convince every patient. Well done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16572	The word is Dr. Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16573	The Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, patient rights, was the consent of a patient written or oral, it may sound nice for patients who are light, who are easy for those specialities of medicine dealing with any cosmetic medicine or someone who is not life-threatening. I must stress that in medicine there are very many procedures that are related to the great diagnostic risks that sometimes lead to death. Several dozen of these procedures exist which are dangerous and which are known to be, according to the number of interventions, when some intervention can be expected to end in flight. I don't want to list these procedures, so the patients in the front don't get scared. The clinics know that well. That's why I think our hospitals are going to want clinicians who will be brave enough to do some kind of procedure, taking all those obligations and risks they put on their own by applying these laws. I think somehow all the medics and colleagues will identify themselves for those professions that don't carry around some big risk that everyone will be dealing with some specialities that are easy, which children would say, and we'll leave these difficult procedures for someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16574	Thank you. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16575	For the sake of information, the most difficult are surgical procedures. We always have an incomparably greater number of interested people than we have the opportunity to give specializations. Unfortunately, there's not enough radiologists, there's not enough pathologists, there's no anesthesiologists, I don't know what's easy and what's hard. Everything is equally serious with different aspects.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16576	Thank you. Srdjan Milivojevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16577	Your Honors Madam Chairman, Your Honor, Madam Minister, allow me to say something about this amendment. There are some of us who have some other knowledge of medicine, at least I've graduated from med school. Somewhere in the third year of high school, a targeted education, one of the first lessons that we had, it was said – the laws will be changed about patients' rights, one way or another, but will never change Hippocrates' oath. Always remain faithful to the Hippocratic oath and help the man, and then you will know that you have entered the right university and finished it and that you are making the right call. Helping a man, whether he says it or not, is the basis of his actions in medicine, and I think all doctors should stick to it, to help a man. Whether it's going to be just one way or the other, if the solution is good, if there's no consequence, it means that the thinking was good. I think the universal principle of Hippocrates' oath is indeed a universal principle, which all doctors should adhere to. Of course the law is there to energize and help the patient in an adequate way to be given first aid, but according to all those codes that exist, then there are no mistakes and then we will have good health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16578	Thank you. Predrag Markovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16579	I'm just asking my colleagues, I totally understand, especially the professionals of doctors, but here's the word, as it seems, Mr. Mijatovic reminded me of the basic rule, before we knew the techniques of medicine that we know today, the rule that he says did not hurt. But over the past few thousand years, we have been taught that this applies, this address directly to the MP is an expression of respect, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, taught us that the physician with all his commitment, within the limits of the technique and the knowledge he has, and as you know, human law is unlimited. If the patient says no, it's the first injury. There are in practice much more complicated situations, you're absolutely right and all your colleagues and patients know, as we know and vice versa. The basic human right is embedded, it is also guaranteed in the Constitution, and there is no reason to have such a discussion that further makes it difficult for us to make things very difficult, especially for doctors in such situations as they are. We speak when the patient is conscious. Sometimes he's unconscious. Please, this basic human right cannot be questioned. It's one of the axiomas of real patients and it's used by doctors. Just think for a second, you all know this well who you were in practice, the consequences of 19 years of medicine, when doctors were also doing everything they could, so they killed Gogol among other things because they treated him with leeches. So, simply a doctor always, with all due diligence, must be aware of the limitations of the medical condition and he has no right to error, unfortunately. The patient, at the cost of his own life, has the right to a mistake, but that right cannot be questioned. Thank you all for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16580	Thank you. Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16581	Thank you very much. I can't agree with you, you're wrong. A patient can go to a certain limit in that decision, but he can't ask a doctor to participate in a murder, in death. It can't be here. That's the end. No law can bring it, and the patient can say – I won't inject, I won't heal, I won't leave. No problem, he's conscious. What you're saying right now would be the same thing, a patient dying in pain of some severe cancer disease, in severe pain, you can say – it's humanely helpful to help him die, give him something to die. It's euthanasia. That exclusive right about life and death has itself. That's right. He's got that right, whether he kills himself or not. But the patient is not aware of his condition, even if he signs to receive blood in some situation, he's not aware he can die. Maybe not, maybe not, maybe not, maybe it won't really happen to me, so I'll take a chance on these or those reasons. I, as a doctor, am in this situation, that at that moment, when necessary, I participate in his death. You can't expect that from a doctor. There's no law here. There's that Primm non-nights, what you said, primarily do no harm. They'll get any help there, no matter what the patient signed before, or said he'd get out of the hospital. After that, cruelly speaking, he can jump out the window, he can hang himself on a tree, he can do anything, but as long as he's under the authority of the doctor, while he's under my authority, I'll help him anyway, regardless of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16582	Thank you. Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16583	I've expressed respect for the dilemmas of doctors, but I'm not telling you my opinion, and in that sense I can't be right or wrong. This is something that has been discussed for several decades and it is an undivided conclusion that doctors, I speak as a patient, not as a doctor, understand me, the doctors helped me, they saved me from such a difficult situation, I know what I'm talking about, but we don't have the right, as a legislative body, no one has the right, that's what the legislators of the countries who have been conducting this discussion for a long time. They say – we do not have the right to burden additionally but with the existing burden of doctors. The patient can't be in the doctor's care. I understand, there's one limit, it's not about these examples. Maybe it's right that we don't scare doctors or patients. I totally understand, it's so human this whole discussion. So there are limits in which the basic human right of the patient is exclusively his right at the time of treatment, not what he will do when he leaves the hospital in such a state or condition. It is not something to discuss, except in professional circles that may take a different view once, but now ethically in all developed countries is uniquely resolved, that it is an inalienable right and no one has the right to take it upon himself, with as much goodwill and expertise as he has. That's basic law. Thank you all. I just remind you of what's in the world.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16584	Thank you. Dr. Alexander Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16585	All I have to do is lean on an esteemed colleague. When people were trying to get to the truth, to see who was right, the patient or the doctor, then you have ten dying cancers that are already at the end of a terrible pain, then they put ten in the room and they put each one on the back of the tablet and they said, "You take this one pill, it won't hurt you, you'll take two sleeps, you'll take three dead." No one's had three.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16586	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16587	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mrs. Secretary is out right now. I wish she was here. A little, a little bit, so the MPs have some laws that have a little more problems, some less, some a little more spelling issues. The most common problem that arises in these laws is whether something is written or given by written means. That's one of the most common problems. It's just, I have to say, the law can be unwritten and it can be written. A written law can be written or illiterate. That's what the Serbian-language spelling says. I taught a school where it was very clear and precise. Anything, of course, can be common. The answer you sent to my parliamentary group, which concerns this particular problem, is that you asked for the opinion of the Language Standardisation Department, and I can't believe anyone wrote that. Of course, everything can be normal, but that does not mean that we should not apply what is still in force, which is a Serbian spelling. I especially say that from the position of someone who saw the results of a trial class exam for eighth grade students enrolled in high school, and saw the devastating results of their spelling skills. I must say that here last year, when laws were passed in the field of education, it is often said that the minister of education had to give instructions to admit the answers in the last exam -- Jovan Jovanovic the Dragon written in a small letter, asking that spelling be disrespected. He says, at this point, it wasn't a spell question, it was a matter of being asked. It's really scary if such a tall home, such as the Assembly, skips to comment on this and it's really scary if laws that aren't written come from the ministry. It is common, according to the section's letter, to be said in writing. It may be common, but it's not right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16588	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16589	Just a small contribution. So, in writing or in writing? It's a phone book. Maybe even viewers don't know that much, but in legal terminology, there's a phone book and it means the document that was written. You know, send it in writing to a certain address. It's a legal term. It can't be written, it can be written through the letters that are written. He can't go in writing. Do you understand me? The ones in the legislation, and you've told me on the board, who have advocated writing in writing, believe me, and here they are, through the transfer, that they have no idea what they're talking about. There's a document in writing, an expression in law. One text, one solution from the court that you refuse is a kind of writing. My complaint is written or written, I don't know how we're going to accentuate it. I can't write it in writing, I can write it in writing. I can create it in writing. You can write in a sentence – the patient can give consent, etc. explicitly, in brackets or in writing, and you can't go in writing. Do you understand me? You did not accept this, and with an indignity you rejected these amendments that refer you to language rules and explain even the legal terms that are rooted in our legislation. Not that they're wrong, but they have nothing to do with the brain.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16590	Thank you. Honored Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now, in accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a regular break for an hour. We'll continue our work at 1600 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16591	We're going back to work. Anyone else by amendment to Article 16? No, there isn't. ) The amendment was submitted to Article 16 by MP Vladimir Gordic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16592	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I have already spoken as an authorised debater regarding this law and this Article 17, which speaks of the right to consent, where the patient has the right to refuse the proposed medical measure, even if it saves or maintains his life. In the opinion of the DSS and my personal opinion, this is actually legalizing euthanasia and introducing euthanasia to a small door. To be clear, we are not apriorios against euthanasia, but euthanasia is a thing that goes beyond that that can only be spoken of within one member, one law. Now I'm not going to say here that this member of the law stands directly in the conflict with the Hippocratic oath, and it's somewhat inconsistencies. Because, you know, if you have a situation where, in the event of a car accident, one of the most ordinary passersby of the sea and is obliged to provide emergency medical attention, and if he does not, then he is subject to criminal prosecution, the doctor should only agree in case the patient does not accept the medical measure and make an official note about it. The very inconsistencies of this law are also referred to by Article 18, which derogates what is prescribed by the previous member, and says – if the legal representative of the child, i.e. the patient of the deprived business capacity, is not available or rejects the proposed emergency medical measure, an emergency medical measure can be taken if it is in the best interest of the patient. What do we see here? In this inconsistencies of things, a large platform is being created for the wide possibility of interpretation and is being created, practically one supplement to confusion in this law. So that people, or doctors, will interpret this member in a way that suits them. That's why I'm very sorry that this member wasn't deleted as proposed by the DSS. We have seen here in reason that he has not been deleted and that the amendment has not been accepted because you here have called on the European Charter of Patients' Rights, where it is the duty of a competent healthcare professional to warn the patient of the consequences of the rejection of the medical measure, in accordance with the principles of the right of patients of the World Health Organization in Europe. I don't think this is enough and this is a step in the wrong direction, so I'd like this article deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16593	Pursuant to Article 17 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure submitted by the Committee on Health and Family. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16594	The Committee's amendment, as well as three other amendments, has been accepted and is now in the government. We accepted them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16595	Thank you. Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Đerić, Dubravka Filipovsi and joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Rasković Ivić and Milos Aligrudić. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Article 23 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Health and Family Committee. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. The word has a Mrs. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16596	This amendment has been accepted by the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16597	Thank you. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 24th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16598	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's another one of those amendments that the DSS really wrote the amendment on, considering it to be one of the key ones in this law. He refers in attitude 1 – a child who has turned 15, who is capable of judgment. Now we ask the question that was asked here – who is it, on what basis does it estimate that the child is capable of judgment? Is this a doctor, a nurse, a minister, entitled to the confidentiality of the information contained in his medical records. In Section 2, you say the doctor is obliged to get to know that information, you say legal counsel. I understand that it's a legal term, but it just kind of makes my ears mate that there's no mention of a parent around here who should be mentioned in my opinion instead of a legal representative who's one legally impersonal term. So, the doctor is obliged to get to know the legal counsel with this information only if the health or life of the child is at stake. Again, we are deprived of knowing who it is that estimates that the life or health of the child is denied and at which point it is estimated. Is the moment something goes wrong? I have to say, by law, some other laws in Serbia, and we ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says that the child is a person up to the age of 18. According to these other laws, we can't let this 18-year-old person buy an alcoholic drink, we can't let her buy, say, cigarettes, but we'll let her make decisions that can have lasting consequences for her life, or we'll simply come up with a situation that will affect her later life. It seems to me that we here can talk about us actually giving children the right, it seems to me that we are taking down the degree of protection that every child should have based on that same convention. Furthermore, some other laws in Serbia say next. A parent is legally responsible for his underage child until he turns 18, the Convention says again. It seems to me that this law is now taking away the right of a parent to act according to the laws of this country, but on the other hand, right at the moment when a child has a problem, for 15 years it is an adolescent, they are always very dramatic to address some of their internal problems. So, right now, a parent can't do his parental duty, but who's taking the job? Is the state taking over? He's not taking over the state. She's leaving to get rid of some anonymous, because we don't see anyone here who's taken over this duty, a doctor, a therapist, who's taking over this duty and under what conditions? Will the doctor agree to accept this duty? I just don't know. I've been very busy these days to collect as many documentation as I can in favor of the argument that I have and I've tried to get some data and they're saying, of course I'm explaining my amendment and my argument, Dr. Zeljic thinks it's too much concern that this solution will open the way to the irrational desires of girls for aesthetic procedures, because it's one of the options at that point, because as everyone says they'll be rejected until they're 18 years old. Also, he believes that at age 15, there is little chance that a girl will provide 2,000 euros for the aesthetic installation of silicones or something else. For example, experts in aesthetic surgery have a different opinion and experience. They say this - the truth is that girls come to us at 15, 16 or 17 years old and ask for the installation of silicones or other aesthetic interventions. But we're always looking for an ID card and we're determining adulthood. So what if it's not moral to show up now if the kid accepts his responsibility? Then he says like this -- there's been attempts to do some of those kind of interventions before we were old enough to plant other people's ID cards, but we're very careful. Our team makes up women and we're all parents and we're absolutely opposed to this solution; of course, this solution that we're talking about here. So you're saying that this is a solution that you've offered precisely for those situations and for those families that have problems, that is, for children who don't have support in their families. It seems to me that society, of course, needs to take on its own kind of responsibility, its role and to provide, above all, counselling, to provide professional assistance to other experts, but that it cannot in this way share a family on one side, on the one hand, a child. Family and child are up to 18, as far as I'm concerned, one thing. I'm not talking about not having a child right at all, but I think this is a very serious thing. In a family law where the term "Child Development", article 62 stands like this – a child who has turned 15 and who is capable of reasoning can give consent to taking over medical procedures; so he can. He's not saying anywhere that it's already on its own and that this decision of his must be respected. It seems to me, I still have a lot of these materials that I've collected, that maybe it's time for us to all seriously agree on what needs to be done in our society. Are we definitely going to stop thinking that the family is the basis for the development of this society, which I'm not sure and I'm not advocating, maybe she's in crisis right now, but the laws are also bringing her into crisis, or are we just going to put her under the influence that she's a child, the right child, and that no longer a parent has to have any kind of roles in the development of a 15-year-old child? On the other hand, the lawyers also interpret this view of yours, this Article 24, paragraphs 1 and 2 in a completely different way and the convention itself in a different way than how you explained it here. I'm going to ask my colleague to try to help with the legal work. But as far as I'm concerned, sociological and psychological, I'm not sure we're on our way here. We simply accepted instant solutions. By that I think the trend is one in society that children absolutely have all the rights, but here we're not talking about rights at all. How is it the right of a 15-year-old who can't buy alcohol to make that kind of decision? So we think it's mature to make a decision that will affect life, but on the other hand, we don't think it's mature enough to buy cigarettes, where's the logic? I'm saying this may be very emotional, but I think this society really needs to think and come to the conclusion of what it wants, in which direction it develops both society and family and child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16599	The word has a minister, Dr Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16600	Since we have accepted the amendment of the Committee, all positions except for the first and second, and the amendment to the third position could not theoretically come into consideration for acceptance, I am talking about Article 23. (Snezana Stojanović-Plassic: Article 24) We're on Article 23. In Article 24? Since you have asked a question about medical measures and the child's 15-year-old initiative, which may require some aesthetic intervention, a medical measure is proposed by an expert. So, no girl, boy, no one who is 15 years old, no medical measure in the area of prevention, diagnosis, therapy and rehabilitation is seriously assessed by competent experts and this law and these provisions apply to this particular segment. So when experts suggest, a child under our family law in all the elements of life that concern him has the right to participate, it is also in line with the acts we adopted and it participates. Experts estimate when it is the child's best interest to inform both guardians, or parents, and the guardian is by definition and parent, in accordance with our family law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16601	Replica, Milica Vojić-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16602	Here I'm just telling you that among the experts there is a controversy about this article 24. I have a bunch of documentation that experts are running this particular controversy and that maybe we don't hold that we're experts in that part, but if experts have one hindrance and no one's speaking out in favor of this member, I'm not sure we're on the right track.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16603	I have to delete the list, just one moment to write it down. The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16604	So, the 15-year limit has been set by family law, and we can have initiatives that have obviously caused controversy among experts. For the largest number of aesthetic interventions, plasticists claim that until the age of 18, they are not actually accepted, even when it comes to aesthetic interventions. However, what is the essence, the 15-year-old limit is not authentically originally defined by this law, is taken over by family law and we can think about making appropriate initiatives on the subject, if we think our children are now a little different than they were in 2008 when we all came together.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16605	Thank you. Since I'm full of this list, I'm just going to read the order, so you know I'm not gonna skip anyone. Now comes Sanda Raskovic, so Olgica Batic, Predrag Mijatovic, Milos Aligrudić and Snezana Plavisic. The word is made by MP Sanda Raskovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16606	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to owe much, because my colleague, Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic, has already said quite a lot, but I would like to simply rely on what the Ministerial Health said. In fact, the minister said this isn't about medical measures that don't suggest a child, but that the doctor and I can agree on. But what I can't agree on is this 15-year-old limit where a child capable of judgment has the right to the confidentiality of the data contained in his medical records. A competent health care professional, despite the child’s requirement not to notify information about his health status to his legal representative, is required to inform his health care professional in the event of a serious threat to the life and health of the child. For me here, it's a dispute that this responsibility has been transferred from parents and family to a healthcare worker who is more or less a complete stranger to a child. And now, it is a health care professional who must see or assess whether a child is at risk of life or health. A 15-year-old child who stays in second condition and a girl who goes on abortion, a boy or a girl who gets gonorrhea and wants to stay between him and the doctor and that parents don't know it, some kid who's caught smoking marijuana, are now things that threaten life or things that threaten only health and that's completely left to the arbitration of the doctor who runs that child. In my opinion, it's not good because that's how you break up a family. I know, as a psychiatrist, I've had a lot of cases in my office where children didn't have a very good relationship with parents who were strict and where the doctor had to intervene, but, one thing is the intervention of doctors and joint dating parents with a problem that had a child, and the other thing is the law of secrets that could later become major life problems, the law of secret children as something that's most normal and thus the introduction of further pathology, the giving of cards blansch, means further pathology that can develop from this. I don't think it was necessary for this member of the law to be introduced and prescribed because UNICEF requires it and because it has been introduced in some EU countries. The other day, I consulted with my fellow doctors in Italy, where I was also an ambassador for a while, and I wondered if there was a member like this in Italy. They told me they didn't have it. So, up to 18 years old, the child is underage and the parent is responsible for all his actions, no secrets, and the parent has to be familiar with everything that happens to the child. In that sense, the DSS and my little bit of thinking that it would be best if we simply deleted this article 24. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16607	The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16608	During the drafting of an act that is before you, those provisions of the 2005 Act which have not shown any real problems, we have not really questioned, especially those that no one has pointed out during the public debate. So these are the attitudes that have been in our legislation since 2005. The change and the ideas that we have here that would really require the amendment of certain members of the family law and the Health Protection Act can indeed, once again, be our joint initiative stemming from this debate, which apparently has a pro et contra argument. There are those who believe that a child at the age of 15 is really up to that extent able to decide on his health and what kind of selection he will make and what his therapist should know and what his parents or parents want to know, that when you listen to such an argument, you simply put yourself in a position to arbitration. In any case, our tendency wasn't to change those members who had nothing negative in practice. Of all the things we fear very well and can be a problem, there were no problems in practice from 2005 to today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16609	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16610	I can sort of agree with my predecessors, my colleagues from the DSS and part of what the minister said. Since it's all over and said and there's been a lot of debate here about this child's age limit, in order for it to have the right to confidentiality of data, first of all I have to point out that here all these 12 rights, it seems to me that they should be equal and neither of them should be hierarchicalally subordinated. In that sense, in Article 24, I have to point to this discrepancy of termology. Namely, this bill states: "The competent health care professional, despite the child’s demands that information about his health be not disclosed to his legal representative," means, I will point out in particular, "he is obliged that in the event of serious dangers to the life and health of the child, information about his health should be made known to his legal representative. Member of the 11th of this same bill, I only point to this imperfect terminology in the whole of the law, which regulates the right to notification, Article 6 states that in the process of exercising the right to healthcare, a child who is capable of judgment, identical to a member of the 24th, as well as his continuation, regardless of the years of life, has the right to confidential counselling and without parental consent when it is in his best interest. In some of the views of many members of this law, it is said somewhere "parent", somewhere "legal representative", so I think it can be done to bring the law into line in order to make it completely accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16611	Thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16612	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I must admit that I would agree with the previous two MPs who spoke of the 15-year-old border. I can't accept that 15-year-old limit as an expert, but it's now legal. However, there are now certain dilemmas, professional dilemmas. We know he's a 15-year-old kid in eighth grade. Just before you heard about some cosmetic interventions, however we are coming into a situation, especially gynecologists, to meet with 15-year-old girls who stayed in a different state. That's exactly what you mentioned. Why am I saying that? We have two laws here now. One law that we pass today, or one member of the law, which is that the child has the right to decide, as you have said, on the proposed intervention, on the proposed measure. So, the girl's pregnant, the doctor's suggesting a pregnancy break, let's assume. On the other hand, we have another law that we have adopted, which is the Law on Interrupt Pregnancy, which was passed earlier, which says that pregnancy can be interrupted in a minor with the consent of parents under the age of 16. So the border is 16 years old. The question arises, by which, and I have already asked you, and you have answered me and told me – the proposed measure. Right, the proposed measure is to end pregnancy. A 15-year-old girl has the right to decide for herself whether or not to stop her pregnancy on the proposed basis. It's under this law. Under the second law, now in force, in a positive law, a doctor cannot perform a pregnancy termination unless he has the consent of a guardian or a parent if the child is under 16 years of age. That means I have to ask for parental consent. What law and regulation will the gynecologist in Serbia comply? Whatever regulations he applies, or whatever he does, one of these two laws will be broken. If he does an end to pregnancy at 15 and a half years old, he is responsible under the law he says – he must have parental consent because the child is not 16 years old. If he doesn't, then the girl has the right, through the protector of the patient's rights, to sue him for not acting, because she has the right to decide for herself. Don't tell me again - the proposed measure. The proposed measure is the termination of pregnancy. What does a gynecologist do? What law to break or has a law that has more meaning? What law is under what law? Is it more important now that we're making, or is it more important that the law that's been in force so far? What law will a gynecologist follow? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16613	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16614	Pregnancy interruption is not preventive, it is not diagnostic, it is not therapeutic and is not rehabilitation measures. Therefore, the Law on the procedure of termination of pregnancy in a health institution is regulated by a special law and respect for this law is in fact a guideline for the proper application of our country's legislation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16615	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16616	All right. In this Article 24, that is very, very interesting. That's where you ask a lot of questions. The first question of children's ability after 15 years of age is that they can take some steps themselves in their lives, that in a particular segment, a particular sector of their own life takes care of itself. That question will always cause controversy and we will always have different interpretations. It's one thing we think about it, the other thing is what our country has already taken over as an international commitment, the third thing is whether we're on our way to taking a commitment, etc. But what I had was a question for you on the Committee itself, and what I still have today, and that's what's left to float in the air. It's a very simple question. You admitted that this provision was mechanically prescribed from an international document, and in the context of domestic law, the rights of patients, I want to ask you what this provision of Article 24 basically means? You in the first position say, quote – a child who has turned 15 and who is capable of reasoning has the right to the confidentiality of the information contained in his medical records. What's he saying right now? So everything in the chart, for a person who turned 15 years old, is automatically considered to be his confidential information. Because, it's said, he's right. When someone has the right to something, then the law, by guaranteeing him that right, takes it to be one of his general traits, or a special feature in relation to the particular thing. So he has the right to the confidentiality of the data. The question then arises – does a child under the age of 15 have the right to the confidentiality of the data? By legal interpretation of the text you wrote, it turns out there is no, and I will prove to you very simply that every person who is the subject of the right, and that is the newborn, has the right to the confidentiality of the data. So, a newborn who still doesn't know he exists, doesn't know about himself, has failed to express himself in life as a real subject in mutual communication, it's a right entity and has the right to confidentiality of data. But now the question arises: Who is the protector of his right to the confidentiality of the data? Protectors are legal agents. So, even a 12-year-old, eight, three-month-old person has the right to the confidentiality of his data, the only question is, how, through which instrument does it protect its right? That right doesn't come from this law, whatever you write. This right stems from other norms adopted by this Parliament and what international conventions we have signed have meant. Now the question arises – what do you want with attitude 1, what do you want with this provision? To establish a special face-right over the age of 15 to the confidentiality of the data? If that's what you want, it's completely pointless, because it's the right of that person already automatically has the provisions of this same law that speaks of patients' rights, regardless of age. It's just a question of how he'll exercise his right. What did you want with this norm? Now let's get to it. This sign doesn't mean anything. And what might you have wanted? You might have wanted to say that a person over the age of 15 may want, may want or need to protect his medical records and to those who have a legal obligation to take care of that child. And to the parents. Maybe that's what you wanted. And you probably wanted to. From the discussion we had, it turns out that's the way it is. However, if that is the case and if your position is true, your position in attitude two, where you say the competent health care professional, i.e. the one who receives the child in the office decides upon the child's request whether or not the information will, practically, hide from the parents, then it turns out that there is a child's request. It then ruins your idea, if it was, about the general protection of children's confidentiality over 15 years old, because then that means that every child has to make a request to protect his data against his parents. Compared to my parents, I'm not talking to the third person in the world, I'm talking to my parents. He has to make such a request, because if he doesn't make it explicitly, that means that this information will be available to parents, regardless of attitude one. That's what the next one comes out of. There's no general ban on parents to look into their children's medical records over the age of 15, in order for that ban to be imposed by a child alone, they have to make a request. Is that what you wanted? If that's what you wanted, I agree. But there's one other thing I disagree with here, and that's the way it's real or that request is being realized. If that's what you wanted, then how do you do it? I don't think he drinks water, that it's a thin thing here that a doctor of a particular specialty, or a doctor of general practice, because it's a specialty, will be in a position to judge a few things. First, the ability to reason. That's to say that in some way he can, but he's bound to do that, too, to estimate not only from the medical aspect of what you've put in his charge here, to see if it's something that's dangerous for the patient's life or for his health. You say – and, but these are practically two things, cumulative. Secondly, it must assess and justify demands. That doesn't say, but that justification requirement must also be assessed in any other case. I don't think access to this is good. We can't burden a doctor to do something that basically would have to do in front of a guardian's body or some psychologist at school or at the end of the day, some health psychologist, but who has a certain legal role in such procedures. If you wanted to give this member the general right to the confidentiality of information to parents, you must be aware of the senselessness of it. There's no point in the international conventions we've adopted. We speak and claim you are responsible that a three-month-old baby is a subject of law and is a subject of rights under our Constitution and has the right to confidentiality of information, only a legal representative will take care of it. What do you think, without responsibility, is a parent who, for his five-year-old, reports data from his file? No, he has a responsibility for what he's doing and it's not right. A child who turned 15 has a situation in my life when he can ask for confidentiality from his parents, we will not argue about it. There is also a sea in our law to find a mechanism, after all, without any opposition from the parents of children. How the child will protect himself from a potentially awkward and dangerous situation, but I'm not sure what you wrote here reflects one or the other understanding, in a valid way in the legal sense of that word. Nor do I see any other intensities as to how they will be implemented in a successful manner? Instead of mechanically copying the provisions of certain conventions, it was necessary to sit down, take into account our legislation and adapt the provision to the correct objective. There were several ways, one opportunity was to say not to write this nonsense, that the child who turned 15 is capable of reasoning and has the right to the confidentiality of the data, I suppose the one who is not able to reason has the right to confidentiality of the data? There is. I guess what's not capable of judgment has the right to confidentiality of data. Well, there is. So there's a question - relative to who? If you are already asking the question that this is in relation to the legal representative, let's see when, under what circumstances and in what way the right is realized and then we have a serious conversation on the subject, and we have a doctor here in the Assembly, let the person who considers himself able to make a very objective and valid solution, one decision about not telling parents something simply because that child asked for it. There's got to be some objective criteria. An objective criterion can be found in persons who have a degree in such a thing, who are psychologists by their profession, pedagogicals and who can, by law, be this or some other, not even this law, it can be a law in the field of custody of children, who will be placed in jurisdiction, if health is, by emergency procedure, after talking to the child, to assess whether this information is truly legitimately confidential. I'm saying again, if you wanted to do the first thing, to make all the data generally confidential for people over the age of 15, it's first in practice pointless, because the largest number of people 95% of us, who were once young, turned puberty, became full-aged at 19, 20, 99.9% of us always have parents, someone close to you believed that there was a doctor, that there was a need. For this small percentage that's missing to complete the picture, where there's a real threat, there must be a real procedure. So I really don't see the possibility of doing something like this unless you want us to challenge it. I don't know who we're challenging. I don't know what this is all about. So that's the essence of the question. You don't have to convince us that there are exceptional cases where a child has the right to hide from his parents or legal counsel some fact. It's a matter of elemental logic, it's a matter of common sense. But the question of the mechanism is, how do we really protect him? Because if we say Constitution 2 here that the competent health care professional is obliged to report to his legal representative in case of serious dangers to the life and health of the child, and he appreciates it, at the previous request of the child to hide these data, that information about his health status is made available to his legal representative, you will in practice have the situation that a competent health care professional for the same disease in one home of health assesses that the child's request is justified, that this disease is not so dangerous to his health or cannot endanger his life, and in another home of health, perhaps even in a large system such as Belgrade, in another home of health, acting as a general medicine specialist, it can assess that this circumstance is such that it must be announced to parents. Listen, there's got to be a criterion. If we leave it to such arbitration of the treating doctors, we have burdened them with it. There are people who do their job responsibly, who are seriously worried about him. You've heard examples my colleagues mentioned a little bit. So, in order not to be misunderstood, we are not any people who want to prevent the possibility or shut down the opportunity for children to show their need and protect themselves in certain situations. But we need to see exactly what procedure they're going to do, and the general approach that 15-year-olds generally have the right and the automatic right to keep everything in the file secret for their parents, there's no need for those who are watching this transmission either to convince you what nonsense that is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16617	The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16618	I'd like to start by having this member copied from the Ottawa Declaration, the Lisbon Declaration and the UN Child Rights Convention, because it's actually contained in all three documents. It was done in 2005. It can be absolutely decadent from point to point. We analyzed it. I think we've talked a lot on this subject on the board and the way you've elaborated it today is the same way that we understand the content of this member of the law. What is a fact, it is that the family law gives rise to this 15-year-old limit, when a child can indeed be from a legal representative, provided that it is not life-threatening and that its safety and health are not seriously compromised, and that it is estimated not by someone else, but by a competent person, a doctor, therefore, has the right to the secrecy of data from medical records. I think we agreed here somewhere. It is a 15-year limit below, or above which the right of the child to assess together with parents or independently what it will be just the information that matters to him, and what it will be is the information that needs to be introduced, therefore familiar with the parent. It's the essence and it's contained in all of these three documents. I don't think there's a country that doesn't have this provision. But the same thing I said earlier, if we think that no matter what happens since 2005, without any consequences for children of 15 years of age or older, I note that the World Health Organization has said that the child is up to 18 years old, so if we estimate that the 15-year-old limit is not adequate, we may be able to discuss it differently, but as we understand it, the legal representative, because it was one of the dilemmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16619	The word has Dr Predrag Mijatovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16620	I'd like to go back to what I just said, exactly the replica of the Minister. After all, if I understand what you're saying, there's an older law on termination of pregnancy. This means that gynecologists can request the approval of parents or guardians, not to comply with this law that we are now introducing, but because it is a serious surgical intervention, which can disrupt child health, with long-term consequences, that means that in that case it should still be allowed by parents or guardians, means that this law is older and it then repeals this provision of this law that we are now passing. It's one possibility, or we could use one brilliant legal lock like Mr. Aligrudić just said, so we could blow it all up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16621	The word has Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16622	We can't miss it. I don't think it's a good idea for MPs to formulate something that might be replaced by a term -- to distinguish. This law does not treat pregnancy termination issues. A special law treats this issue completely, and that's why we won't waste anything. I would really ask that we do not make confusion with our citizens who, at least of us doctors and lawyers, above all, understand both terminology and essence as we do, do not make confusion. There's no reason here, this is quite clear. So this law doesn't even treat the issue of termination of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16623	The word has a folk MP Milos Aligrudic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16624	I'll try as short as I can. Madam Minister, the point here is not whether or not we want it to be a 15 or 16-year limit for some rights, but it's something else entirely, a text of the norm that's written and that can be interpreted differently. If what you just said is true, then it's absolutely true and what I said. If true, delete Article 24. I'll explain why. If you delete it, I ask you a question – did you say that children over 15 years of age do not have the right to the confidentiality of data? You're not. Same case as Article 23. If we've deleted the insurance organisations, does this mean that insurance organisations have no right to conclude a voluntary insurance agreement and look at the documentation? It doesn't. If we delete Article 24, does it mean that children have no right to the confidentiality of data? It doesn't. If you delete the confusing norm, and you don't have one that's nicely woven and that solves this problem in a very elegant way, it's better to remove it, and it's even better to remove attitude 1 and leave attitude 2, so that it reads like this. – the competent healthcare professional despite the requirements of a child over 15 years of age, that information about his, etc. be kept. If you wrote that, there wouldn't be any problem. From that standard, then it would be clear. This is how you introduce confusion, contradictory 1st and 2nd attitude to yourself and completely pointless in relation to the general rules on confidentiality of information and the relationship of legal counsel to children. So we don't have that amendment, we had an amendment to erase it. But then don't experience erasing as an absolute opposition to the tendency to protect one, even the opposite. If you make a confusing norm, then even those whose norm is designed to protect their interest will not be able to protect it, and we will see how it works in practice, regardless of the day of voting, whatever the deadlines for amendments have expired. (President: Time. I'll be right there. The time is before us, very close, in which you can intervene as a proposer by amending this provision.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16625	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16626	It's completely taken shape since 2005. Time is ahead of us, I agree completely. So far, there's been no problem with this member. If there is, I suggest we change it together, wipe it out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16627	According to the Rules of Procedure, Dr. Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16628	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Minister, imported colleagues and colleagues. I point out the violation of Article 106 where the speaker can speak only in the first position about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. I really can't understand that there are one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight rows - eight rows has two sides. In eight rows of two positions, i.e. in the first and second attitudes, it is said and it is written that "a child who turned 15". What does that have to do with a three-year-old or three-month-old kid? I can't understand that someone's been trying so hard, as soon as he told his colleague, the legal locks, to turn us all around here, definitely. So the competent healthcare professional is someone who's in charge. It cannot be a competent orthopaedic analysis of the psychosomatic condition of the child. That's the authorities. If the minister had written – responsible, then she would have been a legal lock if she were not responsible but a superior. There's only eight rows, I don't see why it's so confusing. A 15-year-old child has the right to the confidentiality of information. We're talking about it, which is why I'm pointing to a violation of the Rules of Procedure, of a kid who's three months old. Let's talk about a kid who's three days old, who's entitled to it, and how's he gonna put up a protest on his parents and the court of law? Please, let's get back to the subject. That's not the point. What you're saying is legal, it's great, but it's not a topic. The theme is two positions and eight rows short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16629	I just have to say that I think Mr. Aligrudić said that in context, explaining only the essence of his position. But I don't want to be his lawyer, 'cause he answered his word anyway. So, I think he was sticking to the subject. Let us all continue to discuss the agenda. I've got Mr. Nebojsa Zelenovic, registered, by amendment? Just to establish the base. So, according to the amendment. Mr. Aligrudic has the right to reply, and that is fine by Mrs. Snezana Stojanović Plassic, as amended. The word is Mr. Aligrudic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16630	It's just because of the public, I don't feel any personal need to know that speakers here are mostly talking about what's on the agenda, it's always the case for me. If we talk about the position of the legislator, who says – a child who has spent 15 years of his life, who is capable of reasoning, has the right to the confidentiality of the data, I have proved that the attitude is pointless because everyone has the right to confidentiality of the data. Then I said that if that attitude wanted to make it classified against the legal advocates, that it should have been written differently. I don't know which acrobatic mental, or verbal, I can say this in any other way than the one I said. How can I express my view that is contrary to what is written in the bill, if I do not give an example described and give an argument to the contrary? I don't see how I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure, speaking of the subject and the bill. I don't see what anyone's excited about and with what right is that I'm giving lock-ups from the legal norms. I have rights to lockup cases, because I'm a locksmith. He who can heal well and does bravourous work, and simply shows his knowledge in the field of medicine bravoriously, I congratulate him on that. Believe me, I don't know anything about treatment procedures.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16631	Replica Dr. Zoran Radovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16632	Thank you. Dear President, the Honorable Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I've only tried to explain that they are totally unnecessary, in my view and understanding, to this kind of discussion. If you pay attention, one part of the discussion I called on earlier, the minister repeatedly reiterated that this law, or this member of the law, does not refer to a termination of pregnancy. It doesn't apply to the termination of pregnancy. What legal lock do I have with a pregnancy and a three-month-old child, I came to a child by the age of 15? I understand everything, but let's get back to the subject and talk about the law. I'll try to quote one MP, who says - I actually wanted to challenge this, and then this doesn't work, and then this doesn't apply, the second attitude goes first, the second one goes, and that's a lock. No, it's not, it's dancing. It's called playing with members of the law. We're talking about an important thing, whether children of 15, and how to solve it, how to sublegal acts on your part to give the idea to the ministry, to give some example of how to solve it, and not – the first, second, first, second, as if we have something. I really don't understand. I think that was the point, if you understand me. The point of my apparition is that locks are too locky and steps are too complicated. Simply eight rows that are repeatedly explained what they specifically refer to in this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16633	According to the Rules of Procedure, Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16634	According to the Rules of Procedure, the violation of article 107, Mr. Chairman, which you have done in the past two minutes. Namely, out of the presentation of a national MP, who reacts inappropriately to the presentation of other MPs, demeaning their statements, which you have previously assessed, reacting to the breach of the Rules of Procedure, that they are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that they represent the most ordinary discussion with a very simple and simple argument. So, who continues in his argument that in his terms and statements he demeans MPs, he fits in with a negative formulation of the provisions of Article 107. You were obliged to interrupt the previous speaker, warn him, and not allow him to spend 120 seconds mutilating those who strive to speak of this law in the right way and try to make some quality suggestions. That's why you disrespected not only this home but also those citizens who chose us as MPs here to do a responsible and good job. In what we talked about, there was no politics, there wasn't even any party acuity, we have a lot of places where we're going to be politically different. This is about one very important thing about all citizens. We can see it in different ways, but we can't belittle each other. Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16635	I believe that during the discussion of the previous speaker, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, or I did not hurt him. The previous speaker, using his argument, tried to tell you in the replica why he thought your exposure was off-limits. In the argument he used, he did not use offensive terms and expressions. The way he put it is something that, like you chose words to express your views, he chose the words he did it to. Sure, I think there's still a lot of amendments to this and the next law ahead of us. I think we should get back to the agenda. I give the word to Snow White Stojanović Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16636	I'd like to thank you, if I'm up. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another very important member of the law and subject that, no doubt, has raised a number of questions and differences between us. Unlike the previous amendment and the right to confidential counselling, which, I said, is a professional issue, and this certainly is a political issue. This is a question of the difference between whether we are inclined to approach a traditional, conservative way of thinking about the rights of children and young people, or whether we are ready to approach that approach a little more modern. I don't think that, as I said a moment ago, it's just international conventions that bind us to it. I think this debate, with the deepest understanding of its essence, is, among other things, an indication of how deep we are, traditionally, and I would say, authoritarian society. I am a parent and it is clear to me that most colleagues have discussed the position of parents and that most of the citizens, who are watching us, are also parents who are concerned about the health of their children, and that from that level somewhere they encourage all the controversy in the public on this issue. On the other hand, one of the basic principles when you decide someone who can't decide for himself, and children are, one of the basic principles is to ask them what they think about it. I wish we could, not today, it's impossible, in the course of a public debate or let's say on the Health Committee to organise a public hearing, where we would invite children of 15, 16, 17 to tell us what their arguments are. Knowing how smart and well - educated children are among them, I have no doubt that everything would be much clearer to us. But since we don't have their opinion, let's remind ourselves that we have an obligation to represent their opinion here. Ladies and gentlemen, parenting is not a matter of control. Parenthood is a matter of willingness to from the moment our children are born to train them for our own life and to train them to take their lives into their own hands responsibly. It's never easy. It's very difficult. Every separation of our children and growing up is a painful process for the whole family and for us as parents. Surely it's not easy for us to accept that our children have rights. There's a word here that family and child are one thing. They're not family and child one thing. The child is a child. Every member of the family is an individual to themselves, and the family, it's not a law, it's functional family relationships that involve mutual trust. What I heard here today is one deep mistrust of our children. Do our children really deserve such a relationship and such deep mistrust toward themselves? I don't think they deserve it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, let's turn this around, what do you as professionals, as MPs, think of the parents whose children come to you looking for some medical procedure without the knowledge of their parents? Is he talking about a child or is he talking about a parent? Why are you apriors starting from the fact that the child is going to want to hurt himself? Why do you start with that if you get a girl, let's take that example, I don't think she's the luckiest, how the minister repeatedly explained it, who wants to protect herself from unwanted pregnancy, and she didn't come with her parents, how do you feel about that parent? Does that say anything about him? What about trust in that family? Will you tell me that the child is responsible for this if there is no functional family relationship? If a child has no confidence in confiding in the person closest to him and the person who wishes him the best, his parent, what happens in that family, and what kind of parent is that after all? Let's put things that way. I advocate that children may have this right. I think it's one of their basic rights. After all, it is legally not true that the parent is responsible for all child actions until the age of 18. Children of 15, whether or not a colleague, can be prosecuted, can be held accountable for their actions. What we give them, allowing them with age to decide some of the things that concern them and which of course are different, depending on how old the child is, you'll let him wear what he wants at five years of age, and by 15 you'll let him decide on his health to some extent. It's the only way we're going to achieve that when he's 25 he's really responsible for his health and then we're going to solve those problems that we talked about today as systemic problems, which is a matter of health prevention. Otherwise, I said that this is a serious question of authoritarian opposition to democratic society, if you have someone you've been teaching for a year that you're the one who'll be responsible for each of his actions, that you're the one who controls each of his actions, you're depriving him of the possibilities and the right to take responsibility for himself. The person will expect his health to be cared for by the health minister, not by him. That's the logic I believe in, and that's why I think it's very important that our children take responsibility for their actions over time. After all, parents aren't always right. What about parents who, for their religious beliefs, forbid some procedure against their children? Does a child at 15 have the right to say no, I want to receive blood and I want to be treated? Since we're always worried about birth, let's ask the opposite question – what if the parents want that girl to end her pregnancy, and she thinks she wants to keep her? Then who are we going to ask? In this particular case, we have already said that this law does not apply and that the law that regulates that area will apply, but I believe that we can also trust doctors who will adequately assess whether or not this procedure threatens the health of the child. I don't see anything wrong with that. Since it provokes the subject, more or less, of sexual behavior in children with the assumption that what they want to protect from their parents, is it better if a child who already doesn't trust his parents, and I said that this is about dysfunctional family relationships, not being protected or going to a doctor where he has the right to get contraception and being protected from unwanted pregnancy? Is it better for a 16-year-old girl, and all the data tells us that the average age in which she gets into sexual intercourse is, like, 17-year-old girls, is a 17-year-old girl who doesn't trust herself to trust her parents can go to a doctor and ask for protection from unwanted pregnancy or should she be left on the street, to friends or to other people's advice? It was also said that secrets, children's secrets, were dangerous. They're not dangerous. The children have the right to their secrets and we must respect their privacy. This is one of the reasons why relationships between parents and children are often disrupted because we feel that our children do not have the right to privacy. Often you will hear advice from experts who say – spy on your children. Is that how you build a relationship of trust? If we spy on our children, then they won't want to tell us what's really important, that as someone closest to them in life with them solves problems. I think we've set a lot of things wrong here and that the solution that the law offers is not something that's prescribed, but something that we as a society need to understand, as a really necessary initiative, to change as a society, because as it is, it's still not good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16637	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16638	Just for the public. This tract has nothing to do with the amendment to Article 24, which the DSS parliamentary group wrote on this bill. The problem is that the legal solution to this article is not good. And all of this goes on and on about trust, building an authoritarian society, it wasn't our story, and we didn't write the amendment for those reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16639	The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16640	Just to make a contribution, not to leave one confusion with regard to the intensity of those who wrote the law and those who wrote the amendment. We're not at different jobs, no protection of authoritarian models, not at all. This is all about it – is what is written guaranteed for those who are subject to protection in this law? So, if the subject of protection is minors, is what's written here in their best interest and whether their protection is achieved by these. It was the subject of conversation. When we agreed during the plenary discussion and on the committee, it began to clarify what the intensity of the promoter is, whether to give a general ban on parents to have insight into child documentation over 15 years of age or not, so when we heard that "no", then the field of misunderstanding was gone, and a new misunderstanding in the part in which the mechanism for protecting those children for whom you say otherwise was established, you rightly claim that they have the right to certain protection and confidentiality of their data. This isn't about the extent to be taken, whether it's an abortion, whether it's anything else from a set of medical measures or procedures. This is about the right to the confidentiality of the information contained in the documentation and the assessment of how this confidentiality is realised in absolute terms for the older than 15 or 16 years anyway. We pointed out that the way this is written opens up several dilemmas, opens up several possible interpretations, and that no clear norm has been written regarding the real and exact procedure in which the child who is really in trouble or in a state of need to protect himself, even from his parents, will do so and who is to do so. We criticized that from this standard, everyone, and at any time, who specializes in any profession in the field of medicine... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... He'll have to give himself the right to react, and that, in our opinion, was incorrect.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16641	National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16642	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be brief, I won't mind the parenting tracts, which we've heard in the last 15 minutes. It's very important to me that we stick to this subject. Mr. Aligrudic wrote a quality amendment. I understand that we on the Health Committee have solved this, we have pleaded on the Health Committee on this amendment, that we have discussed that this provision, as it is now in the law, leads to doubt, but we all agreed on what you wanted to achieve and we all supported it. I expect some work here, in this first position, and then it'll be clear to everyone what the legislator was going to say here. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16643	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16644	The board took Mr Aligrudic's full documentation very seriously and did not vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16645	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Stojanovic Plassic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16646	I thank you, Chairman, perhaps you were able to react as well. I thank my colleagues. I would never address them in such a way, and I believe that the qualification of the tract, repeated by two of my colleagues, does not apply to my exposure, that I have clearly adhered to an amendment that speaks to children's rights over 15 years of age, that they have the right to the confidentiality of their data and to their legal guardians and parents. If it wasn't clear that my discussion was referring to it, I don't think it was my fault, and I ask that the MPs' presentations in the future be called inadequate terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16647	I can't react if it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but if it comes to the statement of one piece of Parliament, you have the right to an institution of replication. So, I have no right to get involved in this and to give evaluations of their exposure to anything else, because I would violate the Rules of Procedure. It's not my place to judge MPs if they don't use offensive expressions. The tract is not an offensive expression. You have no basis, she didn't mention you. Mr. Blazic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16648	Thank you. I won't be long. I get the impression that we got involved in this 24th-year-old chick in the house, and that usually happens when doctors want to discuss rights, and even worse when lawyers want to discuss medicine. I think everything can be pushed into absurdity, so this member, who has quite flexiblely put the problem through various, various explanations, has pushed himself completely into the absurd. This clearly states that responsibility is left to the doctor to assess whether a child at the age of 15 who, among other things, is able to judge, will be able to ask him to decide whether the documentation will be available to the parents at all. That's quite clear. Who else will decide if they don't want a doctor? Who else do we have to transfer that responsibility to? We can't put every living situation in law enforcement. We can't put every situation and disease in a different manifesto in some member of the law. Therefore, there is a doctor who assesses whether he will tell a patient what disease he is dealing with, assessing psychologically how he will react or how he will react to his parents. These are very complex things and they are made from individual to individual and it is a very complex decision of a man who has responsibility for his job who ultimately has to care about the child’s health. These are very simple things and very well flexible is written this article law that we are trying to, in a way, protect these young people who are often more educated today than their parents and can better judge how a thing will affect them and their parents. What happens if a child comes in and says he's had a concussion and don't tell his mother, she's sick, she has nervous problems or a heart disease, and now we're going to tell her. Well, we won't say. But it's from case to case. We throw everything in absurd and talk in general about everything and everything. So I think it's perfectly clear this and that we should, when we're talking further, and now through the next amendments, we're going to have the same and similar situations, to focus a little on life, because life has some other things, they're not rules. It's something that's left to the doctor to assess what's in the patient's interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16649	The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 25th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 27th amendment, in the same text, together were the MPs Zlata Đerić and Dubravka Filipovski and together MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Rasković Ivić and Milos Aligrudić. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16650	Not only is it in line with the Constitution and the legal system, but also with the spelling that is valid in the Republic of Serbia. We, of course, intervened again and made the difference between writing and writing, but I was already talking about it. I think all my colleagues have listened to it enough times, I think the minister and her associates have heard it too. It's all, he says, common. It is common for us, as a people, to have no knowledge of spelling and to confirm it very often. But I have to react here, since it's our amendment, and we don't have any more time. I come from Valjev, as a National MP, and the President of Parliament received the same letter, just before I was invited to the phone. We definitely, when we talk about patients' rights, especially children, we have to bear in mind that we have a group of children who especially need to be treated abroad, because they have no other way to cure themselves. At this point, I'm talking about a kid from Valjev, of course, without giving him his basics and everything. As long as we are as a society, in any way, both Parliament and the media and others take our hands to lead humanitarian actions to solve this problem, we will do nothing to protect the rights of the child. Gentlemen, we are talking so much about the rights of the child, and this child has no right to live and his family has to be involved in a humanitarian action that I've tortured four times, because he has four treatment terms and we need to seriously talk that we haven't systemically solved this issue and that I'm just asking Mrs. Minister for an opinion on all this. What are we supposed to do? To continue to organize ourselves in various ways as a society, parliament or others, or we will do something as a state and as a ministry and you as a minister, to definitely resolve this issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16651	Not only does this child need help, but he has a large number of children in Serbia who need help and the National Assembly has made a decision, I have agreed with the president of the Health Committee to hold a session of the committee on Wednesday to formally propose the establishment of a working group that, of course, using the knowledge of experts and MPs, will deal essentially with the systematic search for a solution. In conversation with the ministry, we will try to reach the best possible models to ensure that children are able to be treated. Whether this treatment is needed in Serbia or abroad, of course, will be assessed by the competent ones, or those who are the most professional for it, but to allow life to exist for those children. I think it's very important, and I support always coming forward like this. The word has been given by Parliamentarian Olgica Batic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16652	First of all, I fully agree with my colleague Milica Vojic Markovic. I'm glad to hear what you just said, Mr. President. Since this is about amendments submitted in the same text by different MPs, and as regards what is spelling and what is not, the word "written" is changed in the word "written" and in this direction goes all these technical amendments, I must point out exactly the fact that we have just received an opinion from the Government that has adopted certain amendment committees. Since the government probably knows better than we do, she said it's in writing, not in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16653	Both MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 28th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 29th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16654	Thank you. I thank you for accepting the amendment, although I am afraid that this amendment and the addition of this attitude will not change much. Otherwise, the title above this article is - the right to respect the patient's time. It looks like an impossible mission at the moment. I will read only the supplement: "In case there are no conditions for the medical measure to be given immediately, the patient has the right to schedule examinations, diagnostic procedures, as well as other medical measures and procedures... "and our supplement, as soon as possible. So this basically refers to the patient being immediately placed on a waiting list depending on the type of intervention. In the morning, I was talking about people waiting for cataract surgery. On April 15th, I have here from a daily newspaper of news that a very large number of people are waiting for cataract surgery, that over a year to a year and a half are on waiting lists. Doctors say this is due to the lack of material, or lenses, that several times a tender that ended in failure. Some doctors from some NGOs, but all patients are more inclined to think it's because private clinics have as much to do as possible. You also spoke to the public about the problem. This may be an opportunity to tell us if this problem will be solved in due course. Maybe even if he did, 'cause I'm talking about mid-April. Perhaps some measures have already been taken.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16655	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16656	The drug lists seriously compromise the functioning of Serbia's health system and are indeed one of the worse features that are negatively repercussed by Serbian citizens. What's a fact and what we've done so far is that on these lists, priorities mean that there can't be any waiting for someone who's going to have a deterioration in health function. So there are interventions, and diagnostic and therapeutic, where there is no significant change in the state of health in waiting, and this must really be taken into account, and this is our suggestion and republican expert committees are actively working on this issue. You mentioned cataracts. I'll be completely open. People's MPs and citizens of Serbia must know what caused it to be a stalemate and in this surgical intervention, for which an enormous number of ophthalmologists have been educated throughout Serbia. Simply, lenses were obtained during the previous period without additional elements for the completion of the intervention itself. One such unquality acquisition resulted in the fact that Serbia's Clinical Centre operated on several thousand cataracts annually, and that many secondary health institutions, hospitals across Serbia, which have extraordinary experts, were unable to do so. In fact, for ophthalmology, the Republic Expert Commission found the first reason and made a proposal for all competent professionals to be supplied in an adequate manner to all elements, which are also lenses and to add elements to the operation. We estimate there should be no problem in the next period. So I really think the situation is different. Where there are not enough tools to work, where there are not enough quality experts, our priority is to work on equipment and instruments and as quickly as possible education of experts. Where there are enough experts and the organization has been bad, we must openly say that it has been so and we must change. A cataract is an example that simply can't be a problem anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16657	The word is Dr Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16658	Thank you very much. With regard to this Article 29. Regardless of the amendment adopted and the Minister's explanation, we hope that you will work in the future to remove the waiting lists, Madam Minister. Now you've legalized it again. When the previous law was passed, waiting lists were introduced in this House, and in the last term it was discussed and we found it to be a source of corruption. Since we've all agreed that a corrupt regulation is under way, I hope that we should work to end it. You are now legalizing this because you point out that certain procedures require equipment, instruments, etc. are at stake. And that's why they have to form waiting lists. You are aware that waiting lists are not only formed in terms of radiation where certain appliances are needed, waiting lists exist also in medical branches where no special instruments are needed. You have a huge number of waiting lists for an intern review, which does not require any additional equipment etc. The EKG has all the hospitals, the pressure apparatus, too, and you have a situation to wait three to four months for an internal examination. So this explanation you've given doesn't stand in all segments. It's true in some segments. Even the last law provides the possibility that the waiting list can be accelerated or avoided if the examination is co-financed in some night clinics, night examinations, where doctors who are employed in the public service work work. So it's again forcing people who are able to pay extra and thus avoid waiting lists. No matter what you've done now, and have re-established the waiting list, I'd like to urge you to work on it and to ensure the conditions in our health care to avoid waiting lists for these reasons that I've mentioned to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16659	The word is Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16660	Dear President, dear Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, what the minister has now said to me franticly. This is something that I pointed out in parliament last year, to waiting lists for patients who need to operate on cataracts and there are more than 20,000 waiting in Serbia, who have literally lost sight, who cannot operate without a family member. So 20,000 Serbian citizens have a problem. The minister said what was the problem. So, to me, what I've heard is fraternizing. Some clinic directors made tenders so that tenders would be practically unsuccessful, so that waiting lists would be formed, so patients would switch to their private hospitals, i.e. The clinic. The conclusion leads me to it, and I'm sure that's it. Now I ask the question – are we as a Parliament that has every right to say that it is not good, that it is a crime and that we stand in the protection of our citizens to fire these directors, and those directors who have dared to see Serbia's health as not one sick or blind patient, but see it as 300 or 500 euros, transferred to their private office. So, let's start criminal charges against someone. Let's finally stop, really tell someone – someone was doing their job badly, someone was deliberately blowing up tenders, and someone deliberately knocked down those tenders to favor his ophthalmological clinic. That's true. Last year I was talking, I had the authority of a patient who gave it to me, I say - Dushan, be my medical lawyer, be my lawyer to get to the ophthalmology clinic, where they bring me back 20 times, where they lie to me just to transfer me to their private office. It's a crime on me. So, 99% of the people in the health care in the white coat are great and I represent the people in the white coat, but I don't represent the people in the black coats, and these are the doctors who crossed that red Hippocrates line, who don't see the patient as patients, but see him as money. What you said about me is frakking. I guess that's it, but now you're telling the truth. You're telling the truth now. You said the wait list for 20,000 citizens of Serbia was made by certain directors of health care institutions who had obtained some material for cataract surgery but it was not complete enough to do so to the end and that list was made to make it up to 20,000. As chairman of the Health and Family Committee, I seek the responsibility of the directors who made such waiting lists, who led Serbian citizens to be blind, only because they would like to be rich. Well, they can't get rich on a sick and poor citizen of Serbia and I demand responsibility for these and such people. These people don't deserve to wear a white coat, these people, I demand that they take responsibility for why they did it. I thank the management of the Clinical Centre, which replaced certain directors who made similar tenders, but I ask that it be the case of the court in Serbia wherever the tender was made, and it has been simulated to fail, in order for its private office or clinic to be favored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16661	The word is Dr. Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16662	I thank the president, a respected minister, a respected colleague, who was preceded by my colleague, Milisavljevic, was faster. As far as this story is concerned, both colleague Mijatovic and colleague Milisavljevic and I don't know who else spoke on the subject of this article 29. In one thing, I disagree with my colleague Mijatovic, so here, not us, the ministry, or we as the Assembly tomorrow, have not legalized these lists, and we've been leading this internal controversy for a long time, because I keep saying that there are procedures that are connected to the apparatus, related to time, so the passable power of the apparatus. He can't go to the patient at the same speed for an ORL doctor's examination and do a magnetic examination. I repeat that 159 times. On the other hand, what's a big problem is that these patients, what the minister just pointed out, patients who are heading towards Tertical Health and secondary send from eligible health care. So, patients for magnets or scanners we get from home health. I'm not calling patients. Come to me today at the Clinical Center and have a look around. They come with a regular manual, etc. And it's definitely true what we heard on all three sides. So, from the centre to the left, it is that there were and exist and there I agree and support the Minister and all the authorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because that is one of the objectives of this Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is the fight against corruption, wherever there is doubt. Please, as an MP, I said both in Nis and anywhere, to be said publicly, because I can't prove anything, if the patient says – Žika, Mika asked me for money for a private office, and we all know there is. So, the waiting list on the waiting list exists for something that has to. Not all can be done on the same day, co-examination or cornography, or some other procedure, but patients in the health care home can be examined in Meroshina, so if they don't have in Meroshina, I apologize for citing this example, so from there to Nis for a better health checkup, so if they don't know what to do to come to us. The ones in the middle of nowhere go straight to the clinical center. Is that Novi Sad, Belgrade, Nis or Kragujevac? Then there are throats where it closes and there's a crowd, and that's what the minister was talking about. There are a whole series of ophthalmologists in Serbia who can operate in hospitals, general hospitals. As I've pointed out on the case of every shift wherever I suspect that this variant is. That's true, you can check it out. So, there's no way, one of us is down there, up there or to divide Serbia to the right, there's the Pyrot region, he gave us space and gave us the authority to run something, and we answer to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to the Assembly of anyone, to the Ministry. It was the same as it was that we were around the bacteria yesterday or today. We find bacteria somewhere, we find it today, and from today, problem solving begins. So please, I think there's only one thing between me and my colleague, Mijatovic, and we just disagree that I don't think this is legalizing a list because for some things they have to exist. I repeat and finish, for the tenth time, so in Sweden the magnetic resonance waits for a year. It's not the first examination to begin the patient's examination. There are five scans in Denmark that we have in Kamenica and there is 400 kilometers one. So much richer countries, much stronger economies can't afford to have every small local community one office, state. I repeat 98% of people in Serbia, perhaps 97% of white coats are honest and honorable people, and 3% of ours as well as everywhere. Three percent of footballers sell games. Three percent of the miners are doing the right thing. Three percent of mines, good with miners when they're wrong there's a big problem. I call upon the citizens, as my colleague Milosavljevic urges, when you hear, please contact the director of your institution. He is obliged to inform the ministry, the minister is required to replace the director of the institution, someone has to answer, just like that. The principle of responsibility we bring the system to that, and that's as you've heard, there's no data hidden here by the ministry and you know it and I know it. Maybe the others didn't know him, someone was doing it, and that someone's gonna answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16663	The word has Dr. Alexander Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16664	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I must point to another really strange cause of the appointment. That's the situation where you have a doctor, you have an O.R., you have everything you need, but the healthcare fund doesn't recognize that number of interventions that day. Such an institution is restricted by four, five, seven operations that day or some other interventions and the next one has to be postponed for the next day. So you have a situation that from some territorial institution of Belgrade, Kragujevac, but from Belgrade I know that patient returns to Lebanon or somewhere far away to wait for another term when an operation that the fund will recognize can be carried out. I would like to rely on what my colleague Radovanovic said, because of the faulty power of the apparatus. I agree that appliances have a certain permissive power, but at least in a large part of the health care facility they can do the second and third shifts, and they only work the first shift, and then they purposely make a list of waitings that make what my colleagues used to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16665	Replica, Dr. Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16666	Just for the work of the public to say. What the esteemed colleague said, so I don't know how the other institutions work, since there are four institutions of this type in Serbia, there are two and three shifts at the Clinical Centre in Nis, so it's done all the time. I'm saying this for the public's sake so there's no confusion. So somewhere, it's not at my place, it's somewhere, to be more specific. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16667	She has the word Ljubica Mrdakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16668	Thank you, Chairman. I fully agree with the presentations of my colleagues, but I would like to say that health care homes or primary health care levels are actually the front door to the health system, and it is true that primary level doctors should solve between 70% and 80% of citizens' health problems. However, in life it always takes two. I responsibly claim, from my experience and practice, that there are also those patients who do not want any kind of health care service in the home of health but are looking for directions to the clinical center. I'm under the impression that sometimes the doctors at the clinical center deal with the primary level of health care and know what they're educated for and what work they're supposed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16669	Thank you. There's a word from MP Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16670	As for the amendment submitted by the DS, it is well-intentioned but, given the objective circumstances in our health system, it is impossible to implement it. What can be done is to remove all those defects, above all the malfunctions on many important appliances. Let's say, in Kragujevac, until the other day, the air therapy department for the oncology of the Kragujevac Clinical Center has been working in difficult conditions over the past few months because of two radiation devices, one is malfunctioning. At the Oncology Centre, which radiates a quarter of the total number of cancer patients in Serbia for optimal work, it takes at least three radiation appliances and until the other day, he worked only one and at 18 hours a day. Again, there are problems with material resources and relations with the Republic Health Insurance Office. It's the key we talked about, and in the principle debate and today in the morning and now, that we simply have to systematically set things up and that it's unacceptable that if repairing a machine, it's often a few million dinars, those funds simply have to be available, or as a spare fund or to be planned in some way, but it's simply an unbearable situation that there are no funds. You can't tell patients with such severe illnesses – I'm sorry, you have to wait a few months, and in a few months you can have a fatal outcome because you're not provided with the means to repair the apparatus. If we don't have at least options and there are limited possibilities for the purchase of new, modern appliances, not only for the diagnosis but also for the treatment, then at least we can plan the means to maintain the existing ones. I can give you a series of information that the public certainly knows, from Kladov, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Nis, etc. how much essential diagnostics and treatment apparatus doesn't work because they're not planned. On the other hand, we have a situation that is inadmissible, that we are covering a debt of 130m euros unintendedly spent or that new debts of three and a half billion dinars and nobody else are being created.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16671	Mr. Mijatovic, you asked for a replica of the exhibit, but you didn't mention it. (Predrag Mijatovic: Yes, I was mentioned. I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16672	Thank you. I may in some way have started this discussion of the waiting list. I think my colleague, after he mentioned me, didn't get me very well. I didn't say waiting lists might not exist where certain appliances and certain techniques are required. I was talking about those branches that don't require it. Let's not defend something that's indefensible now. We know very well what waiting lists are for and how they are used. Let's not hide behind this now that this is impossible and this is possible. Because until recently, there were no waiting lists and we were just like this, if not worse, equipped than we are now. Therefore, waiting lists have been introduced for other reasons. Somewhere to be done, Madam Minister, work reorganization. A second and third shifts can be introduced, regular, not paid, so that the permeable power increases. And I suggest to you as a ministry, given that there is a lot of discussion about corruption on the waiting list, that you form a working group within the Ministry that would review the waiting list of healthcare institutions in Serbia. In this way, we would finally get a picture of what waiting lists are justified and what waiting lists are made just to introduce legal corruption on a small door. I can't agree that if you have 18 or 19 interns per 100,000 residents in any medical institution or hospital, and you wait four months for an internal examination, you'll allow that waiting list in no way to be justified. So it would still be good if the Ministry of Health were to carry out a certain control and audit of these waiting lists and see how justified they are and how not to defend what is indefensible. Because we all know it's a source of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16673	National MP Zoran Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16674	Dear Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, that's where we agree. There are things he can definitely do. Because to open an internal medicine office, he needs one bed, a white coat, a nurse, a counter, and he can do that. You're right about that. So it can, as it should be for other branches, but in every discussion, we have to separate what's definitely dependent on the system, what's a human factor. You know in gynecology, I had a problem, not me, but everyone, that the execution in Nis was 8.7% of the medical examinations for six months. One section went to the home of health care in primary medicine, the other went through private medicine. It can be arranged, but it takes help and the state to arrest someone and it needs the help of correct colleagues and patients to determine where the mistake is. So I'm saying, we agree on the part where corruption is one thing, but the apparatus is the apparatus. A little while ago, he told a colleague that repairing an air-therapy machine was eight or nine million dinars. That's three ultrasounds. I'm sorry, two jobs, one in Nis doesn't work, eight million is a fix and it's been standing for a year. That's why there's a third and fourth shift, they work 12 hours a night, it can't go any faster. And you're right, too, colleague Mijatovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16675	The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Gordic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 30th amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banovic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic together submitted to the 36th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 36 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Health and Family Committee. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP, Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic, submitted to Article 38 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Dr Dusan Milisavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16676	The Honorable President, a respected minister, co-worker and fellow MPs, will be relatively brief. My wish was to point this amendment to the possibility of improving this law and having another congregation body that would be independent, neutral. It would have its own budget and would be completely independent of the work of local self-government. I think the law has more than good members and I can say that more than 80% of the bill's proposal is fine. The law that treats our human rights, the rights of patients, is now in one place and I think it is good, but I doubt it has already begun its functionality and its applicability, as have many so far passed laws, so we have failed to implement them. My first complaint was - patient rights advisor. That's what I said on the Health and Family Committee. There's nothing to advise me. My parents advise me. My grandparents advised me, and if I'm sick, I need protection. So, the citizens of Serbia don't need someone to advise them. It takes someone to protect them, to protect them. I'll advise you, there's nothing to advise me, give me protection of my rights. My rights are compromised, the rights of my child who suffered a bad medical error on his body, or was treated badly, or had some scar, a burn from surgery, and now someone needs to advise me that it's not good. Well, I know it's not good, I want to be protected and I want to exercise my rights. That concept of protector didn't come to life here. I also got an explanation for why. And on the Committee itself, I got that explanation. Personally, I think it was much better if the counselor wasn't, than something stronger. To make it more clear to the citizens, that it's some person who really protects their rights. What I doubt is that local self-governments, not certainly Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, or Subotica and Vranja, but some local self-governments of the smaller type of Presevo, Bujanovac, Black Trava, Shops, not to mention these environments now, will have the capacity to find such a lawyer who can stand up to his president of the municipality, to say – listen, my Milorad is really injured in that health home and I demand that his rights be protected. Then that president of the municipality will tell him -- well, if you're normal, our budget is small, let it go, cover up the case. I think it's going to happen as well as the rights protectors of patients who worked in health homes, in clinical centres, where no case has been pushed to the end in favour of that citizen whose rights have been damaged. I think it is much better to have another neutral, independent body that the Serbian Parliament would vote on, where it would have its own budget, where it would not depend on a local powerful man and so that he could really protect patients' rights in part. That's one of my regrets I've tried to make with this amendment. I don't want much, given that several of the following amendments are similar, to this subject. I got the information, now it's official, that my amendments weren't accepted. After Wednesday, when this law is passed, I will definitely submit an amendment to the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights and it will likely stand in some drawer, as did the bill I did on behalf of the DS parliamentary group since 18 September last year, but okay. I think time will show the functionality of this proposal and your proposal. Of course your proposal is much better than it is existing, that at clinical centres you have a lawyer who protects these patient rights. I think this is a little bit better, but it's not going to be functional and we're going to face one inadmissible law again and we're going to have a problem, as we now have a problem with some other laws that we can't implement. I don't want to talk about this anymore. I would just once again confirm what the President of the Assembly said, it's the same about the right of patients. This is practically, in my opinion, not politics, this is a struggle for life. For Wednesday, I have scheduled a session of the Health and Family Committee, where, in agreement with the president of the Assembly, we will vote on the initiative of the Health and Family Committee towards the Serbian Parliament, according to the president of the Serbian Parliament, to form a working group aimed at resolving the problem of treating children abroad and that we no longer experience situations in the future to see the parents of children begging and begging for the lives of their children. In many cases, they had to lead their sick children, show them to other citizens that they were sick. These are images that have upset, I suppose, all of you, images that have upset Serbian citizens. What's very important is that a small number of parents have the capacity and the power to reach the media. The question is how many more little Tians have lost their lives, how many of those parents couldn't come from these small communities to some major centers to point to these problems, so here we really have to be unique. This is stronger than any policy. This really needs to be a single policy of this Parliament and to solve this problem in the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16677	The word is Mrs Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16678	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is already one fundamental difference in the way that we, the promoters, think this law should look and how the president of the Health and Family Committee thinks about it. We think that health care must be available and effective. I think 70% to 80% of citizens should be informed of all their rights where they live. The units of local self-government are also the founders of primary health care, health care homes and, in accordance with all these facts, we believe that a lawyer who has at least three years of experience, who will pass the education in the domain of legislation relating to legal medicine, should actually be a mediator. It's not just an idea to protect rights and detect irregularities, along with a patient who comes to him, but an idea is to teach a patient, a citizen what his rights are at all levels, and in a health care home, and in a hospital, if necessary at a terrier level. As a result, we believe that the Ombudsman, who has so far been in a working relationship with a health institution, paid by the director, or a health institution, was in a certain conflict of interest. If he is to protect patients' rights and is paid by the RFO, therefore, health care, he is unable to be extremely objective and to protect the patient in the best way possible. For this reason, firstly, we think that moving into a unit of local self - government, therefore, to a congregation of the city, or congregation of the municipality, is extremely important. I think that, of course, according to their education, the most competent lawyers who have at least three years of working experience and who will pass that education and we think that they actually need a protector, and the Protector has suggested that he is not called a protector, but that he is a consultant of the right of patients, that he is the most mediator, less someone who will eventually start sanctions proceedings. Why? Because various inspections, both sanitary and health care, continue to work, because there is also health advice at the level of the largest number of units of local self-government, and it is the right for everyone to form it and because this way we achieve that, on the one hand, someone who is neutral, and educated, well knows the health system, can in the most qualitative, in the most valuable way be truly the protector of the right patients.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16679	Thank you. National MP Dr Dusan Milisavljevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16680	Your Honorary Minister, you didn't convince me. You've repeated what I didn't think was right in this law. You said it wasn't logical for a lawyer who works at a clinical center whose founder, so where he receives his salary, to protect his patient's rights, and that's why you put that patient's rights protector at the level of the local community. So, who's the founder of the home health care in local self-government? Local self-government. From that budget, she's practically getting paid. There's this basis for my problem, that I think this law will not be functional just because it's not neutral. It depends on the budget of local self-government. So, this patient's counsellor at the bar depends on the salary he receives from the mayor or the president of the municipality in that place. It's just like getting paid by the director of the clinical center. I think your intention was good. This is your last option. You have no one else to complain to. He ends up here. My proposal predicted that you have both in the Republic and in the locale that if he is not satisfied with the patient's right counsellor at the locale, he may second-degreely appeal to the republican advisor, i.e. Protector of the patient's rights. I agree that the essential nature of these are some of mine and your objections. Of course you have a majority and you will vote your bill. I'm leaving time to say what's functional. Personally, I doubt it will be the way you say functionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16681	The word is by MP Predrag Mijatovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16682	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, I absolutely mean what you said, it's totally fine. The amendment Mr. Mijatovic made is good that you did not accept it. This patient's rights adviser is a good initiative and it's good that it exists and will play its part in any case, in the way it's drawn up in this law. It is said that, as I told you on the Committee, I believe that you also form a health advice for local self-government, which includes the association of citizens from the order of patients, health institutions, the territory of the local self-government unit, the competent branches of the Republic Health and Health Insurance Fund. I think it's a duplication function and that the council is unnecessary, I think it burdens the budget of local self-government, and as a double function it has with a counselor and intertwines, so their functions are intertwined, I think it was unnecessary to form. You will probably give an explanation of why it is necessary, but I personally think it is not, and I have found the conversators in that opinion, or the like-minded, but it is likely to be so. I'd like to ask you, Mr. President, for two sentences about that, a little bit just to get out of this context, the one on Wednesday that will be organised with the Health Committee, to help small patients, who should be treated outside of Serbia. I just want Serbia to know about one piece of information that we got from the director of the Medical Chamber, that there are currently 5m euros in untapped funds collected from the doctor's membership. That money will be and can be spent on the luxury of the Medical Chamber, and can in this case be used to treat these patients, who have to be treated outside. I don't think any of the doctors would mind using that money we pay every month for one treatment. The fivem-euro large funds, unused funds, were provided by the director of Serbia's Lek Chamber of Medicine on the Health Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16683	Let me just say one thing about this committee, that since we may have been a little imprecise, it's not just about children. The Committee will, or the working body to be discussed, work on the Committee to help all people in this country who need treatment abroad. So we're trying to find a model, not just for children, that's our most painful point, but for everyone else, and that's why it's proposed by the Health Committee. (Predrag Mijatovic: Let's use these funds that are in the account. That's right. As for this, I don't have any information on this, here's the minister, so let's see what can be done. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16684	We have already discussed the issues of the Health Council on the Committee. The Law on Local Self-Government, the Honorable People's MPs, which we passed in this House about two years ago, amends and complements definitively, foresees and installs, to give advice on health care in local self-government units. The structure was determined then. So, no new body is proposed by this law. We think that we would simply cheape the effects that we want to achieve by this law, that it is good not to form new bodies that will now require new funding, new election procedures, new stalking, but that this health advice at the level of the unit of local self-government can also be resolved by advisers and patients who are unhappy and simply there can be one instance in this whole procedure that we are talking about. Why is the structure different, and why is the possibility given to the local self-government unit, that somewhere, for example, there is a representative of the patient association, somewhere not? In endemic areas where there are certain diseases, for example endemic nephropathy, it is quite logical that the local self-government unit will be represented by patients, as the diseases are more frequent and will be able to make a significant contribution to the quality of work in that council. So we had no idea we needed to change that, but I'm saying it's a law this Parliament passed two years ago. A permanent conference of cities supported our thinking and this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16685	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16686	I would like to support my colleague Dusan Milisavljevic's amendment. I'll state the reasons why. Patients' rights are threatened not only by the treatment of medical staff working in medical institutions, but also by inadequate equipment, inadequate salaries of healthcare professionals, this lack of medication, paying even older patients and children. We have a good example through the institution of the Protectors of Citizens who is an entirely independent body and cannot be politically affected. What's the question? Will this patient protection counselor be independent? He won't. We still live in a party state and have witnessed the changes of local government throughout Serbia over the past months. Independently of the election results, local authorities changed as the government was formed. Now the question is that when you hire a citizen counselor, regardless of his professional qualities, he is also dependent on local self-government, more specifically than the president of the municipality. What kind of control over that counselor does the Ministry have? That's the question I'm asking. What will his co-operation with other advisors in local self-government, like the county? You have examples of good practice from some countries where there are patient protectors, regional and environmental. I think there might be a good solution in this law somewhere. How much will local self-government cost? We have 150 municipalities and 24 cities. Will patients be adequately protected? To whom will these associates appointed by local self-government be accountable and will they change? We have a problem in Serbia. We're not Switzerland, we're not Germany. Will they change after every local election? We are in serious trouble and what will their impact be on doctors, for example in one health home where half of the doctors from one party, half of the other, are there going to be politics involved? What's the question for you is what effect will the Ministry have on their work? If they only respond to local self-government, there are many examples in Serbia, especially in small areas, as my colleague used to say, where there is serious interference of government work in the municipality and even in health homes. Another right of patients who are at risk in my municipality is the right to adequate health care. Patients from my municipality, the municipalities of Kučevo confirm instructions for treatment in health institutions outside Kučev, Petrovac, Mlava. I remind you there is no bus line from Kučev to Petrovec on Mlava and when that issue will be resolved. It's very important and it's one of the threats to patients' rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16687	The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16688	I think the counselor should be in local self-government, because that's the only way he'll be available to all citizens. How will citizens from a remote place far from Belgrade reach some trustee who is in Belgrade? There are also doubts about the professionalization of these people. You know what, local self-government needs to be and have to be a citizen service, and that's why these people have to work as professionals, and of course it's necessary to work on further professionalization of local self-government. It is very important that every man can reach his counselor in as short a time as possible. What the minister said, they will play the role of mediator. On the other hand, citizens will be able to address him for some advice, that they already know in advance to inform themselves of their rights, which will prevent them from wandering from doctors to doctors and not knowing how they can exercise their rights. I think it's very good that every local self-government has its own advisor, and I don't think it has to require new costs, because existing employees can be found by someone who can do the job. Household business and budget relations, and local self-government, many health problems can be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16689	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16690	Since my proposal for this amendment is, I'd just like to supplement you, you don't understand. So my proposal is to have a patient-right counsellor or protector at the bar, but also to be on the republican level. So we have two degree control over the protection of patients' rights. I believe that many citizens have no sympathy for the administration of many local self-government. I'm not satisfied with the work of many counter-workers in my Nis. You have very unkind people who won't look at you, who, when you get to the counter, close your counter. I ask you, will such a lawyer, who is frustrated because he is such, really take care of these patients? So I didn't want to invent hot water. I just wanted something that would be a good vote in the Assembly, if we had another independent assembly body, which would have its own budget, which we would vote in the Serbian Parliament and from that budget would be financed by those advisors or protectors or whatever. Like this, they're funded from the local budget. So their founder is local self-government. Hospitals are founded by local self-government. That lawyer's a local self-government employer. I wanted to avoid being financed by the local self-government and paying for it, because whoever pays you will pull you by the ear and say, "Are you normal?" I'm sure that's how we work. I wish we were Swiss society, that we had an administration that is perfect and that is looking really to protect the interests of the citizens. Here you have, unfortunately, the administration that is overcrowded, which is unsatisfactory and that when some grandmother comes to whom a doctor has spoken a harsh word or maybe he hasn't given her some medicine that she wanted, he'll smile on her counter. I have no confidence in many local self-government, in the quality of administration in many local self-government, under number one. I don't think they have the capacity. I think a lot of what we need to do in reforming the local administration, let alone that such a local administration chooses someone who will really protect an independent patient's right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16691	Mrs. Novkovic, on what grounds? (Ana Novkovic, from town: Replica. He didn't mention you. (Ana Novković, from the post: On my exhibition. He gave his opinion. You have no right to a replica. The word has been given by MP Branislav Blazic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16692	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about a patient's right counsellor, here may be a little wrong to ask the question that this advisor will be directly responsible to the president of the municipality or some municipal political structure. It doesn't have to be that way at all. In a way, that counselor is completely individual. It is his duty to care for the citizens, to care for the rights and protect those rights of patients in that territory. Whether he will do it or not, and what quality he will do it, it depends on individual to individual. Someone will do their job outstandingly, even if they care about their rights and advise them on how to exercise those rights. Perhaps he will engage and help them in some process of how to end these rights and achieve them. Somewhere in the middle, there's gonna be someone completely uninterested and that's probably not gonna work. Now we can't make the law from the community to the community and watch where some community may more or less politicize that thing, and let that leave to a man that according to his own responsibility and knowledge he does it himself. In any case, this should be supported because it is one step forward in terms of a more complex, more serious approach in support and the achievement of patients' rights. When it comes to advice as such, he reminds me, I also spoke to the board, at the time when they were SIZs and when they were larger service providers and larger service recipients. When there were service providers in one municipality. It was a home of health, hospital, etc., doctors, and on the other hand recipients of services. It was an economy and they were citizens. In a congregation that was held from time to time, the situation in the municipality was analysed, when it comes to health care, level, quality, opportunities, money of economy, how much to allocate, what to spend, what to plan, etc. That was pretty much at the time, let's say, even good. Today's another time. Today, that second time is looking for this kind of organization. In any case, this will be something new and something good if in practice it comes to life and if these people are responsible for their work and in some conversation, meetings between health workers and citizens, advisers and others come up with the best solutions for this environment and those citizens of good. The only thing we're missing in this whole story, and that's the law on the protection of doctors. In parallel with patient protection and patient rights, we have to go to the law on pharmacy, to the law on the protection of doctors, and then to establish this balance and have a real partner relationship between patients and doctors.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16693	Thank you. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16694	Thank you. We've been talking about this stuff for a long time, and I gotta say, that's good. It's good to have an ex-protector, and now the patient's right counsellor out of the health care facility. The fact is, according to the law, it's not a large number of applications. Our citizens, in principle and as a rule, don't complain a lot about doctors and don't complain as much as we all have real grudges about their work. Real applications aren't that much. That's why I don't think my colleague Milisavljevic's proposal is sustainable for that reason. There's not much of it. If we remove an advisor from a health care facility, which we do with this law, we're actually going to increase the number, and that's a good thing, it's probably going to happen. But you have one real problem and that's what I wrote about. That's why this amendment of mine looks like this. I wanted to include the Republic Fund in this whole advice or protection story of patients' rights, for the simple reason that the Republic Fund pays all of this, in about 90% of the salaries and primary and secondary and tertiary health care. When you have a councilman sitting in the community, that's a good thing, real. At the first ball, I was satisfied with this solution, and then I thought about the way people who work in local self-government think. They'll first see this as a new imposition and that's a fact and no one's going to deny it. Then the next question will be asked – who will pay for it? You said you'd pay for the training of those faces that would do it, that you'd learn how to be good advisors, and that's why it'd take about six months, but I'm sure it'd be a lot more than that time until such a provision comes to life. That's why I wrote a amendment like this. I live in the belief that in some way you have adopted this amendment of mine, because you have created the preconditions that the Republic Fund is actually starting to do these jobs. In a way, he's doing it through an amendment to this regulation and it's a good thing. Secondly, you've adopted that counsellor should be three years old, not five years of work experience, and that's also good, because you'll find it hard to find in local self-government people who have five and over years of work experience in these jobs. There's another fact, and that's going to be very difficult when that system starts to work, and that's because people say -- we don't pay it, how can we control it? Let's just say that primary health care can be somehow covered by this man who works or sits in local self-government and who is really trying to do his job in a safe and responsible manner. But what about hospitals? It won't work. It's going to be very difficult, first of all, because the hospital's directors, the directors, are being appointed by the ministry. They don't see local self-government as someone who needs to be accounted for. That's very hard. Two and a half years ago, we did what's now called a health advice. We built it in Capco two-and-a-half years ago and it was called a task force. It was then for all those who had been prescribed by law to work in the council. For the first time, people started talking. It is the essence of a reform of the administration, that people who run or work in different institutions start talking, solve citizens' problems, so to start talking about citizens' interests. There's some good projects coming out of that task force at the bar, and that's great. But what I'm saying is, it's been very hard to get institutions that don't finance local self-government, even at a small percentage, to do something and to bear some kind of responsibility. That's why I really support this fact that there's going to be a health advice. That's a great thing. It works with us, and I believe it will work everywhere. I think that until he starts doing this, or in his full capacity, he should think about how the Republic Fund can really start providing services right away. Believe me, if we pass this law on Wednesday and the MP group of the ZZ, who really advocates some kind of true self-government, you can start doing it in the Republic Fund on Thursday. So, one lawyer to the Republic Fund, who's certainly been working for three or more years, even for a certain time, can start giving advice to patients. It's mostly the same time as the insurance companies of the Republic Fund, and that once the Republic Fund becomes the home of its insurance companies, because I don't see the reason why it doesn't be, to open its doors, and then to see people being treated, which are their problems, how difficult it is when you have to give, as well as when a mother has to give 500 dinars to be with her child in the pediatric ward, even though the baby is only a year old, because there some imaginary manager or director has made a decision that it's very good to earn what she's going to do to the mother's companion, even though the Republican Fund has given the right child up to 15 years of age to have a date. He says - we've made a decision, we'll charge for it, we don't care. It took time for such a provision to be abolished and to punish those people who do so. In practice you will see that 75%, I measured it and we did it in Šapec, that 75% of all these remarks actually refer to the refunds that the citizens paid for, because in state institutions they paid for something they shouldn't have – whether they were shots, additional services, reviews, recording, whatever, diagnostics. It's mostly the things they complain about. For everything else, we also have the Protector of the rights of citizens, Mr. Sasu Jankovic, so that is the institution that exists. I think what I suggested, I think the conditions have now been created. We'll see how things work now, because this is generally a good thing. I think the ZZS parliamentary group, and I'm going to talk about other amendments, will really support it, because we've managed to fix things and we've managed to move forward, which is a good thing for both the ministry and the patients, or the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16695	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16696	I'd like to thank you for your extraordinary construction and for thinking about where we meet somewhere. We think that indeed the Republic Health Insurance Fund is not only a financial institution, but must also protect the rights of its insurance companies. What's the problem? This is the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights, so not just an insurance company. It's a wider term. I agree that there is a huge number of citizens who use health services in Serbia, that they are actually insurance companies of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. The Republic Health Insurance Fund already has a control function. They intend to install, build an institution of supervisors who would just do all this stuff that you're talking about. They have the capacity right now and they can go now. I think they're planning and they're going to start working very soon. I would like to say that it doesn't bother, on the one hand, that the rights of the insurance company protects the Republic Health Insurance Fund through the supervisors and that we have these mediators, advisors in the local self-government unit, who simply teach patients their rights to everyone, not just the insurance company. On the other hand, we have accepted amendments from the SNS to Article 38, that, in fact, through two new attitudes we regulate that insurance houses, not only must it be the Republic Health Insurance Fund, we think we should go to new insurance modes, can create special acts related to the regulation of the relationship between their own insurance companies and them. In this way we think alike, and it seems to me that through these different instruments, we will really improve patient information, knowledge and help all of us to have a higher level of health culture, but also our rights, which we all have rights to.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16697	The word is Nebojsa Zelenović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16698	Thank you. I'm just gonna get over it. So insurance supervisors and now exist in the Republic Fund and they mostly control the work of health institutions. But no one's ever stopped them from doing the jobs we're talking about. I don't see any problem with him starting to do it right now and, say, getting out and recording the crowds. Let's say, what we heard today, 150 meters of order at some clinic there. Why don't the insurance supervisors see what it's about, react to a competent branch, or institution, and then see if there's any rights. Any violation of rights can be financially expressed. Any one of these injuries can be fined financially. Therefore, there are rules regarding the contract between the Fund and the health institution. So you have an effective way of getting things in order very quickly. That's why my proposal was like this. I don't think the Fund should constantly punish a health care facility, not vice versa. So we're not thinking about it. It's important to me that there's a way that he can react quickly and remove the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16699	The word has Dusan Milisavljevic, according to the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16700	I'm reporting for my colleague Zelenovic's amendment. I disagree with his proposal and allowing the Republic Fund to aggregate even more power into itself. I think it's better to have in the next period – it's one thing to protect patients' rights, and protecting the rights of insurance can be something else. The power of the Republic Fund is very high, and I have not seen its power in action to protect the rights of its insurance companies. I've seen more of the power of this Fund to collect that money and to be even stronger in that financial power. I have to tell you that the Republic Fund, in some years, not now, but a lot of things that were just breaking the rights of patients, came from the Fund. In the term of Mrs Slavica and us in parliament, we have entered into solving a problem that is unimaginable to me and that just happened in the Fund. It is that the expert commission of the Republic Fund prescribes a cure for children suffering from chronic mileocyte leukemia, and there are some 30 children in Serbia. These kids have been taking a cure for nine years and getting a tender commission to change their medication because that drug must be a little cheaper, I don't know, and throw in another cure. There's no such thing in the world. You don't even have that in Tungusia, that someone is tendering to change something that your doctors told you, what the cure was doing. Mrs. Secretary was also surprised when she got that information. Guys, someone dared to let kids who had leukemia change their medication just for the financial benefit of that house. It's fortunate that no child has lost their lives. It's fortunate that no child has lost their lives. Someone in that organization, managers and big ones, saw some drug cheaper, let's get this medicine in for kids who have been taking medicine for nine years, who are alive because of this drug, and throw in another drug. It is fortunate that the minister is more than a normal person and that we reacted very quickly. I think we've solved that problem, too. To give the Fund even more power to decide our fates, I'm not up to it. For me, we have two or three other funds to fight for our insurance company, who would fight to provide quality health care services and certain health institutions, to provide it and to provide it with a good professor, a good primarius, to introduce a number of types of insurance, to introduce a clear health care package and what citizens of Serbia have of their own insurance. These are some things we need to know. That's what I stand for. I certainly don't advocate giving someone the uncut power to get all the health care money and to let him determine what we're going to be treated with, how we're going to be treated. Now I really don't see the strength of the Ministry of Health towards the Republic Fund. The Republic Fund is raining. These poor people here are kind of talking, they're passing some laws, and basically real power where the money is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16701	The word is Nebojsa Zelenović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16702	Thank you. I don't think my colleague understood me very well. You have to open the door and be obliged or at your service to your insurance companies, or with those who pay you, that's not power, that's an obligation. Obligation and responsibility. When you solve their problems, it's also responsibility, not power. The idea was to open the Republic Fund as a slow bureaucratic apparatus. Why did I suggest that? Because I represent the policy of the ZZS parliamentary group, which advocates true self-government. If we open the fund door and open the branch door, open the door with money financed by healthcare in 90% of cases, or 90% in Serbia, what are we doing? This brings this money closer to the rights and responsibilities of the citizens. That's what I wanted. I wanted the policy, decision-making and citizens' problems to be brought closer to those who decide, and at the same time let the authorities down to the citizens, to be closer to them. That's what I wanted to do. I think that's what I've done. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16703	Members of the 38th Amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs Branislav Blažić, Ninoslav Girić, Aleksandar Radojevic, Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic, Vesna Rakonjac, Mileta Poscurica, Milan Knezevic and Predrag Mijatovic. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by the National MP Prof. Dr. Dusan Milisavljevic. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 39 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 39th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 39th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16704	We've suggested a different variant, as far as attitude four is concerned. The legislator says that the decision to organise and finance and the conditions of work of patient advisors is made by the competent body of the local self-government unit, and we propose that the decision to organise, finance, with the emphasis on the word "financing", and the conditions of work of patient advisers be made by the Ministry of Health. I have to admit that at least we, at least I, were in charge of this word "finance" because local self-government is impoverished, having trouble funding some other organs. I've been very pragmatic, yet I'm from the Pyrot County, and I think the Health Ministry should do it. How independent this counselor will be with regard to who pays him, it depends primarily on how professional this man is and how much he wants to do the job properly. Whether it is paid by the local self-government or the ministry, if he is professional and committed to the job, he will do it correctly, if he is not, it will be no matter who pays him and whether he should do it properly. I think it's very important that those bodies we're setting up, that there's some kind of financial compensation. When it comes to this advice on health, I don't know what the experience from Sapac is, did you say it was a working group, whether local self-government has allocated some funds to the work of that task force? I know there's always a problem with local self-government in forming these bodies if it doesn't exist. At first, there is little enthusiasm, volunteering, but later people wonder, and some compensation. In particular, we have in mind, and you are Mrs. Minister familiar with the formation of inter-resorship commissions for inclusive education that should have formed every local self-government in Serbia. First of all, you should know that in certain local self-governments, they are not formed, and that they should be shut down because they do not know who pays or is not paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16705	Article 39 of the amendment lays down Article 157(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure, submitted by the Health and Family Committee. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16706	Yes, the government has accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16707	Prof. Dusan Milisavljevic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 40th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16708	This is what we talked about on the Health Committee, but I think it's very important, in the spirit of these amendments that I wrote, what it's really about. I assumed that insight into the medical records, or the patient’s medical records, could not have that lawyer, counsellor, for the reason that he would not know what he was looking at. He doesn't have that knowledge. First you'll teach him six months to learn what health insurance and health care rights are, then it'll take him another six months to get into the whole business. After a year, he needs to look at some medical records and he won't know how to read or see. The insurance supervisors that exist in the Republic Fund can't watch. Security monitors at the Republic Fund who controls patient medical records, when they control prescription drug consumption, must not watch medical records if they are not doctors, not because they are now, but because they do not know. That's all doctors can see and recognize the problem. How is there gonna be a lawyer out there who just got into the business to see it? I think it was the basis of this amendment, that's what it's really about. If that's the situation, and you've somehow predicted the possibility of the Republic Fund entering these affairs, I don't see why a combination wouldn't be made so that this lawyer can be helped by an insurance supervisor of the doctors he has in each branch of the Republic Fund, so they can look at the documentation together and help each other. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16709	There's a Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16710	It is planned that supervisors be doctors, as planned to be lawyers. So we think it's good for some to be doctors and some to be lawyers. On the other hand, the contents of the counselor's work are only content by appeal and there is no reason to gain insight into everything in the chart, and what belongs to the very sensitive data of the patient himself. It's regulated by other members, and I don't think there's any concern that the counselor will enter that information that would even be an unauthorized discovery of the medical secret, which is a crime.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16711	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 42 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirjana Dragas. The government and the Health and Family Committee have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milos Aligrudic submitted to the 44th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta together submitted to the 44th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Health and Family have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the third item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE OBLIGATION OF PERSONS WITH MENTAL INSTRUMENTS. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Nebojsa Zelenović, Mirjana Dragas, Zlata Đerić and Dubravka Filipovski; Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milica Vojić Marković; Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Antić; Judita Popović, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Health and Family, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Health and Family accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16712	Thank you, Your Honor. I would rely on this previous story from the previous law. So, this task force, which was created in Sapac two and a half years ago, is an entirely atypical group, and I would like to answer my colleague Banovic's question. She's totally atypical because there's all the volunteers out there. Volunteers are hospital director and director of the home of health and then director of the branch and director of the Centre for Social Work, Karitas representative of NGOs, which was particularly involved in this section concerning the protection of persons with mental disorders and all others who participated, representatives of schools and other associations of citizens. So that's why she was completely, let me say, atypical of our conditions, because everyone was doing volunteer work and giving some of their results. One of these results is the health strategy of that prevention, the promotion of public health in the territory of the town of Šapca, a strategy that came out as a work with several projects, such as the work of the group. What was so important to me? When I wrote amendments to this law, and there were eight, I had enough help from Karitas and their associates and, of course, psychiatrists from the General Hospital in Capco. So the idea was to try in the best way for people who have problems, or who have mental disorders, to be able to spend as little time as possible in closed conditions. The first amendment that you adopted, and you adopted three, I'm grateful for that, the first amendment needs to be fixed technically, text, and actually rehabilitation is the essence of all of it. So no treatment without rehabilitation. I thought that in the opening part of the text, if there's no rehabilitation like what we really need to focus on when it comes to treating a person with mental disorders, then we missed out on the subject. Rehabilitation later involves a series of services that I will later discuss in other amendments, a series of services that should improve to enable regular communication with persons, to allow them to regularly take their therapy and try to lead this social inclusion in the best possible way, without excessive and unnecessary and as little retention as possible in mostly secondary type institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16713	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MP Mirjana Dragas submitted to Article 12 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has a minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16714	Item 3 is missing for technical reasons, otherwise the complete amendment has been accepted, so I only ask that it be kept in mind when definitively stating and adopting the text.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16715	Thank you. The word is Mrs Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16716	I am very pleased that you have accepted this amendment to Article 12, where it is mentioned about the treatment of persons with mental disorders in the community, because in the future, I believe that the protection of mental health in the community should be dominant in relation to hospital conditions and this would essentially be in line with the 2005 Helsinki Declaration, in which the health ministers of the signatories of the countries have committed themselves to, in point 10 of Section 11, to support, quote – the development of mental health services in the community that would replace care in large institutions for people with serious mental health problems. I would like to say that in Nis we have positive experience with this concept of treatment and that in Nis for two years the first Center for the Protection of Mental Health in the Community in the Median Municipality, and something like that, with protected apartments, or hostels, we also have experience at the Special Psychological Hospital of Gornja Topanica near Nis. The way this treatment works would mean that all services would be territorially organized according to the same principles, so that multidisciplinary teams, keys managements, formed from the ranks of the existing staff of psychiatric services, would organise an ambulatory service, home visit services, treatment in the apartment or protected housing, daily centres with various psychosociotherapy programs, a psychotherapy service, and I believe that the basis of such a therapeutic approach in the future would be based on individual programmes that would respect both patients' health and their social status, wishes and opportunities, and thus would be easier to provide therapeutic continuity through the treatment of patients by the same team and during hospitalisation and post-treatment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16718	As part of deinstitutionalization, the network of mental health centres institutions is actually inevitable. We have, by many acts and in the end, made several important steps in real circumstances in which mental health concerns work. However, by means of a sublegal act, we will, over the next six months, work out this issue in more detail, and I think it will indeed be for the benefit of raising health culture and the level of health function of citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16719	National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 13th amendment. The Government and the Resolution Committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16720	Thank you, Your Honor. I didn't talk to the board about this because at some point the debate went the other way, so we didn't talk about these things enough, but it's very important to me. I'm a professional lawyer, I'm not a psychiatrist, and I'm not someone who deals with this, so all I've been saying so far is actually advice from people who are from the profession, from the territory where I come from. We also had a consult with Dr. Paolo Sere, who is a respected psychiatrist and who has helped greatly to make these amendments that I have actually be, in essence, and I can see from the results, good ones. What we have suggested is an individual treatment plan, that it is an integral part of the documentation and that it is updated once a week and that is very important. I think it's a good idea to introduce such practice into our medical records and the way we do things at all. I will continue to be interested in the debate as to how things stand about this social inclusion, but I think that we are going a good path and that the rest is going to see what other ministries that you have called for when we talked about the debate in principle, what they will do about it, or whether the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy will be involved, with what means and whether they will be involved at all. I wonder if there's some kind of communication that you've already made, whether that call is more of a declarative or there's really interest in the other third party, that we're really interested in living this up and trying to deinstitutionalize it as a rule in Serbia, to see what the services that can be provided at local level, and believe me, we're very interested in including these services and to try to make one step, to show that we can introduce these European values, if we can in each of the local self-government and I don't see an obstacle to it. I'd like to hear that information, if you have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16722	Within the IPA ten projects we have already started and working groups of the Ministry of Labour for Social and Health are currently working on the implementation of all these segments in local self-government units, jointly and each with its own aspects. Those who are in a state of social need and those who have mental disorders must be of particular concern. I think that relatively quickly, since working groups and other ministries are doing this, I can't decidently say when, but I would like it to be the most in the next six months, to come up with joint programmes, and also amendments to certain legislative acts, so that in the units of local self-government, social workers, psychiatrists, defectologists and other representatives of institutions, depending on the environment, we can make our contribution to this work in a quality way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16723	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16724	Here's why I put the amendment on this. It's gonna be hard to do this in practice. How much information did I get, what's actually going to happen here? There will be a problem in contacting a person with a mental disorder with trust. How are you going to get here? It wants a neighbor or friend present, and what are you going to do? You're gonna call this neighbor or a friend and he's gonna come? It's hardly going to happen in life. So I don't know how this is gonna work in practice. I don't think that's real, and I don't think it's real.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16725	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16726	A person with mental problems doesn't always have to be the closest relative, neighbor, relative, but can be someone else. We think that's actually a broader term. We don't think, but it's a broader notion of a person with mental problems who has trust than any of these relatives, acquaintances listed here, so that was the reason we didn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16727	The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to Article 19 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is Sanda Rakovic Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16728	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to explain why I submitted this amendment. Namely, I asked for three more witnesses to be introduced to forced hospitalization. Why did I do that, even though it seems a little complicated and it is complicated? I think it's necessary because forced hospitalization is an action that constitutes a violation of human right to freedom. It is precisely because it is a violation of human right to freedom that ensures that there is no abuse of that. It's not my idea that I came up with in my head with colleague Vojić Markovic, but we found that in Great Britain it exists as a modus operand, and that's why we introduced it. This would be one way in this interregnum until it comes to strengthening the process of deinstitutionalisation, i.e. closing in mental hospitals and relying on mental hospitals to be the main modus operandi, or something on which the treatment of mental patients is now based. I must say that my parliamentary group and I personally strongly support deinstitutionalisation, strengthening the network of mental health centres, strengthening the psychiatry in the community, and we, as a parliamentary group, will support all these amendments that strengthen psychiatry in the community.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16729	The word is made by Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16730	Since forced hospitalizations are indeed more than delicate and they only take place in those circumstances when a patient is life-threatening or can endanger the lives of a person from the environment. So, only in these circumstances of forced hospitalization are, unfortunately, unhinged events at night and when it is almost impossible to find three impartial witnesses who would testify as citizens that this hospitalization is necessary. The decision is entrusted to this law exclusively to a psychiatrist. So, no longer a doctor of general medicine, no doctor of emergency services, the most competent professional person, and this is a psychiatrist who certainly has both ethics and expertise in this matter and the next day, that is, the first day, after any such hospitalisation, a team or consular decision of the individual doctor must be confirmed. The whole procedure is arranged so that within three days, the court has to impose a mandatory treatment measure, as the patient is probably still in a large number of cases unable to accept the hospitalisation voluntarily, otherwise forced hospitalisation is interrupted at the time when the patient's condition is corrected so that he can decide on his own. So, for reasons of efficiency and confidence in psychiatrists, who really have knowledge and skills, an ethics that will not necessarily make a decision on hospitalisation if it is not necessary, and from the fact that the next day consularly this decision now of three psychiatrists must be confirmed, we have opinions that three impartial witnesses slowed the procedure and that it would simply not be applicable, because, as you know from their own experience, it often happens that forced hospitalizations are right at night, in those times when it is not always easy to find witnesses.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16731	The word is Snezana Stojanović Plassic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16732	Thank you. After this explanation, the Minister makes a little less sense what I wanted to say, but in any case, it comes down to the same thing. On behalf of the URS parliamentary group and in my own personal strong support, I also advocate rehabilitation and treatment in the community and, too, for limiting freedom only when it is a real threat to life. I think the law defined it well, in the sense that it allows for forced hospitalisation only when the patient seriously and directly endangers his own life and health or seriously and directly endangers the life and health of someone else. As for witnesses, it is likely that such a practice exists in some other countries, but recently I have had the opportunity to talk to some friends who work at the police, who are doing searches, where they also have to provide three witnesses. They say it's causing them a big problem because they don't know who's obliged to provide these witnesses, whether the one you're searching or the official himself. When they're the ones you need to search, they don't want to provide witnesses, etc. So, applied to this situation here, who would provide witnesses, would it be a patient who is certainly unable to do such a thing at the moment? If it's his family, his employer, or he's the one reporting a situation that's such that he has to bring in a patient, then are they unbiased witnesses again? If it's official for a psychiatrist, police or anyone else to do it, will it be unbiased witnesses? (President: Time. I have the time of the parliamentary group. What's the problem? (President: No, you have spent the time you have as an authorised representative and time of the parliamentary group. All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16733	National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 21st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 22nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 29th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 30th Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Sanda Raskovic Ivić and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16734	Thank you, Mr. President. This is an amendment that treats the length of treatment. We thought that article 30 was deleted and it said, "The court determines the time of detention in a psychiatric hospital, which is as long as that part of the psychiatric sympotology that makes the patient dangerous to himself and the environment." We did this because it is in line with the principles for the protection of persons suffering from mental illness adopted by the UN Security Council resolution back in 1991. There's a length of deprivement of freedom by closing in a psychiatric institution associated with clinical images and symptoms that the patient exhibits. This motivated us to do this amendment precisely because we know that in psychiatric hospitals the length of the stay is very long and that, I was already talking about it, let's say, in Vršačka hospital half of 900 patients have been there for over a year and over a hundred more than ten years. So this is all that the court does and everything that is later listed as a method of correcting in some way is not enough. Because we know from experience that patients lie down for a very long time, and this could practically be the way to shorten their excessively long stay at the hospital.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16735	He's got the word Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16736	In fact, we have spoken about the content of which Mrs. Raskovic had spoken to Article 31, where we say: "The court may, before the time is up, be set for the detention of a person with mental disorders in a psychiatric institution according to official duty or on a proposal from this person, his representative or psychiatric institution to decide on his release from a psychiatric institution if he finds that the health condition of this person has improved to such an extent that he has ceased health reasons for his continued detention without consent or that he is no longer dangerous to his own health and his own life and the lives of the person in the environment. "
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16737	The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korac, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta together submitted to the 37th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić together submitted to the 45th amendment. The government has accepted the amendment. The Health and Family Committee has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to Article 48 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word is Nebojsa Zelenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16738	Your Honor, I don't quite understand what you're thinking. I guess we didn't get along. I asked the 48th member to regulate physical restraint and isolation. Therefore, persons who are physically restrained and isolated are under constant supervision of a healthcare professional and the medical records must include the name of that healthcare professional. That's my amendment. In your explanation, you said that you regulated it in Articles 49, 49, 1 and 2. Article 49(1) and (2) states who makes the decision on the application of physical obstruction and writes that the person making the decision, that his name or the name of the psychiatrist who made the application decision, is to be entered in the medical file. Also, there are reasons, ways, measures, duration, but not one who will really monitor, monitor, watch, control a face that is narrowed down and physically isolated. That's what I'm suggesting and I'm asking you to explain it to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16739	He's got the word Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16740	Yes, Article 50 provides that a psychiatrist is required to monitor the health condition of a person who is physically, or isolated, and the sublegal act has to determine for hours, or minutes, what happens until the medication starts to work and someone has to be physically slowed down in the 21st century. So we're going to have to do this in detail with a sublegal act, and we think that person has to be a psychiatrist who's responsible for all the time and all the procedures. It can't go down below that level. That's what we predicted for Article 50. Maybe we said he was a member of 49 because we moved some members. Look at Article 50, that's where it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16741	Members of the 49th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragana Andric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the country. Does anyone want a word? ( No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the country. Does anyone want a word? ( No) Members of the 54th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the country. Does anyone want a word? ( No) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski submitted to the 55th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the country. Does anyone want a word? ( No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korać, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta submitted to the 61st amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the country. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? ( No) Together, MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski submitted to Article 61 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the country. Does anyone want a word? ( No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Zarko Korac, Radmila Gerov and Miljenko Dereta together submitted to the 62th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with a correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia's country. I find this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16742	Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, the President-in-Office, it has been an honor and pleasure for me today to really in the parliamentary atmosphere, without any political persuasion, to speak of these two laws in a way that legislative activity should actually appear in all segments. Indeed, I thank all MPs, especially those who have improved the text with amendments, those who have taken part in the debate. The disagreement over some issues today is just an expression of the desire to address in the best way the most subtle health issues of our citizens and the rights of all patients and especially those with mental disorders, and the fact that we are different is simply because we think that in different ways we can achieve it. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-20-0.u16743	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of MPs in the O.R., I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287(2), The Rules of Procedure of today's session shall have the right to request information and clarifications. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
