ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24366	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 77 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Dijana Vukomanovic and Dragan Tomic. You have received the resignation of MP Milos Jovanovic as a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that the resignation has led to the case referred to in Article 88(2). The Law on selecting Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88, paragraphs 3 and 4 determine the termination of the mandate of this MP. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88(2) and paragraphs 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that it ceased its mandate before the end of the time elected to MP Milos Jovanovic on the day of resigning. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that in addition to the representatives of the promoters Dr. Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, I have also called on the sittings of Stevan Nikcevic, Stefan Lazarevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications; Mr Ljiljana Stanković, Dusan Protic, Bojana Todorović, Jelena Marjanović and Nebojsa Vasiljevic, Assistant Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications; Milan Dobrijevic, Head of the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications; Jasmina Roskovic, Head of the Department of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications. We continue to work on a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 2 to 8 of the agenda. We're moving on to the speaker list. Next reported is MP Dejan Mihajlov, not here. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24367	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, honourable members of the Government, there are several draft laws in the area of trade and trade. Although they may not bring about major changes that will feel wider social layers, I still believe that they are making significant improvements in the area of trade, so I will briefly look back on these legal proposals. The first one in this group of laws is the one about traffic intervention and the lease of immovableity, it has to do with the bill on legalisation that we have already discussed in principle, because only the existence of construction facilities that are not built in accordance with the regulations and which do not exist in official state cadastral records, naturally creates such an environment in which both traffic and dealing with activities of intervention in the purchase of such buildings must take place in the gray zone, away from the eyes of the public, the state authorities. President, please provide peace in the O.R. Therefore, this law is also an attempt to establish order on the real estate market, to establish order and legal certainty for citizens, and to no longer read earthquake stories about citizens who often stayed on the street cheated by unscrupulous brokers in the real estate trade. The essential news is that only registered legal and natural persons will be able to deal with these transactions, which will be required to have a professional examination, an appropriate business space and a concluded insurance and liability contract for damages. These transactions, as before, will be carried out on the basis of an intermediation contract, but this legislative proposal is detailed, with all relevant elements, rights and obligations. It may be possible to make an observation that there is an unnecessary accumulation of regulations here, since this type of contract is generally regulated by the Law on Liabilities, but when it is such a sensitive matter for our citizens, I do not think it is necessary for this type of contract to be regulated once again in detail, especially to specify the obligations of the recipient, because the practice shows that a large number of agencies simply take the money from clients, and then do nothing to find another interested person for the purchase or hire of real estate, or worse still, to lead their employer knowingly astray. The export and import laws of dual-use goods will precisely regulate the traffic of these types of goods. The list of such goods will be determined by the Government, and individual permits for trade in such goods will be valid for up to a year. The procedure stipulates that consent must be sought from the foreign affairs, internal affairs and trade ministries, as well as from the BIA. These measures, such as issuing end-user certificates, should have the effect of reducing to a minimum the possibility of supplying such goods to anyone who might abuse them. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Trade will provide more precise definitions of certain concepts, and on the other hand a legal basis will be created for better control of electronic trade, thus protecting potential buyers, as well as sellers who adhere to legal procedures. Of course, this kind of effort has been quite justified because electronic commerce has had a huge expansion lately, and in this area it's all already flowed money. This control will be seen as being able for courts to impose restrictive measures, providing services is such an increase in the ceiling of penalties for violations of legal and natural persons. The fourth law in this area is the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Competition, which I consider to be the most significant of the proposed legal solutions. The protection of competition in each modern economy is one of the protagonists of free and uninterrupted market economy. This right is guaranteed by Article 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Economic science, and especially our living daily life, has made it clear that the creation of a monopoly almost always leads to prices of products and services jumping over over time, that it is based on it that monopolies are making increasing profits, and ultimately we are paying all of us ordinary citizens. The expert public estimated that our 2009 Competition Protection Act essentially contains good legal solutions that allow efficient mechanisms for the protection of free business. Based on this law in 2011, the Competition Protection Commission, as a regulatory body, which aims to control the freedom of competition of business and to prevent cartels, began to impose first sentences on unconscious entrepreneurs and traders. In 2012 alone, the Commission conducted 11 procedures to determine the existence of a restrictive cartel agreement, nine procedures for establishing a monopoly position. The proposed changes and additions were made according to European standards in these areas. They will not systematically change anything, which is a recognition that the basic legal text is good, that such improvements will be proposed to enable this body to act effectively. First of all, they highlight some changes and additions related to the procedure itself before the Commission. The first is the extension of limitation deadlines to determine some of the possible measures in the area of competition protection from three to five years. If the financial benefits of cartels and monopolies are known, then this extension of deadlines, in particular the introduction of a procedural institution, the termination of obsolescence and is considered entirely justified, and on the other hand, the Commission itself will be given the opportunity to prepare more thoroughly for the management of these complex and sensitive procedures. The law itself has been complemented by several further extensions of the deadlines for individual procedural actions when filing complaints before the Supreme Cassation Court, which will improve the legal certainty of the party addressing this claim for the protection of its rights. On the one hand, it can be objected to why the proposed amendments and amendments to the law abolish the right to a special appeal, to some segments in the process of conducting the procedure, carrying out evidence, temporary measures, but on the other hand there is a desire to speed up the process itself. It should be borne in mind that the procedure itself is administrative, not judicial. More precisely, the possibility of termination will be regulated, where the party will now be asked to submit a proposal on what specific obligations it intends to make, and the Commission concludes after the analysis has been carried out that the proceedings are interrupted. This conclusion will take place in the future by the Council of the Commission instead of the president, so it reduces the possibility that such an important decision depends on only one man. Another important precision is about changing the definition of what is considered to be a dominant position on the market, which is given in Article 15. Much more precise criteria will be set for determining whether or not someone in the market has a dominant position, so it will reduce the possibility that possible processes of water against someone who later turns out to be unsatisfactory, so savings will be achieved in time and money. Dear People's MPs, we are aware that our economy and our market always suffer greatly from monopolistic tendencies and ocular agreements of market participants. However, if we strive to settle into regulated and developed countries, we will certainly have to regulate the rules of the marketing game in business. That is why the PUPS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support these legislative proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24368	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24369	President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Mr Ljajic, we of the DSS parliamentary group were prepared to talk about proposals for laws that are on the agenda and we felt that they were important and significant, especially the law governing the area of real estate transport and where legal certainty is introduced for citizens, buyers and sellers in that area. We think it's equally important. We would take advantage of Mr Ljajic's presence, which is very much in charge of this, which is to ask the question, since we have learned from the European Commission today, and not from our government, that Serbia has agreed to allow the further regime of the tobacco industry in Rovinj, I think it is the manufacturer of cigarettes from Croatia. The regime that existed under the CEFTA agreement. The CEFTA agreement for Croatia stopped applying the moment they joined the EU. It's so defined. The CEFTA agreement regulates relations, I say, regional relations, and creates one regional market and facilitates trade in the region and certain goods and products have lower rates for trade than they have when the country is an EU member. Today we have learned from the European Commission, not from our Government, and not from you, Mr Ljajic, that you have agreed to Croatia, although it is an EU member, provide the treatment it had while the CEFTA agreement was on the government. I want to know, as a national MP, I am interested in, and I believe the citizens of Serbia, who are the reasons why we can't open any trade to Croatia, in which we can't open any trade, any Serbian firm, let alone start some production, to this extent we meet, to allow the Serbian market to be delivered on the plate, although this is not in line with the applicable EU rules? That's one thing. Another thing, under what conditions and how many cigarettes do our manufacturers export to Croatia? Is there any possibility of comparison? What did we get from Croatia in return to make such a serious concession to Croatia or the EU? Is it possible that this gesture of goodwill, on our part, will in many cases mean Rovinj Tobacco Factory, which does not have a large market in the EU, but there will certainly be, in the area of the former Yugoslavia, other countries, signatories of CEFTA Croatia to make possible, which are not members of the EU, Croatia under the same conditions, that is, the Rovinj tobacco factory, trade in cigarettes, as Serbia did? These are questions that we had to answer to get from our government, not to find out from the European Commission how it praises the government of the Republic of Serbia, how cooperative it is, too sensitive to EU requirements. So these are the questions that we, as MPs, are interested in here. It is a good thing this debate, which you are present at, is that we can get answers and not get answers from the European Commission, but from our government. This is what I find very important, and in addition to the issues related to the laws on the agenda, which are also important, but I find that this topic that has appeared in our public today, just before the visit of the President of the Republic of Croatia Ivo Josipovic, in the course of the campaign against Serbs in Croatia, in the course of an anti-Serbian campaign in Croatia, Cyrillic plates, bilingual tags and everything else, we come to the situation of meeting the Rovinj tobacco factory, that Mr Josipovic is speaking here. I expect him to talk here about the rights of Serbs, the return of Serbs, the property of Serbs in Croatia, how to protect the cultural and religious identity of Serbs in Croatia, how to fix their position, not to do what we did before visiting the Hungarian president of Serbia, and when, on the other hand, we brought the Declaration, where we apologize to the Hungarians for being victims of the Second World War of the Hungarian regime. These are the things we need to talk about here. You are here and I expect to hear the answers to the question – under what conditions, why, how did we make this decision? Will other CEFTA countries, which are not EU members, under the same conditions allow Rovinj Tobacco Factorys, or all of Croatia's cigarette manufacturers, to trade cigarettes on this territory? What did Serbia get in return? Will Serbia be compensated for the amount of tax, customs duties charged to apply the rules applicable to all other EU members? Will our producers be able to export more cigarettes to Croatia? Will the Serbian firm, any, at least be able to open a trade in Croatia, if it does not privatise something and buy something? That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24370	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24371	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me first to give a very short retrospective of these relations and what preceded the decision, above all, of the Government's Coordination Body for EU accession, to send a letter to the European Commission. After 2000, a bilateral agreement with Croatia was concluded, as well as with other countries that defined customs rates for certain products. As for the cigarettes we're talking about here today, the customs rate for importing Croatian cigarettes into Serbia was 15%. I'm not talking about some small amount of 55 tonnes, where there was a 10% customs rate, not to bother you, but essentially, the customs rate for importing Croatian cigarettes was 15%. The customs rate for exporting our cigarettes to Croatia was 38%. Then it happened that we sometimes didn't sell a single cigarette truck, and they, as you can see, averaged about 1,600 tons. When negotiations on CEFTA were negotiated, customs rates were not negotiated, but customs rates were taken on the basis of bilateral agreements that CEFTA member states had. That's what I'm saying to draw your attention to the unfavourable position we're starting these negotiations with. Another disadvantage is the fact that this is not a relationship to Serbia, nor is this a relationship between Croatia and Serbia. The European Commission is now negotiating on behalf of Croatia. I want to assure you that this has nothing to do with Josipovic's visit to Belgrade, but frankly, it has something to do with the European Commission's report that's being published today. It has been openly threatened that the entire report will be more or less colored by the fact that we have not reached that agreement and that this could be part of the negotiating framework. Croatia has pressured the European Commission to do two things as a new EU member. The first thing was for it to be part of the negotiating framework, part of the chapter, let's say 35, and if we don't, it would be highlighted as an important political, or economic issue in the negotiations. Secondly, Croatia sought retroactivity, which is contrary to our Constitution and laws, since we failed to reach agreement by 1 July this year. It's been denied, and that's what we refused. What have we done now? We negotiated 86 tariff lines with Croatia according to the methodology that was previously established and which was valid for all countries. You asked a good question. Macedonia, Montenegro, Albania immediately accepted everything the European Commission asked them to do. The only two countries that did not accept were BiH, which has a much bigger problem than we do, because almost nothing is agreed, because Croatia is exporting 1,300,000 to the BiH market. We didn't match the two tariff lines. One refers to cigarettes and the other concerns sugar, which is our requirement to increase the quota for exports of sugar to the EU. That quota has been 180,000 tonnes so far. We have asked for an increase of 45,000 tonnes because we will be damaged because of the fact that now Croatia does not have to import sugar tail from Serbia, that is, the obligation to import sugar tail from EU countries and that loss equivalent we have asked for to export sugar to the EU market. That's 45,000 tons. That's right, we were under a lot of pressure. I haven't said for a moment that our chances are great. I said from the beginning, we enter into negotiations, that both our hands are tied. It's a fact because of these things I've been talking about. First, we had an unfavourable customs rate. Secondly, the more or less all countries have accepted it. Third, which is the experience that was true for Croatia, when Romania and Bulgaria entered the EU or when Slovakia and Hungary, with which they had significant economic relations, also joined the EU. Croatia had to accept rules that then dictated and adapt the agreement dictated by the European Commission. So, we're not in this right now, and this is no exception. This is a rule that the EU uses when joining a new member of the club. It protects its member and wants to be as prepared as possible, more competitive for the European market. What did we do? It wasn't a secret. On Monday, we had a meeting of this co-ordination body consisting of representatives of several ministries. Yesterday we sent a letter to the European Commission saying that we accept the methodology applicable to other tariff lines, which means we want to talk and negotiate further modes. There are other things to get rid of. Finally, the adaptation of the agreement must be signed and the ratification act must be in this parliament. There are no secrets about it, nor is anyone trying to hide anything. It's true that our chances aren't great. What we are looking for is on the one hand to allow Croatia to lift all outside customs barriers that existed in the export of our cigarettes to that market. What is a convenience and you asked, we will now be able to export cigarettes to Croatia with a customs rate of zero and no quotas. So the customs rate for exporting our cigarettes will be zero, and so far it's 38%. That's one of the perks. Unfortunately, the outside customs barriers were also large and this prevented the larger export of our cigarettes to that market. I expect it to change now, but it's not a matter of government. The other thing we're looking for is the removal of these extracurricular barriers. We are now entering the European Commission's protection system. We have nothing to talk to Croatia about now. We will talk to the European Commission in the event of these outside customs barriers. Our third request refers to an increase in sugar quota. For the first time, we have received support from the European Commission and expectations that we may have an increase in that quota. It's still too early to say that we did it. I know that Bozidar Djelic has long tried to increase that sugar quota. It's not easy. I'm not saying we're gonna make it, but this is now an optimistic sign so things can be changed in that direction. Once again, nothing has been signed, nothing has been arranged. It's not our chance to get along right now, to change something more significant. We have sent a letter to the European Commission to say - we accept the methodology, but there are still a few technical things left to be agreed on in order to finally sign the protocol that will come here for ratification.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24372	The word has been made by the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24373	Dear Mr. Minister, it's a good thing we heard there was no negotiation, but that you accepted what they told you. That's one thing. A second question and a simple conclusion – will we finally come into a situation where some rule, some EU methodology that applies to us, is in the interest of our country? So far, all methodologies have been opposed to Serbia's interests, and in this case. Of course, I would like Serbian producers to get more sugar to export to the EU and that is very important. These are excellent prices, it is a safe placement and this would contribute to a better situation both for our farmers and for the industrial production of sugar in Serbia. But was it negotiated with them? Did we get for that concession something? We didn't get anything. So there were no key negotiations, they just said what they were interested in. You said - we have nothing to look for, or we have to accept it. They were alive, so they saw in a year what the position of Serbian businessmen, Serbian businesses, producers, exporters in Croatia would be. Nothing's gonna change. I highly doubt that the European Commission will require Croatia to allow imports and sales of Serbian products there, to remove those barriers that are not legal, which simply exist. Let me remind you, the European Commission, on the topical issue of bilingual tables in Croatia, has come out as inadmissible, although it is a top law in the EU, which is human rights. They are competent to pressure everyone else to make gay parades, and when the Serb community in Croatia cannot have a bilingual board, then it is not the responsibility of the European Commission. Would you also report that in the same situation we say that in Vojvodina they can't be six-lingual tablets like they are now? Jelko Kacin and everyone else on our spine would sit down, we wouldn't be able to breathe, we'd suspend the negotiations, we'd get a negative assessment. (President: Time, Mr. Michael, two minutes and 30 seconds. ) Once you bring us some good news from Brussels, something that is in the interest of the Serbian state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24374	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24375	We've been negotiating this since November last year. So now it's going to be a full year since we started those negotiations. In the end, we came to the situation that they said – if you do not move from the dead point, there is nothing more to negotiate. I'm telling the truth, I have nothing to hide. So, since November last year, we've been negotiating and all we've managed to do is for the first time point out that there will be an increase in the sugar quota and we want to continue the talks on cigarettes, about the modality of applying this methodology that applied to the other 86 tariff lines. There are other things that need to be arranged and that haven't been agreed yet. I'm not saying we're gonna make it, but we're gonna try. The second thing, these 1,600 tonnes spoken of as a three-year average does not apply to imports from Croatia, this applies to all EU countries. Participation of Croatian industry, Croatian tobacco industry – 8% on our market. We have not negotiated this with Croatia, this was done by the European Commission on behalf of the new Member State.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24376	Mr. Djelic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24377	Mr. Vice President, the other day, there was a story here that we were having a bad negotiation of the SAA, about the provisions on the sale of agricultural land. Let me remind you, as you said, Mr. Vice President, the negotiations last and I found that provision already negotiated by Mrs. Dulic-Markovic from G-17 plus, now the URS, and there was nothing I could change. However, we did not agree to the SAA until we received some concession. The concession was 180 thousand tonnes of sugar quota, the concession was 80,000 tonnes of “baby buffet” and the novelty for us, which still gave some small but still dizziness – a quota for the export of river fish and wine. That's a fact. I can't disagree on a technical level. You said it all right. That's exactly how it works. But the truth is, because you were afraid that a sentence would be found in a report that should be published today, that you agreed to make the biggest concession without getting anything concrete in return. That's a fact. It is that we all want to be in the EU, but I think now you see a little better who is correctly and well negotiating, and who is doing something weaker, I think. That is why, by the time we get there, I urge you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia not to accept the framework until we get something. You can't keep giving without getting nothing. I don't want to talk about the negotiations and the Kosovo issue right now. But it seems to me that there's more and more seeing someone giving less and getting more and someone giving a lot and getting almost nothing. Therefore, my appeal, not on behalf of the DS, but on behalf of our country, is not to accept a framework until something is received in return. This is an important thing. The Prime Minister was in Vranje two weeks ago and firmly promised people in southern Serbia that something would be won. (President: Time. ) The tobacco industry, it's south, Vranje, Nis, it's not just the tobacco industry that makes cigarettes, it's our farmers who produce tobacco leaves. I think you've made a mistake and I'm asking you not to accept the framework until we get something in return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24378	Thank you. The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24379	Who knows which time I'm going to say that nothing's been arranged. We've accepted the methodology, and we need to discuss the implementation of this decision. We talk to representatives of the tobacco industry, yesterday we had talks with them, gave them our negotiating position to continue these talks, and they will be fully involved. In the end, the decision will be ratified in this House through the protocol and you will have the opportunity to talk about it when the whole process is over. So he's in the final phase now, but there's still no final deal on this, so we can talk about his details now. I'm not saying, once again, that we have a great chance of making an agreement that is entirely in our favor, and I have also said for what reasons, but we are going to fight to the end for a more favourable agreement, or adaptation to this agreement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24380	Thank you. The word is Ivana Dinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24381	Dear President, honourable ministers, members of the ministry, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, today we have several very important draft laws that are important to discuss and in the best interest of Serbian citizens to support or supplement the proposed laws. The proposal for a transport law and the lease of immovableity has sparked great media attention and interest of Serbian citizens, as this bill has long been expected and necessary for the development of the real estate market, an extremely important factor for the further economic development of our country, for the creation of a sound legal basis on which the intervention in transport and the lease of real estate would be based on the establishment of a wide development system, the legitimate provision of real estate services. In this proposal, the law regulates the activity of traffic intervention and the lease of immovable property observed with several aspects. One of the most significant is that users of traffic broker services and the lease of real estate will be safer and more protected, as criteria for legal business will change and a higher level of seriousness will be required. It is proposed to introduce an expert examination which the entrepreneur is obliged to pass, whereby he may only be a candidate for a professional examination if he has acquired a professional preparation of at least the fourth degree. Only those enrolled in the intermediary register are scheduled to operate. Also, it is of great importance to reduce black and grey market developments, making it much easier for legal agencies to work and reducing the huge budget damage caused by the operations of illegal agencies. It was absolutely necessary to introduce order and work of agencies on the market in respect of EU standards in all areas of the operation of transport intermediaries and the lease of immovable property. In order to increase the quality of the work of economic operators, the security that is necessary for each client to possess in co-operation with the same entity is prescribed by the intermediaries in this bill to ensure and restore liability insurance for insurance companies in the Republic of Serbia in order to compensate for damages to the employer resulting from failure to fulfil contractual obligations undertaken by the intermediation agreement. Therefore, customers will be protected from unconscious business agencies, and we will also raise this business to a higher level by introducing European standards on licensing, because this achieves a better quality of service for real estate users, because it is undeniable that any agent should and must have knowledge and skills in selling real estate, the way in which they will sell a certain property quality, what offer they will make, what offer they will make to satisfy both the party of intermediaries and foreign users of the intervention services, and that they know the legal framework when collecting the necessary documentation and working with it. Another very important measure of protection is an intermediation contract, which is necessary for users to sign services in order to ensure safety both in the case of the employer and in the case of intermediaries. What is important for Serbian citizens to know is that the brokerage fee is arranged precisely by this mediation contract, which defines whether the intermediary is entitled to a indirect fee at the time of the pre-contract he brokered or the right to an interim fee is obtained in the conclusion of the contract for which the mediator intervened. In my presentation, taking into account the time in which we live, we cannot work without taking into account the importance of information and communication technologies, I will also explain the importance of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on cooperation in the field of information and communication technologies. This bill aims at economic development of both peoples through investment and exchange of experiences, skills, information and ideas. The development and improvement of co-operation in the area of the IT sector for the Republic of Serbia should be a simple and feasible task, as our country achieves a year-by-year growth in exports of these information technologies, because the capacities and potentials that we have are extremely high. What is crucial in the current co-operation relations is the full and rapid implementation of the proposed information and communication technologies, both in the public sector and in services intended for citizens, and that is what needs to be paid attention. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan is of great importance. Although it does not create financial obligations for the Republic of Serbia, our country is generally prepared to provide a number of incentives to invest in this business, many tax reliefs for IT companies and grants to beginners, create and open production facilities to make the vision of all of us, to make the Republic of Serbia a technological and investment center of Europe a reality. All of this means that our country would become a state of major investment that would bring a significant number of new jobs, and in this way we would be able to retain a large number of highly educated young people in the country, allowing them to show in their own, not in a foreign country knowledge, skills, talent. In this way, it would restore the awareness of young people that the state of Serbia is a country that is capable and capable of investing, but also worth investing in. In this regard and in order to sign new general agreements that would improve the continued growth and development of our economy, I call on my fellow MPs and MPs to support, as well as the SPS in the voting day, all proposals of the law in this joint search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24382	The word has a folk MP, Ninoslav Giric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24383	The Honorable President, respected ministers and members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, is on the agenda of the law, and I will talk about the proposed amendments to the Law on Electronic Trade, which mainly concerns erasing definitions that create confusion and harmonisation with the e-commerce directive. It can't be said that the current legal framework for electronic trade in Serbia was bad. It was a bad application in practice. So the legal framework for electronic trade is not problematic, but it is a very low level of electronic business in Serbia. Whether we want to admit it or not, we are still far from the objectives outlined in the strategy for the development of the information society, the strategy for the development of electronic communications and the strategy for the development of trade. In this regard, we should follow the experience of developed countries that have provided a significant incentive for the initial growth of electronic trade. It is a useful example of the United States, which sought to preserve the Internet as a medium free of any regulation on which competition and freedom of choice should shape the market. In 1997, the US administration formulated several general principles that would create a global free trade zone on the Internet. They lifted unnecessary barriers and restrictions on free trade on the Internet, with a recommendation from governments of all countries not to introduce new regulatory, bureaucratic procedures or new taxes and customs for commercial activities on the Internet. Then, speeding up global electronic trade, etc. In 1997, the US Congress passed a law on tax freedom on the Internet, introducing, among other things, moratorium on taxation of electronic trade on the Internet. Other components of the law mentioned, which the US Congress has brought to the moratorium on new federal taxes on the Internet or for Internet access, then declarations that the internet should be freed from international customs and other trade barriers. A three-year ban on introducing new taxes on internet access, and multiple discriminatory taxes on electronic trade. The three-year moratorium was later extended on several occasions and the last extension was in 2007, and is valid until 2014. Therefore, in order to give an initial incentive to the development of electronic trade, it is necessary, in addition to the construction of adequate IT infrastructure, that the state temporarily give up works of its budgetary passages, either by reducing the handling or by introducing subsidies, in order to increase the competitiveness of electronic trade, hence, and its scope. When, after a certain period of time, the volume of electronic trade becomes a satisfactory state, it would benefit far more than initial denials. In addition, we are facing a painful process of harmonising the outdated postal and customs systems and relevant legal regulations with the Law on Electronic Trade. Certain provisions of this law that regulate tax, customs and the prevention of money laundering also pose an obstacle to further e-commerce growth. In addition, it is necessary to review, adapt and liberalise customs regulations and to limit the discretionary powers of customs. Not all problems can be solved with only one amendment and an addition to the law, but it's a good start. The promoter himself is aware that this law only regulates legal frameworks for electronic trade and strives to do so with minimal restrictions so as not to create unnecessary barriers to electronic trade. I will make a few suggestions or thoughts, such as in Article 2. It says that this law does not apply to the protection of personal data. My proposal is to introduce the obligation of information society service providers, unless otherwise defined by law, to make specific policies and procedures regarding the protection of personal data, to make these procedures clear, publicly public and to have an authority to care for their respect. Article 3 states that the provider of information society services is a legal person or entrepreneur as well as a natural person who has the properties of a trader in accordance with the law governing trade. Physical persons, especially those who are unemployed and are engaged in the provision of intellectual services should not be required to have the property of a trader within the meaning of the Trade Act. They should be given the opportunity to register for a certain period of time, let's say five years, whether, at the end of that time period, entrepreneurs, but traders, will give up their registration and their activity. In this way, unemployed people would be able to develop their activity after which they would decide whether to act and register. Such a measure would also have a positive impact on the retention of young and professional people in the country. It is good to delete Article 2 of Article 5 concerning the necessity of registering service providers in the Register of Business Entities before they begin to carry out the activity of providing services. The very fact that the provision of information society services will no longer require a special authorisation or authorisation. It will contribute to an increase in the volume of electronic commerce. Finally, in the last position of Article 22, it stands in the case of particularly serious injuries and repetitive injuries to the position of the 1st member, a ban on the performance of a legal person for three to six months can be imposed. I believe that such a restriction on the time limit for the exercise of activity to a maximum of six months could negatively reflect in terms of incentives for serious injuries and repetitive injuries in attitude 1 and also other attitudes. As a result, it is better not to formulate the upper limit, but rather to ban the exercise of activity for at least three months, while the upper limit would be determined in accordance with the severity of the infringement and in accordance with other relevant legal regulations. Finally, we support these amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade, in the day of the vote, the SNS parliamentary group will support these amendments and amendments to the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24384	The word has a folk MP Ljubica Mrdaković Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24385	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, members of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will first say something about the Export and Import Act of the Double Imam. In light of the integration processes and the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Serbia with EU legislation, as well as respect for the commitments undertaken by international conventions, whose signator and our country, the Export and Import Act of Double Use, in no doubt introduces order into the dynamic dual-use market, especially if it takes into account the permanent progress in the creation and use of software solutions, as well as weapons and equipment that may be misused by non-entity persons whose end-use may be deliberately used and abused by various militant and terrorist groups. In a comprehensive and comprehensive manner, the proposed law prescribes conditions and procedures for export, import, transit, provision of brokerage services and technical support for dual-use goods and for the Republic of Serbia to the Republic of Serbia and via the territory of the Republic of Serbia by air, land, waterway or combined transport. Also, during the issue of export licences and imports of dual-use goods, a number of state authorities and security structures were hired to avoid any irregularities, possible abuses during that process. On the other hand, the regular and continuous sending of the report by the authorised importer or exporter to the competent ministry introduces complete control and insight into the operations of dual-use goods and the criminal policy prescribed for non-compliance with the provisions of this law will further stimulate participants in the transport of dual-use goods. Finally, even before this law is passed, it is likely that its revision will take place in due course, because the harmonisation of the law with the situation on the ground is necessary in the shortest time period, because the law regulates extremely dynamic matter that is not constant, but is upgraded and evolved from day to day, and the proposed law will probably have to be constantly upgraded and perfected. As far as the Transport Intermediation Act is concerned, it shall, in a clear and precise way, first regulate this area. All entrants in immovableity are facing major problems. Citizens buying or leased immovableity resolve basic life issues by investing significant financial resources, requiring adequate legislation to give citizens security. Since the emergence of real estate agencies in our country, it has happened that citizens meet unregistered agencies, inaccessible competent authorities, or even when agencies are registered are not rare non-professional agents, without the necessary qualifications, who have avoided the conclusion of a mini-service agreement with citizens for real estate services, large mini-service fees, incomplete and incorrect real estate information, and often the citizens have been deceived in a wide variety of ways. Additional uncertainty comes from here because there is no liability insurance. On the other hand, the real estate agencies are, despite their efforts to find and bring into contact with the employer another person in order to conclude legal work, to give an objective opinion on the price of immovableity, the necessary presentation of immovableity on the market, to verify the documents proving the right of property, to point out the possible risks still becomes free of the promised commission because citizens bought or sold the same immovableity from a competitive agency and such situations often had an epilogue in court. Finally, citizens pay commissions in cash to agencies rather than through an account, which is why money control is impossible, the state is left without data on the transactions carried out, so taxation is also questioned. The proposal for a law on immovableity and lease intermediation, first in a clear way, determines the subject of regulation and application of other regulations. The meaning of traffic intervention and the lease of immovableity, the concept of intermediaries and the register of intermediaries is defined. In particular, conditions for the provision of interventions such as registration in the register, the obligation to pass an expert examination, the conclusion of a liability insurance contract for damages, and the performance of this activity in the relevant business space and with the necessary equipment are provided. These provisions aim to ensure that only intermediaries who meet the legal requirements and as the most important application in the intermediation register are engaged in the mediation business. In the absence of compliance with this provision, the law specifically provides for fines and safeguards that should contribute to more effective law enforcement, as one of the most important instruments for security security is the obligation to conclude an intermediation contract with the precise elements that the contract must contain, which are concluded by the authorising officer and by the mediator. The law clearly and taxively lists the obligations of the employer and the mediator, so it is another step towards the comprehensive regulation of this matter. As a special need created in practice, Article 26 which provides for exclusive mediation, which in my opinion can act preventively on common situations in practice and relations between several intermediaries, such as provisions relating to the sub-registration contract. The law also prescribes a way of advertising immovableity, which is very important, because in practice we have encountered advertising in an inappropriate way and for the sake of the successful application of this law, a delayed start for the application of certain provisions is specifically envisaged. The bill contains the same or similar solutions contained in both the laws of the countries of the region and in the EU Member States, which will provide additional security for future foreign investment. In addition, this law aims to regulate the problems that have arisen in practice, to provide security to citizens who buy, sell or take through intermediaries themselves, and to enable the state to control the transactions carried out, adequate taxation. With the adoption of the proposed law achieving a greater number of objectives that touch us all as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the necessity of the legal arrangement of this matter, the SNS will support these amendments and additions of the law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24386	MP Radmilo Kostic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24387	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, since we also heard a lot about the amendments and additions to this set of laws last Thursday, I will first and foremost refer to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition. The reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Law are related to the improvement of the procedural framework, the application of competition rules, and to the elimination of the observed shortcomings in the process in the period since its entry into force in November 2009 in practice, the Commission of the Court of Justice, as well as the remarks and comments made in Serbia's 2012 progress report, the European Commission. What should be pointed out is that the European Commission's report was not satisfied with the work of our commission, while on our commission's website it said that the evaluations were favourable. I also did not see that the Commission's reports mention granting state subsidies to companies that were politically similar, which is mentioned in the EU's founding act as a second pillar of protection against unfair competition. Statistics from the global competitiveness report published by the World Economic Forum say the following year, in 2008, Serbia took 129 places from 134 ranked countries, in 2009, we were 130 places, and in 2011 we were 137 of 139 ranked countries. There were Armenia and Venezuela behind us. The European Bank's transition index for reconstruction and development in the area of competition protection, ranging from one to four plus, is located in the lower part of the European transition countries with almost 2.33. Albania, BiH and Montenegro are behind us from the countries of the region. In the practice of the European Commission, the application of this institute solves more than 60% of the cases, indicating that it is an effective way to eliminate violations of competition rules. What is significant is the introduction of newspapers in a law that treats collective domination, where two and more market participants can have a dominant position if they perform or act as one participant in the relevant market. The amendments to the law also regulate the presence of an economic profession on the commission, unlike the current situation where all members of the commission are lawyers. This will ensure a balanced composition of the council, with a view to increasing the competence of the Commission, in particular with regard to economic findings and proper consideration of the economic aspect. What is also significant, which is Article 24 of point 4 of point 3, words -- and the public's reputation, replaces the wording -- or the ethical code. The code of ethics is not a binding act but merely an appeal to the morality of the board members. I do not prejudge that Serbs are all subject to any influence, I am merely expressing my doubts about the similarity of the current members of the commission who were elected three years ago. The Ethics Code may have a weight in developed EU countries, however, it did not give us the expected results, especially in local self-government. It may be good to provide for a special act in place of the code of ethics in the law which will contain clear sanctions for members of the commission who violate professional rules. Also, the powers that the President of the Commission has impose on him to be a person of credibility and one Verice Barac. Those are some of my observations, perhaps recommendations. I would also refer to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade, and it represents the most modern form of trade today, a mix of business vision and technologies that can be achieved, allowing companies to be more efficient and flexible in internal relations, making room for closer co-operation with suppliers, as well as for a more responsible and better understanding of consumers themselves. Also, electronic trade allows companies to choose the best partners, regardless of their geographical position and sell on the global market. The importance of this type of trade and its growing involvement in the overall exchange of goods and services should not be specifically discussed, but it is also necessary to highlight the importance of making this type of trade as clear and precise as possible by law. The 2009 law, which regulates this area, regulates the legal framework for electronic trade, with minimal restrictions, so as not to create unnecessary barriers to electronic trade. Although this law represents an expression of legal harmonisation with European legislation, the four-year experience in the application of this law has highlighted the need for certain amendments and additions to this type of trade to be fully integrated, both in the legal and market framework and to further formulate relations with other system laws. Here we think, above all, of the Law on Trade, the Law on Consumer Protection and the Law on the Registration of Business Companies, and all in order to further harmonise with the Directive and establish legal certainty in this area. The most significant amendments to the existing law relate to a more precise formulation of the basic text of the law, to eradicating definitions that lead to confusion in the application of the law, to more precise regulation of the application of laws, i.e. enlargement and to providers of services outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to improving legal protection by adding new powers to market inspectors and electronic communications inspectors. These changes and additions will have a positive impact, both on all information society service providers and on the users of these services and consumers, in terms of removing concerns about the existing law, making their business easier and more efficient. My opinion is that this proposal should have been linked, or at least here to mention an electronic payment, for which not all conditions exist in Serbia, even when it comes to international electronic trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24388	Thank you. National MP Jelena Budimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24389	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected colleagues, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, is in front of us today on the agenda, among other things, and a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Trade, and I will base myself on the bill in my presentation. Electronic trade is today the most important area of electronic business. In modern trends of modern business, especially in business between businesses, the increased presence of the Internet as an electronic business channel is increasingly evident, as it provides the lowest operating costs at the most efficient performance of business operations. The use of electronic trade has accelerated and improved the economies of developed countries, and in many of the most developed countries it is the most popular type of trade, and in addition the data on the growth of trade in countries that have the most developed information technologies. As early as 2001, the EU defined its strategy for the development of an information society in Lisbon, with the aim of keeping Member States on the economic level of development and enabling it to grow further. In 2003, the EU Council of Ministers adopted an action plan "Electron Europe 2005", aimed at having modern public electronic services and a favourable environment for the development of electronic business by the end of 2005. Serbia, as a member of an initiative for electronic Southeast Europe, signed an agenda for the development of an information society as early as 2002. In Serbia, the Law on Electronic Trade was adopted on 29 May 2009, and entered into force on 6 June of the same year. To date, however, the Law on Electronic Trade in Serbia has not fully revived, as it has not provided sufficient security. For many reasons, Serbian citizens do not opt for this type of purchase because of the fear of losing money, because of fears of misuse of personal data, etc. Today, we have before us amendments and additions to this law, which aim to remove and improve certain ambiguities and shortcomings that have been observed in practice under this law. They are also very important in terms of bringing Serbia's citizens closer to this area. The proposed amendments and additions shall be made to the provision of individual formulations and shall comply with this law with other system laws, such as the Law on Trade, the Consumer Protection Act. One of the most significant newspapers is the more precise regulation of the law enforcement field and this change allows electronic trade to take place at an unlimited distance and at a minimum time interval. Changes will also establish legal certainty, which means that the state should gain citizens' confidence in this area. The amendments to the law will have a positive impact, both on all providers of information society services and on users of this service, consumers. This set of laws is very important on the reform path of our economy and, for all of these reasons, the SNS parliamentary group will support these changes in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24390	Thank you. MP Zoran Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24391	Dear President, Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a set of seven draft laws, two draft laws that the state of Serbia has not had so far and which are in the spirit of bringing our country closer to the EU and European standards, two amendments and complementing existing legal solutions, and three draft laws on the validation of international agreements of the Republic of Serbia. I would pay particular attention to the proposal for a law on export and import of dual-use goods. Under the notion of double-use goods, goods which, apart from civilians, can also be considered military purposes, consistent with the list of goods and dual-use technologies of the EU. The aim of the dual-purpose traffic control is to fight the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight of international terrorism. In 2004, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1540, which marks the expansion of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons as a major threat to international peace and security. This document calls on all member states to fulfil their obligations and prevent the spread of all types of weapons of mass destruction. The resolution obliges all Member States to adopt and implement effective laws and implement them through the establishment of controls and measures, such as control mechanisms at the national border on export and import. The checklist of goods and dual-use technologies of the EU brings together all different international regimes, including the Vasseran Agreement, which controls both conventional weapons and related products and technology for dual use, the Convention on Chemical Weapons, the mandatory international agreement that controls chemicals and chemical weapons, the missile technology control regime, a voluntary international association that controls the transfer of technology and equipment for ballistic and cruise missiles for space aircraft and other crew-free delivery systems, i.e. without people, a group of nuclear suppliers, is an optional international agreement, but also a collective political agreement of participating countries, i.e. signatories. It also controls the export of dual-use equipment, which can be used as nuclear weapons. Also, there is an Australian group, an informal agreement of states that represents an addition to the Chemical Weapons Convention. The aim of the proposal for this law is to establish controls in the areas of exports and imports of dual-use goods, to provide technical assistance and brokerage services to ensure, above all, the defence interests of the Republic of Serbia and respect for the international obligations of our country. The foreign trade, arms and military equipment and dual-use goods law of 2005 is in line with European legislation. But the disintegration of Serbia-Montenegro's state union, which was also covered by the new EU rules and procedures, is a fundamental reason for Serbia, like all countries in the region, to pass its national law. This draft law defines the areas of application, the way and the procedure for issuing licences, regulates the issue of control, as well as sanctions and penalties for action, or inaction in accordance with the proposed legal solution. It should also be pointed out that this bill is fully in line with the provisions of Article 3. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the EU and the Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Serbia, of the other part, as well as the Council Regulation of May 2009 and April 2012 establishing a Community regime on exports and control, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use goods. The second proposal for a law set out in this set is the proposal for a law on traffic intervention and on the lease of immovable property. This bill stemmed from the need to regulate a segment of our market that was full of uncertainty, illogicality and irresponsibility. According to some estimates, the annual turnover is about three billion euros on such an unregulated market, one billion of which is achieved through 500 registered intermediaries who earn about three billion dinars of the intermediary commission. Starting from this data, it is assumed that the annual export of unpaid taxes is between 600 million dinars and two billion dinars. Transport and the lease of immovable property took place in most cases on an illegal market, causing many problems, starting with the above-mentioned billing and tax collection, to legal certainty, i.e. the uncertainty of traffic participants and the lease of immovable property. The bill creates conditions for traffic and the lease of immovableity to be introduced into legal flows. It provides liability insurance, affects the quality of services of intermediaries, primarily by defining the necessary professional equipment for mediating persons. The obligation to conclude an intermediation contract with all relevant elements, obligations and responsibilities of the contractors shall be defined. This way, you get a record of closed contracts with traffic data and the lease of immovable property, such as species, value, volume and everything else that matters. The commission shall be charged to legal flows of money and, most importantly, intermediaries shall be obliged to provide the buyer, the tenant with all the documentation relevant to the immovableity, and to keep it for a certain period of time. The measures to be implemented during the application of this law relate primarily to the establishment of a register of intermediaries, the public in work, the training programme and ultimately the control of the work of intermediaries and the expression of appropriate measures. The draft law also provides for the adoption of seven supporting sublegal acts that are closer to regulating the issue of the register of intermediaries, carrying out expert examinations, the height of taxis, the composition and compensation for the work of the Commission, the way in which the certificates of the professional examination, the content and the form of the same, as well as the minimum technical conditions for the space and equipment needed to carry out the intervention, and at the end of the form, content, deadlines and methods of keeping the mediation documentation. Finally, with a few words, I will say something about the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection of Competition. The proposal to amend and supplement this law primarily defines the notion of a dominant position on the market, as well as the market power of market participants using nine parameters, starts in the market structure, through market share of economic and financial power, to the strength of the buyer and technological advantages, i.e. intellectual property rights. The concept of collective domination of two or more legally independent participants is also defined. The draft law also lays down the concept of direct or indirect control over another participant or a larger number of market participants, as well as the composition of commissions and councils, i.e. how to choose them. A new position shall be added in the law concerning the ethical code and the same attitude shall be determined closer. The bill defines the Commission's income and expenditure issue, as well as the elements for determining its earnings. The proposal for amending and supplementing the law also addresses the issue of the right of appeal to the Commission's conclusions, as well as the rights of appeal to the Council, as well as the provisions on the suspension of the examination of competition's injury, as well as the deadline for the enforcement of party obligations in the procedure, and for the delivery of evidence of compliance with the conditions of the measure, as well as the deadlines and reasons for the continuation of the proceedings. The termination conclusion, i.e. the extension, brings only advice. The main reasons for the adoption of changes and additions are to improve the rules and remove the observed shortcomings by the commission and the competent court, as well as objections from the 2012 report on Serbia's progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24392	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24393	Dear Mr Minister, the honourable representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the trend of globalisation, as well as the growing number of Internet users and the reputation of new technologies contributes to the exclusive growth of electronic trade and is seen not only as a global trend, but also as a new branch of business and trade law. Electronic trade is a multidisciplinary concept that affects the way interactions and negotiations with clients take place, the way payments are made, as well as relations with suppliers. This concludes the request for the creation of a new legal and market framework, based on the European Parliament Directive of 8 June 2000, on certain rights, aspects of information society services, in particular electronic trade and in the internal market. Since the Republic of Serbia is not yet an EU member country, some of the solutions in the Directive have been modified because they cannot be applied in our legal legislative system. After the adoption of the Law on Electronic Trade and its entry into force on 6 June 2009, they were made in continuity with the monitoring and analysis of the existing law. After analysis and monitoring and the functions of the existing law, many shortcomings and failures that amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Trade need to be corrected. I must point out that when making amendments to the e-commerce Act, solutions from countries in the region that are similar to market development have been taken. The proposed provisions amending and supplementing the Law on electronic trade relate to the matter governed by the law, in which there is a necessary alignment with the requirements of the market and the Directive, as well as a more precise relationship with other system laws – the Consumer Protection Act, the Law on Trade and the Law on registration of companies. New amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade have a positive impact on information society service providers, as well as on users of this service and consumers. One of the most significant newspapers is the more precise regulation of the law enforcement field by expanding it to service providers that do not have a seat in the Republic of Serbia. The new law obliges to comply with the relevant rules of the law of the Republic of Serbia. When drawing up the text of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Trade, the interested parties had the opportunity to make their observations and suggestions on certain members of the law, all with the aim of creating a functional law, a law in line with the needs of the market. How important is the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade, it says that the value of electronic trade in the Republic of Serbia last year amounted to around 180m euros and that this type of transaction, i.e. buying and selling via the internet, was used by 600,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Although I believe that we are quite late in the development of electronic trade for the world, which suggests that in the Republic of Serbia the average value of transactions on our websites is slightly less than 50 euros, while on foreign sites the average value of the transaction is around 180 euros, this data gives us the obligation to follow European standards, because it is the desire of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to soon become part of a large European family. The Republic of Serbia is on the right track to develop buying and selling via the Internet. Electronic trade is the future, perspective and possibility of a major contribution to economic development and employment in the Republic of Serbia. Based on all this and what is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS parliamentary group will support amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Trade in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24394	Three minutes and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Nebojsa Beric. After that, the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24395	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, the legislative proposal on the intervention and lease of real estate should introduce order in a mildly said chaotic state in which this area has been in place for many years. The real estate market in Serbia today is characterized by a large share of the grey economy, amateurism in the conduct of intermediate businesses, great uncertainty for citizens, frequent examples of classical fraud, where one and the same immobility is sold simultaneously to different customers, leading to many families being left without their savings to solve housing problems, as well as without real estate. A positive feature, the adoption of one of these laws is precisely the provision of legal certainty for both natural and legal persons who use the services of brokers in the lease and traffic of immovable property. We've been very familiar with cases so far, call intermediations, or at least their hints and the use of all possible connections and acquaintances, to find an optimal solution to housing problems, but optimal solutions only after mediation prove to be simply gone. Because of all this defining the intermedial role, their rights and obligations, I hope it will help in one universal way, only so that it should help all those who will be shown this need in practice to come to acceptable solutions. This law introduces a register of intermediaries with clearly defined rules for the registration of companies and entrepreneurs, which will be run by the Ministry and via the Internet, because transparency of data from the register is guaranteed. In Article 14. The draft law defines the business space and the appropriate equipment and is functionally separated from the living space. I absolutely agree that it's not pleasant to arrange a lease, a sale or anything, by guessing what's well cooked for today's lunch in the room next door. As far as appropriate equipment is concerned, I hope that apart from the phone and the computer, there is also a need for adequate software, which should bring real estate closer, in a three-dimensional form, and in order to make possible traffic or lease real estate as concrete and faster as possible and to mutual satisfaction. As regards the right to an intermediate fee, in Articles 20 and 21, it is certainly clear that the price of the intervention so far has been established usually at the rate of the final contracted price, sale or lease. The point is that this fee is paid through the issue of a fiscal account, for which I immediately point out and express my suspicion, and I think that this must also be explicitly highlighted in this proposal, as well as provided for in Chapter 5 of the Criminal Provisions, where it is necessary to clearly formulate the offence, as well as the level of possible punishment. It's all about that, as always, surveillance. Article 31 provides that the supervision of the application of this law and the rules adopted under this law shall be carried out by the competent ministry. It is explicitly stated in point 2 that this is done by means of a market inspector, by the powers prescribed by law and regulated by trade. It's a store, but if everything's that smooth, we'll see in practice. So far, inspection supervision has only existed as a formality. It is also important to emphasise and reiterate that a category of compulsory insurance is introduced against liability for damages that an intermediary could inflict on the employer which is one of the existing European norms. The SNS parliamentary group will support this bill because for the first time the area will be organised in a social legal system and will be fully in line with European standards. We also have hope that this law will be applied in practice and strictly applied, and we expect from the ministry that this surveillance that I spoke of earlier will be applied and consistently respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24396	Four minutes and ten seconds, used from the time of the parliamentary group. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24397	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, let's interrupt this atmosphere in the early '70s when the assembly sessions seemed to be reading with the torments of prepared referendums and making these recommendations by the employers and going back to the real life and the weather in which we live. So, we broke up this session of the Assembly on Thursday in a strange way, so much the concluse master waved his hands to interrupt the session that I thought he thought he was on the naked water polo team or that he really chose the president of the Union of Artistic Swimming, as Mr. Cvian said justifiably absent. (President: National MP, please, Article 106) Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please speak on the subject of the agenda. Today we came to discuss the Competition Protection Act, and we were waiting for an atmosphere that was no longer the same as Thursday night. We have been awaited by circumstances that have been dramatically changed. When we discuss the Competition Protection Act today, of course, the first topic will be this scandalous agreement and this decision to respect the CEFTA agreement on Croatian cigarettes. It is the same CEFTA agreement that led to the signing of bitter tears diving as radicals, and today you apply it at a time when Croatia joined the EU and it will mean that in Serbia, Croatian cigarettes continue to be sold at action rates four times lower than cigarettes from the EU. Now explain to Serbian citizens who are struggling to raise money to operate abroad. Explain to Serbian citizens why you gave up 300m euros and why you then prescribe the measures of Lazar Krstic and Vukic's tax on Stors Khan and Guzen Bauer when Serbian citizens will have to make up for it. So, the citizens of Serbia are saving for Croatia to have. It is a wonderful host SNS attitude towards the citizens of this country. But don't you gentlemen treat your own property that way? Well, it would be the next time you take an oath for the highest function in the country, the text of that oath reads -- I swear by my private property that I will work in the interest of the Serbian citizens. Then maybe I'll believe you because I'm going back to these dramatic circumstances that happened. What actually happened? Today comes the president of Croatia, Mr. Josipovic. I am very pleased that Croatia is promoting good neighbourly relations with Croatia. Let's do it the way Mr. Tadic does it, not the way you do it. Last time he was president of Hungary. On the neck of our noses we brought here a resolution that respected the rights of the Hungarians... . (President: National MP, I remind you now for the second time to talk about the agenda topic or try to bring the presence of senior statesmen of other countries in the region into contact with the agenda point. I'm really asking you that. ) Here, I'm going back to the agenda. The topic of the agenda is the Law on the Protection of Competition. When we talk about the protection of competition, I as a responsible man and as an MP elected not only by the citizens of Kruševac but also by Nis and Vranja, I have to think about what will happen to Nis and Vranje's tobacco industry since the Prime Minister says he will take care of that part of Serbia. Of course, I'm very skeptical when this package of trade laws is ahead of us even though I have great confidence in Mr. Ljajic and the quality of these laws he's done, and I think that the people of the ministry have really proposed quality changes. Unfortunately, real life deny the letters of the law. Because, again, I underline how we will protect ourselves from competition and what our Competition Protection Commission will do when we have the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which, by one move, can change any decision of Parliament and any decision and the ruling majority and the efforts of us from opposition parties. What is it, a dictatorship? What is it when Parliament's decisions are not respected? What is it when all the laws are accepted on the back of your neck? What happens tomorrow when the president of Albania arrives? What kind of gift will he bring from Belgrade? To go back to this competition law. In this law, there are three major problems for us from the DS that give us great mistrust. The first is, those letters of the law which say that the actors in the negotiation with the Competition Protection Commission can negotiate and agree on how much they will pay the fine and whether they will pay the penalty. We are creating this atmosphere in a country where the President of the Republic, the first decision on amnesty, has been made by a man who has been convicted for corruption. This is a highly corrupt decision in this law and shows your real fight against corruption. The government of the Republic of Serbia and the institutions in this country cannot fight corruption in this way, because this is a legal provision that exists in the laws on the protection of competition, European laws. These European laws have been familiar with the Commission's decades-long existence to protect competition on the political scene of Serbia and Europe. So that's where the people in the arranged system made the Competition Protection Commission, so she worked for decades, did her job, and then they made a decision like this so you could make a deal with the commission. In Serbia, we have a situation that the president of the Republic is amnesty of persons convicted of corruption, reminding me of Dr Inic's case, and then you want to convince us that there will be no place for corruption and settlement. You know, that declarative push to fight corruption is scattered like a soap bubble when we get this letter of the law. Read the law, if you say – topic. You know what the law says? Just what I'm telling you. If you don't understand this, then how will you understand that Serbia has done 300m euros in damages to the country because you released Croatian cigarettes under the CEFTA Agreement. You don't understand that until then. I thought you were doing this on purpose, but you're doing this out of misunderstanding. I don't have time to open a party-political school, but what can I tell you when I'm talking about the Competition Protection Commission? Do you know that the largest Croatian trade chain, Agrokor and Mercator, are being joined at the moment? Do you know how much of their share will be on the market for the Republic of Serbia? Did you wake up this morning with that thought? You don't care that when you cross the Wallin border, you have reason to be lucky. You know what, we in the DS share the concerns of the citizens of Serbia, what's the damage to this, by the budget? Why are we saving for another republic to have? Does every president of the Republic have a gift to leave Belgrade, Sheik with a hotel, Hungary with a resolution, the president of Croatia with...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24398	People's MP, I ask you more carefully about foreign statesmen and the qualification of visits. I really ask you to discuss the subject of the agenda and not to endanger the dignity of the National Assembly with arguments about visits.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24399	Now let's talk about the Law of Transport and the lease of immovable property. This law was prepared during the mandate of Minister Slobodan Milosavljevic, a good law, well-prepared, well written, but what traffic of real estate we are talking about, in 2013, when we have the Government of the Republic of Serbia that caused millions of squares of business space to be used, when the non-Imarian industry died, when there is no construction industry, when there is no raising these squares of real estate traffic we are talking about, what we are talking about today when Serbia is today, according to the UN organisation's indicators, the worst-placed foreign investment in the last 13 years. It's your mirror, your success mirror. Here, for a gentleman who doesn't understand... (The People's MP Vuceta Toskovic, from the post: Whose credit is this? )......................................................................................................... . Here, I'll shake hands like this to show, do you understand now?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24400	People's MP, please stop in your presentation when you are spoken to by the chairman. So, no direct address, and no other MPs. I thank you all for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24401	This is the weakest amount of investment in the last 13 years, we've never had less investment in Serbia, I don't think there's any need to put glasses on while I'm saying this, associate enough. I don't know if that movement hypnotizes or what it's doing, but I'm telling you, there's never been any weaker results, because when it comes to the scale of foreign investment. Now you want us to have the Law on Immobilization. What immovableity, what traffic? It's a dramaticly serious warning, what I'm telling you, and I'm sorry that it doesn't reach the minds of those I'm trying to awaken my conscience, that they're responsible for what they're doing in this country. What can I tell you about the amendments to the e-commerce Act? This is about harmonisation of the EU directive. Do not put harmonisation with EU directives on a large carrot and make our negotiating position our final condition – we agree to everything, just give us that positive report. That's not a good negotiating position. Negotiate as Mr Djelic negotiated. You are doing what the government of Zoran Djindjic did, which was done by the people in whose chair you are now in, to worry about the interests of the Republic of Serbia when you negotiate. I like our neighbours, and I have nothing against the Republic of Croatia, against Hungary. Take care of the interests of the Republic of Serbia when you negotiate. That should be your priority, that's what the Constitution says, and that's the text of the oath you took, and I'll go back to some more things from the Competition Protection Act. Practice has shown that a large number of commissions are falling into courts and then the question is, who makes up for the damage to economic operators? The question arises why does the commission earn from the decisions charged on concentration and where does it deposit that money and how much of that money is kept in the budget, and how much on its account and how long is it kept in that account? Here we have submitted several very useful amendments that will help you to improve this law, and I expect you to adopt these amendments because it concerns the budget of the Republic of Serbia which is empty and who needs to be filled. Finally, we return to the pre-2001 period when we did not have the Competition Protection Act, but we had the same political parties in power. In 2001, the first democratic Prime Minister, Dr Zoran Djindjic, was elected, and his government, thanks to the engagement of Mr Djelic and Zoran Djindjic and if you do not believe me, read Brankica Stankovic, the government decided that Croatian cigarettes no longer have the treatment of domestic products in Serbia. This is how the interests of the Republic of Serbia are protected. If you really want to be respected in the world, don't let you get a big carrot first, and then again with a stick on your head, and then we'll take the chestnuts out of the fire that you pushed into the fire and grabbed the mechs to make that fire as big as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24402	It's been used 13 minutes since the parliamentary group's time. I see the minister is also registered, so first he has a word, and since MP Zoran Babic and MP Aleksandra Tomic are also registered, then a replica for one of you, since you are an authorised representative. The word first has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24403	Very briefly as regards the amendment of the Competition Protection Act, Article 58, the EU directive, more specifically Article 9 of the Directive, has not been amended, it has also been a request from the European Commission and one of the objections that is often highlighted, when it comes to the current Competition Protection Act, because 60% of the disputes in this area are considered to be resolved in this way and will improve and affect the effectiveness of the work of the Commission itself and these were the motives for amending this Member of the law. We are returning to the question of adaptation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and the figure, or damages of 300m euros, is mentioned here, provided that this model and this proposal on the EU table are applied, Serbia's budget would receive less than 7.9m euros based on reduced customs rates, i.e. the application of customs rates that were valid under the CEFTA Agreement. But I want to point out one more time. We had first a bilateral agreement which was then in force within CEFTA that Croatia paid, or the Croatian tobacco industry 15% of customs, and our customs rate for exporting our cigarettes to the Croatian market was 38%. Now, under this agreement, if you accept it as it is, this is the worst it can be, the worse it can't be, it can only be better, we'll have, they'll pay 15% to 1600 tons and over 1600 tons will pay 57%. We have total duty-free exports, no quotas, zero customs rates, and that's all true, everything else we can make a story about, but simply these are the reasons, these are the arguments, these are the facts. Could it have been better? Yes, it is. Are we satisfied? We didn't, but the circumstances were such that this was an offer on the table, we could have heroized and said for the next year -- we wouldn't accept anything; we could have with all the consequences of making one such decision, we figured there was still room for the agreement to be adapted, that the agreement would change, that would respect some of our real economic interests, that I didn't say again in these two directions, in that opening part.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24404	The word has a People's MP, Zoran Babic, two minutes right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24405	Thank you, Madam Chairman. A lot of mentioning of something that shouldn't be a topic for parliament and something that isn't a topic of the agenda, but also mentioning the Water polo alliance is disturbing the SNS to run for president of the Kosovo Union of Serbia, and the president of the KSS is one of the richest people in Serbia, the DS President, Mr Dragan Gilas. There we will run, there we will defeat you as we defeated you in Vrbas, as we defeated you in Zajecar, as we defeated you in Zemun, as we defeated you in all of Serbia, and that is the reason for this kind of hatred that is scattered and that is spreading daily in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. However, for the sake of truth, and here, the Assembly speaker is also unfortunately used to say certain things that have nothing to do with the truth, that I don't use a more difficult connotation, so it's announced from here that some people, even from the Assembly, were left without a job and a piece of bread even though it's not true, and we didn't even get an apology for making such untrues, but I would like, on behalf of the SNS Parliament group that I represent, to present the contaminants that are true. In 2012, the level of investment in Serbia was exactly 227.000,000 euros, and in 2012, when by August the government had DS and the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, although most of these 227.000,000 euros were investments brought by the new government. What do we do with that? This year, in 2013, 780,000,000 euros in investment will be realised or realised in Serbia. Are we satisfied with that level? Of course we're not, of course we can do better. (President: Time, two minutes. One more sentence and I'm done. The fact that you boast of 2011 and the level of investment in which you have included your favorite investment and sales of "Maxia" "Deleza" and counted as your investment, in fact Miskovic's sales of companies and what's on your heart, that's more your problem, has nothing to do with truth and reality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24406	The sentence doesn't have to last 45 seconds. Please, if we call upon the respect of the Rules of Procedure to do so ourselves. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, would you like to replicate the minister? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24407	Dear Mr. Ljajic, I absolutely respect all the reasons you've put forward, and I can't respect the arguments presented by the SNS. I would like to see how much exports of Serbian cigarettes have been to the Croatian market, how much traffic we have achieved over the past two, three or four years and vice versa, how much traffic of Croatian cigarettes have been on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It will be the only real, relevant indicators of the validity of this Agreement. You know, some countries can give us huge quotas for exporting flying saucers, but we don't produce flying saucers, not even flying carpets, on which many have flown. Mr. Minister, since we are honored that we have lost in Vrbas, if we are to lose the election by being kidnapped by DS members to take them to the basement and it is announced again as a method of getting all the choices, from the basketball alliance to the Athletic Union, then it is a sad time that you and I live in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24408	I ask the MPs that if they use the right to reply to someone they want to explain, to correct what is wrong and to ask an additional question. There is no replica of general spectrum, so I remind you and also that the replica is a right, exclusively the chairman's right and I am working to give everyone the right to a replica, but to use them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The word has been made by MP Janko Veselinovic, a replica of the presentation of MP Zoran Babic, for two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24409	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, I would simply like to look back on a few false or semi-truths expressed in this statement. The first and main key is the fact that it speaks and compares the level of investment during the previous and current government. The level of investment in Serbia during the previous government, whose backbone was DS, was 10 times higher every year than investment now that the country is running the SNS. Regardless of the situation, the world's biggest economic crisis was at the time, the average investment was about a billion euros. They're much smaller now, and when I say 10 times, I'm also talking about the 200th and some million euros that might eventually be, the majority of the investments agreed in the previous period. Don't joke for 2012, you've practically been dating since the fifth, May, when elections, are scheduled, your ministers who are now in the government or have gone out in the meantime, have run the economy of this country, not to mention Mr Dinkic, Mr Ljajic and everything else. They stayed in the government. They continued to run the government in the coming period. Your inability to get this country out of crisis and bring foreign investors, of course, creates an opportunity for you, or it is necessary to open up a question about the Water polo Alliance, the basketball alliance, but it is an alibi – the policy we talked about, when you have no answer for why you are doing damage to the state by giving one EU member what this previous government would not, you give such answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24410	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24411	I thank you for the information that the global economic crisis was until 2012 and that in 2012 we are fighting in Serbia in May that there is no more crisis and that it was only valid for justification for the government of Mirko Cvetkovic and the crisis no longer exists. Great. So much for the seriousness of the arguments that came after that, anyway, you have to justify it, you did, and that government said that the crisis wouldn't touch us. That government said the crisis was a chance, which you didn't take advantage of. When you talk about these billions of investments, don't mix grandmothers and frogs, don't mix non-compatible, don't mix sales with investments. One is selling companies, selling companies, reducing capital, reducing the number of employees, or increasing the employment rate by four years from 13 to 26.2%, as if such investments were booming in the government of Mirko Cvetkovic, they would likely produce more employees. Where did these huge investments end and people lose their jobs? What are you talking about? What investments are you talking about? Very responsible and very honest we go out and say – it is difficult, we recommend and introduce measures that are not popular, but those that will give sustainability to our society in the next two years and perspective. We won't look at the state of the state of pink glasses. We will not go out, as the previous prime minister said in this parliament -- Serbia has statistically come out of the crisis, but its citizens will not feel it. That's what Mr. Mirko Cvetkovic said. Is that the level of investment you're talking about? About the level of investment where people were left without a job. Where did those investments end? Do not mix the sale of capital, the sale of enterprises and investments, because it is incompatible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24412	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24413	Dear Vice President, I believe that the members of 106 and 107 have been injured. The Rules of Procedure, not by actually reacting to Mr. Babic's first presentation. I believe that Mr Babic seriously injured the dignity of the National Assembly when he announced that the SNS would run for the position of the president of the basketball union of Serbia and I am not joking at all, I am very serious when I say so. I think that's why Mr. Babic hurt Article 45. The Law on the National Assembly that says that the MP is obliged to maintain dignity and the reputation of the National Assembly in his overall work. Our country is based, among other things, on the constitutional principle that political parties cannot exercise direct power. I believe it is a serious violation of dignity to announce that a political party will participate in the election for the president of the basketball union. I have no understanding that he is a political official at the head of this alliance, but if we have turned parliament into the scene of the struggle for the presidency in the sports alliances, then I think it is best that we disband ourselves. If not, then I ask that this session run in a way that will allow us to discuss these laws, and that personal, sports ambitions or unrealized sports dreams remain the private lives of individuals to be discussed outside of this parliament to be discussed or to be discussed, as Mr Babic likes to say, outside this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24414	An intervention in the replica you pointed to would mean that I interpret what Mr. Babic meant by the political party running for president of a sports alliance. I heard what he said, but I think it's his responsibility as a MP, so there's no warning about what anyone's doing in the rule of law. I can agree with you to plead in voting day. There will be two replicas: the People's Messenger Janko Veselinović and the People's Messenger Zoran Babic. People's MPs who want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure can get their word before they do, but let me warn you that the position of member 103 will be strictly applied, which speaks of the responsibility of the chairman when required of the infringement of the Rules of Procedure and when the right to abuse is exercised. The word is made by MP Marko Atlagic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24415	Madam Chairman, even though I've been looking for it for seven minutes, thank you for letting me. I appeal to Article 109, paragraph 3, which says - the reminder is given to the MP who...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24416	People's MP, I warned you a little while ago to look at the conditions under which the chairman is obliged to give his notice. This condition is explicitly recorded in Article 103 and says that the chairman must do so if the MP abuses the right to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The pronunciation of the measure is an exclusive jurisdiction of the chairman and cannot be the subject of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I thank you. The word is made by MP Igor Becic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24417	I'm reporting under Articles 104 and 107. One speaker hardly misused the dignity of the National Assembly. It's clear to me that the actor is reporting, stealing from the Vrbas election, also trying to single out the incident where he is... (Chairman: National MP, please... Is it strange that the richest man in Belgrade and Serbia comes at 21.00 p.m. and makes incidents...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24418	National MP, you must listen to the chairman when he warns you of the right to use the word on the basis of Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 103... (Igor Becic, from place:... and that Mr. Gilas and Mr. Elezovic arrive at 21.00 p.m. on Saturday and in pre-election silence and that they cause incidents and then accuse some other parties... People's MP, you must listen to the chairman. Igor Becic, from the scene, you listen to me. You've been breaking that place you've been sitting for years. The People's Parliament, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, can be done by the chairman of whom you address... (Igor Becic, from the scene: it is wrong for you to mention Gilas, but let me say what I have. I thank you for calling me Mr. Chairman, but this is a minor violation of the reputation of the National Assembly. National MP Aleksandar Radojevic has a word, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24419	Madam Chairman, I thank you, because I have long since asked for a word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I thank you for the more interventions you have had during the presentation of the previous speaker who did this, but one of those lies he has said you have not responded and I must point to that. It was that a fellow MP said that we allowed Croatia to make money because CEFTA respects the agreement unilaterally, that is, our tobacco producers pay the customs fee 38% and they are 15%. To remind you, the Nis tobacco industry has repeatedly reacted and asked the previous government to enable it to perform equally on the Croatian market, as they have on our market. At a press conference, a journalist, when it was a finding on the subject that the agreement was respected unilaterally, or by Serbia, but not by Croatia, Mr Tadic, the then president of Serbia, said – yes, we will respect it unilaterally because we are well educated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24420	You have failed to indicate what is involved in the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chairman. The MP you spoke of as an object of injury has been warned twice to stick to the subject of the agenda and to take care of the reputation of the National Assembly, which I ask all the MPs. (Marco Atlagic, from the post: Stick to the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP, please do not throw away, which is also the reason for speaking out in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm warning you. I warn you, the measure I must express is written in the same Rules of Procedure that you call upon. We'll keep working on the agenda. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will talk about the Law on the Protection of Competition, that is, amendments and additions to the law. My colleagues, unfortunately, did not understand that when it comes to amendments and amendments, MPs have the right to speak about what the law does not contain. It is true that the law does not contain protection, i.e. the protection of domestic cigarette manufacturers. In part, I agree with the need to protect against unfair competition by domestic producers. There are MPs here from 2000, and they know very well that what is said, that at the time the Government of the Republic of Serbia really did protect domestic cigarette manufacturers, but it was missed to prove that this was an explicit request, almost to campaign for the protection of our domestic cigarette manufacturers from Croatian cigarettes, i.e. "Ronhill" cigarettes, and there were attempts to present them through "Ronville" as domestic cigarettes, etc. I agree even with the opposition that it is necessary to protect domestic producers in the store, but we also need to know that we have an inherited condition. The CEFTA agreement, which envisioned 38% customs rate for our cigarettes in Croatia and their 15% on our market, was not signed by anyone on this side. It is obvious that this agreement was signed in 2008, as far as I know and if it contains some shortcomings, it is the fault of those who have signed such a kind of agreement. As for this 1,600-ton contingent, which can affect competition, I ask the minister to listen carefully, as far as I understand the EU measure, it is not Croatia's measure, but the European Commission's measure and 1,600 tonnes, which pay 15% instead of 57 customs, and the difference is 7-8m euros, but at 10 years it is about 70 to 80m euros. It is also true that we have a rate towards Croatia zero, but they have other extra customs measures, so the TDR owns all the trading facilities, so they don't let our cigarettes into the store. Otherwise, as far as regulations are concerned, customs is exactly zero and this should be clarified in the talks with Croatia, whether their TDR-owned trade chains should, or must allow our cigarettes to enter there. This contingent, what I propose, is for the sublaw government to distribute not only to Croatia, but to all the producers, or importers of cigarettes that participated in our market, without corruption, to do so on average how much these producers have traded on our market so far. I think that would be the best measure, not to violate relations with the European Commission, and to respect that quota that is not Croatia, but the quota that the EU wants to place on our market by 15 per cent, and everything else will be at a 57% customs rate. By bringing Croatia into the EU, it is distributed to all producers operating in our market. So, under these conditions, 1,600 tonnes can also enter "Philip Morris" and "BAT" etc., so that my advice to our government, the resolute ministry, is to regulate by means of a sublegal act that, based on current participations in our market, it is to be our safeguard measure, and to respect the European Commission's decision. I think that would be good. I am re-absorbing that the situation is due to those who signed the SAA and the CEFTA agreement, and it wasn't this government, especially not the SNS involved. I also want to say what is not covered by this law, which is a protection against unfair competition that cannot be prescribed by the gray market. This is the worst kind of unfair competition, which at significantly lower prices, due to tax avoidance, excise, etc., competes with the legal economy and thus the state, or budget, loses huge money, and participants in trade in our market get the unfair competition that is worst for them. Also, there are those in the gray market that are of urgency, small retailers, but there are in the gray part of the economy and those who distribute large quantities of goods and compete with those who pay all taxes and contributions. That's not what this law covers. Also, the law does not cover what has already happened, which is that all Balkan countries have become second-class and third-rate colonies, that a large country that has had a large market and a large economy that has satisfied that market with the help of various foreign factors in the 1990s has been broken into several small countries and the market has largely been taken over. The economy, i.e. business activity fell 50%, and we all became markets in one way or another, and we lost economic activity in these depreciated markets, i.e. parts of the former SFRY, so it is very difficult to protect ourselves from various types of unfair competitions. I will mention that due to foreign banks, foreign trade chains, foreign goods are the participation of two-thirds of the VAT for foreign goods, and only one-third is on domestic goods. We didn't compensate for that with exports. Our economic activity is dropping. Trade, what needs to coronate some of our production, that's not happening. Those are the problems we have. Today, when you go to Idea, of course you'll find only Diamond, because in addition to everything that's happened, foreign companies, what you call foreign investments, mainly bought companies that had a monopoly position here, which had a market, buyers, which brought profits, cigarettes factories, cement plants, beer factories, etc., telecommunications. These are foreign investments that in some ways increase our trade deficit. And today when you walk into a foreign trade chain, into a house of their own, it's like you went abroad. All those incomes that they earn through foreign banks turn into foreign exchanges, etc. I also advise this government, despite the fact that this law is good, I will vote for it, to take more care to raise our business activity to a higher level, to keep our goods on the domestic market without violating any regulations, and I have already proposed one measure. I've allowed myself to suggest how to regulate this cigarette crisis. I think the law is good. I'm voting for this. I agree that this cigarette thing isn't good, but there's a way to regulate it. I agree with that, let's say, when you get to that side of the trade chain you can hardly buy anything from domestic goods, it's almost like you went shopping abroad. I think it's time for the government to commit itself to increasing domestic production and to make through trade some social product that we will share together and that will benefit all residents, and above all those poorest workers, peasants and others. Speaking of peasants, I also ask the Minister to use future stock reserves, unlike the previous period, to avoid being unfair to farmers before harvesting, etc., to use it exclusively to maintain market stability and the stability of the price in harvesting and harvesting of corn, or in harvesting wheat, so that the Government, unlike previous governments, is not on the part of processors, but also on the side of primary producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24422	Eight minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word is made by MP Ivan Andric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24423	Article 107, destruction of dignity. We cannot accept this political thesis that what was negotiated in the SAA is wrong for such a bad deal. I think it's very important that we accept this...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24424	People's MP, please tell me that if it's a matter of injury to the Rules of Procedure, you can tell me where I am and how I hurt the Rules of Procedure. If you want a replica, you can get the right to a replica, and then within two minutes, you can tell the Minister whatever you want, as I have offered to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, because I find the abuse of the Rules of Procedure unnecessary. You have the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24425	So it's not possible to accept that thesis without political consideration. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement was formulated by the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Exactly what the minister said was that the issues of the production and export of cigarettes are one of the key problems of the agreement. It is also true that cigarette manufacturers, and that is very important, have warned in the past year about the situation around so-called. Modifications of the SAA. I remind you that the Serbian Parliament, its Committee on European Integration, held a meeting from the end of March, i.e. in early April with representatives of all cigarette manufacturers. It was a theme back then in that moment. It's the end of October today, and I don't feel like anything more important has changed in that. There's a lot of confusion. We learned about the news yesterday through Twitter. I can agree that the direct consequence is that the minister said that the loss was different in customs, but is there more losses? Whether the quota applies to all cigarette manufacturers. Will the import quota mean that there was a decrease in production in Serbia? Will other major producers start importing cigarettes and thereby directly damage domestic tobacco growers and factory employees? What number of people are talking about and why this is so important I'm going to try to explain it to you. Directly employed only in factories of about two thousand people, and indirectly in the tobacco chain, more than 130,000 workers. The issue of budgeting tobacco products is about 14% of the total budget, which is beyond the EU average. About 3% of gross domestic products are tobacco producers. My question is why do we not have an official view of the Government of what has been accepted by the European Commission? Is it true that you are no longer in charge, but the Minister of Agriculture, and why is that, too, would you like to get an explanation? The third question is, what is the text of the agreement that we have agreed with the European Commission? (President: Time. ) The fourth, fifth and sixth question is whether it will decrease by how much cigarette production in Serbia and what did Serbia get in return? This issue is so much more important that we are at the beginning of the negotiations. If this points to the fact that the government is unable to conduct negotiations, then in the time ahead, where many of these decisions will be made, we have to think today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24426	Thank you. I said and now for the third time I repeat that replicas are a means of clarifying the views of this kind, and I ask you to stick to the time of the replica of two minutes as I have offered both to the presidents of the groups and to anyone who considered it necessary to clarify what the minister had already said. The word has Minister Ljajic, so the right to the replica of MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24427	I apologize for repeating myself, but I have some things to point out, because Mr. Andric wasn't here this morning when I answered similar questions from MP Dejan Michael. For a year it has been negotiated precisely on this issue and, as I said this morning, we have agreed 86 tariff lines in total according to the modality that has been in force, lessover, for all CEFTA member states. We have singled out two products as strategically important for us – cigarettes and sugar, which we are interested in increasing the quota from the current 180 thousand tonnes. The negotiations, as they were during the last government, were no changes, led by State Secretary at the agriculture ministry, Mr. Golubovic. The deputy head of the negotiating team was Mrs. Bojana Todorovic of the Ministry of Trade and there were no changes. So we haven't made a decision. A meeting was held Monday by the EU's co-ordination body consisting of the majority of ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and it is agreed that a letter should be sent to the European Commission saying that the modals applicable to other products are accepted, but that we are ready to continue the talks on the practical implementation of the decision. What was our position, we talked to representatives of the tobacco industry this year. First of all, there's been an attempt to reduce this quota by 1600, and that's the average of the last three years. Up until now, 1500 tonnes of cigarettes have been imported mainly from Croatia by June. What does that mean? If they took this measure, it means that by the end of the year another 100 tonnes could be imported at this rate of 15%. I understand and no one is happy about taking such a decision if it is accepted in this form. Nobody's happy and nobody can defend this and say this – this is great, this is ideal. The only question is what was the alternative. Secondly, let's talk about some real numbers. There was going to be a flood of the tobacco industry, and I'm telling you that 1,500 tons has already been imported, because they've calculated that we're not going to reach this deal, and we haven't reached an agreement for the reason I've been talking about it. Finally, the European Commission has made it very clear – if there is no movement, there is nothing more to talk about, let us know if you are ready to continue the talks, and that again, from the beginning, we are negotiating everything, there is no point. So we sent this memo that we are ready to continue our talks, to accept this modeality, but we want to agree on some practical things in the implementation of this modality. Something was said by Ambassador Marijan Risticevic. It'll be the subject of these conversations. The second subject of the conversation is that outside the customs barrier. I think MP Srdjan Milivojevic mentioned this, how much did we export to Croatia? Nothing. One truck, 25 tonnes due to a high customs rate of 38% and because of the large extracurrency barriers, restrictions and obstructions that the tobacco industry had on the Croatian market. The advantage of what is now a customs rate of zero, without any quotas and advantage of this solution is that we are entering the EU model of competition protection, not Croatia, and that we will now be able to complain somewhere. There is a ruling here by the Croatian court that the tobacco industry "Rovinj" has a dominant position and no one has considered it. At least now we'll be able to look for some form of protection. So we're not happy, we're not agreed yet, but there's no great chance of changing this dramatically, and that's also a fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24428	National MP Zoran Babic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24429	Mr. Ljajic, I am grateful for your comprehensive response. I hope that all the dilemmas are removed, at least when this challenge lies ahead of our society and our country, when cigarettes and CEFTA and all these problems and what alternatives we have if we refuse anything. If we are to talk and open such topics, I would also like to open the topic that, under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, Serbia has received certain quotas for exports. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed in 2008. It seems to me that at the first moment, 9900 tonnes of bif could have been exported annually because as a state, we exported no more than 2200 to 2700, that those quotas were reduced by 1000 tonnes, that in 2012 exports from Serbia were less than 1000 tonnes, in 2011 something similar. What do we do with that? We can't just talk about things that are current, alarming the public with the facts, not the confirmed things, and something we haven't mentioned in four years. What about the untapped chances of that agreement that was signed? What about that responsibility? If we mention it, you say - we're going back in time, and if we don't mention it, we're not going to learn anything. I think there are 250 reasonable people sitting here who will point to chances, opportunities, and not only when matches are lit to say -- here, worse Belgrade, worse country. Let's focus once on the odds, on opportunities.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24430	Thank you. National MP Ivan Andric, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24431	Mr. Representative of the ruling coalition, this isn't about CEFTA or cigarettes or public alerts. It's about citizens working in the Serbian industry. I don't know if you can understand that. Let the CEFTA and that, 130,000 people who work in the private industry, from tobacco growers to those who drive, to those who sit in traffic and sell that tobacco will be damaged. What we're warning you about, it's not an alarming public, unless by alarming you mean what we think this government has done in a very unsuccessful way and in a bad way brought about those negotiations. We cannot accept any previous situation, nor are we now seeking an alternative from us. Now there's nothing left. It's over. What is our question is, this is one warning that this situation must not be repeated, because negotiations and tens of thousands of people depend on something that the government will do during a period that I hope will come in December. Let him come in January, it'll be hundreds of decisions like this. We learned about this decision yesterday via Twitter from the correspondent RTS from Brussels. We are MPs dealing with European integration. Do you understand how bad that is? We've asked that a hundred times what's going on with it. And today we still don't have the essential answer to what happened? Is it a quota for all EU countries and will this lead to a decrease in production? That's what you tell people who need that tobacco to plant, that they know they don't plant it, that you don't say it in January -- now it's too late.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24432	Thank you. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24433	The quota is of course for all EU countries, these 1600 tonnes, not only for Croatian cigarettes, because it is synonym here that all 1600 tonnes are for the tobacco industry "Rovinj". Their participation in our market, I said this morning, is 8% total. Whether it's 8% now or less, it can't be predicted, as we can't predict whether it will affect domestic producers to reduce production. What they pointed out to us, probably to you in those conversations, is that they are more affected by the gray or black tobacco market than by this decision, whatever it is, even this most unfavourable one. It's a big problem and yesterday we talked to them, they had certain requirements, and we'll see what we can finally do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24434	National MP Ivan Andric and Janko Veselinovic were reported with a request for replicas. So, another round and we end the topic through the replicas of CEFT and the contracts that governments make. National MP Ivan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24435	To make it clear, I know there's been confusion and no one knows what the deal is. That's why my question or my request to the government to deliver exactly what was agreed, or what was accepted. Doubtful of what the content of this acceptance or that response is, it leads us to several facts. First, the European Commission announced about 10 o'clock last night, about 22.00 hours as the way the European Commission said it was done to make the report we are supposed to get more positive today. If that's the price, it's a scandal. We can't go to the EU like that, we simply have to go to the EU so that it can benefit all of us. The reasons objective, of course, exist and we're not the crazy ones who, I don't know what they're expecting. But if it is true that the plan is to import 1600 tonnes annually from Croatia, imports from the EU, and that Croatia has only 8% of what its market share is currently, will Croatia be satisfied with that? Did we solve the problem? That's why these negotiations are. This is just the beginning, and that's why it's important to do today a point from which we won't repeat these mistakes. Include society in what you're doing. Share your responsibility. It's not enough to say or forget it anymore. That's the inherited condition. Yes, it is. I agree with you. We were against it even then, but it's not a solution for these people who live on it. We in this process that is before us only together can lead to the best results for Serbia. That the Assembly finds out through Twitter at 11pm that the government has accepted something, so it's a scandal. We stand here for you every day. We have a Committee on European Integration, it has ten sessions a week, two a day. Ask, maybe we can help. Maybe we can influence. We see that the government has been exposed to pressures that are not just conventional. We see it very well. We're the only ones in line who can achieve the best results. Don't look at this as a struggle of hairs and opposition, because we'll lose everyone in it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24436	Minister Rasim Ljajic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24437	Just to clarify that there was no intention of hiding anything here. On Monday, there was a meeting of the co-ordination body for joining the EU. The meeting agreed to send this letter to the European Commission. A letter was sent to the European Commission yesterday and was published on Twitter last night. The letter says that Serbia is ready to continue talks based on the modality applicable to other tariff lines. The final protocol, the text of the protocol must be signed and must come to this Parliament for ratification. So, if someone wanted to hide something, they couldn't hide it or that was their intention. Absolutely wasn't the intention. What will be Croatia's share now, we cannot define. I'm just telling you what's happened so far, 8% participation. Whether it will now be less or more regulated by the market. That's the whole truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24438	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24439	Dear Chairman, you've recently given me a word for the replica, so I've been kind of forgotten. I will refer to one part and another of Mr. Babic's exposure. First of all, what the minister is talking about. Generally, we ministers, or Vice-President, have a problem with the inaccessibility of information that exists in the government and seems nowhere else, or with individual ministers and nowhere else. We asked for information a few days ago what kind of contract did you sign with Etihad? We were accused of pushing the only investor from Serbia. Now it turns out that your minister won't sign something that's against the law. It is similar with the problems of this latest cigarette problem and the import of these cigarettes from Croatia. The head of the SNS Group invites us not to light a fire. We have not reported in the previous days that Serbia is ill, that Serbia has bankrupted. True, this expression that Serbia is sick I would never use because the sick can only be a man, not a state, unless we use the words of Louis XIV who spoke - the state, it's me. We can't escape the fact that "UNCTAD Only then explain to me that in four years' time prosperity, the booming of unemployment investments from 13 jumped to 26% and how hundreds of thousands of people in Serbia lost their jobs in these massive investments? Either they weren't there or they ended up the wrong way if they did, because when you add up unemployment and you add up those investments that you brag about or are put in private pockets and ended up where you shouldn't or shouldn't have, because people in Serbia are unemployed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24440	Two minutes. Thank you. In accordance with Article 27, I am obliged to protect the reputation of the National Assembly and to remove any doubt and delusion that the constitutional function of the MPs and the application of the Law on Free Access to Information is mixed. The MP shall have the constitutional obligation and the right to control the work of the executive authority. The executive authority is required to be subject to control. It is the Constitution of the Law on the National Assembly. I ask you to choose metaphors more carefully, because the law on the availability of information has been passed in this assembly, and in case anyone in Serbia is reported by an information trustee. People's MPs have a completely different constitutional role and legal position than those who have the right to use the law on the availability of information. I have no doubt that the metaphor has been said, but it has been said, and it is my duty to put the position and role of MPs out of question. National MP Janko Veselinovic is looking for a replica. Please, let's get back to the agenda. National MP Radoslav Milovanovic, followed by MP Zoran Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24441	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I will at the beginning of my presentation just point to some of the lies that have been made. Short, so I don't get a warning. The CEFTA agreement was signed on 19 December 2006 and if something is wrong there is no DS responsibility. The other thing is I can't listen anymore in the Assembly, and these are attacks on the DS. I'm a proud member of the DS, and I can't believe that this government was so bad that you too, Mr. Ljajic, were headed by an important Council for Co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It wouldn't have come to the Brussels Agreement if it hadn't been for you and now it's your fault and the DS and all that previous government, and now they're with you in the coalition, that second part that's much better, has changed and it's working so much better. I'll be back on the agenda. The government's first economic measures are 15 months after the formation of the new government, and the first effects are expected after several years. That's really unserious. The law on the protection of competition, which I will deal with now, is the most important law in this package. I will remind citizens that the first modern law against monopolies, the famous 1890 Sherman law, and the accompanying corporate bureau was founded in 1903, so the US experience in the fight to protect the market is undoubtedly large and valuable, of course, and the experience of countries that have entered the EU and the countries of Southeast Europe. The law should pre-warn the abuse of the monopoly market, set criteria for the merger of enterprises so that there are no new monopolys in their fusion. Is there a monopoly in Serbia? My opinion is that the state creates monopolies with its own measures, more specifically, and brings individual economic entities into an unequal position. Now I'm going to say why. In Serbia, there is a financial monopoly of banks, and this is not the case with the Competition Protection Commission. The interest rates, respected Serbian citizens, ranged from 20% to 24% for credits for economic operators, or for citizens. The Democratic Party has proposed a law on interest limits. Unfortunately, the law was reluctant to come to the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Another thing that is not popular to say in Serbia, but I will say it because I come from a small place where there are 800 private entrepreneurs, Kučeva, there are 5,000 in Braničev County, in every village we have Chinese shops. Do the inspection bodies control the work of these shops? What are workers' salaries, what are the conditions in which they work, what is the quality of the goods, whether fiscal accounts are issued, whether it's a competitive market, if in my place there's some buty or something else that can be opened while these shops function as they function and what agreement is signed and why is this tolerated? This is important because somewhere the Chinese are mentioned about the construction of this channel from the Danube to the Aegean, so let's just define it. The country of Serbia currently characterised by over-indebtedness, poverty, unemployment and corruption, what is it to change? How to prevent a monopoly of public enterprises? We almost had the Law on Public Enterprises first, and then the Law on Public Property. We've allowed the directors of public enterprises to extend the time limit for a year to enter the property. Why isn't that deadline allowed for private entrepreneurs? There are 200,000 in Serbia, and only 104 are believed to be liquid. How will it be equal to individual companies when some foreign investors get 10,000 euros per worker and ours can get up to 1,500 to 1,500 euros from the National Employment Service? The Minister of Business announces the loan ban of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. If someone has abused credit, is that why other economic operators can't get favourable loans from the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia? How will my eastern Serbia develop economy? How do you solve the issue of unemployment in a situation like this if there are a large number of employees in the state administration? The measures proposed by the government will hit professors, doctors, one layer of people and put them in an unequal position compared to other people. We have seen that people here are divided into Democrats who are responsible for everyone and everyone else, the rich and the poor. What's the message when private entrepreneurs are arrested? I don't mean Miskovic. I'm thinking of someone else. What kind of business environment is that, and who's going to come here when tax laws change every three months, when VAT increases from 8 to 20%? How are we going to do e-commerce when the cost of the computer increases and how are these small companies that have one employee going to be competitive? Our entities dealing with trade under all these criteria are not monopolies unlike other countries. I'm going to mention another important business activity, bakery, and how many inspection bodies are, and some are under your jurisdiction, inconsistencies and inconsistencies of real competition, and that's where the monopoly is. In some bakeries, workers work in almost cosmonaut suits, respecting Hasap standard. Besides them, there are bakers who don't respect anything. Of course it's cheaper. These first ones I mentioned met all the standards are still exposed to inspection controls because they're supposed to be doing well, but what about these others? The price of the certificate for Hasap was high. There was talk of it at all the bells. Today it is not applied everywhere and it is at every turn and it is not difficult to look at and determine. What are the shortcomings, according to DS, of the proposed measures? The law stipulates that the commission can keep funds from penalties even if the state had to after court decisions in the second degree to recover them from the budget. The Commission's practice is generally bad, because a large number of its decisions have fallen to the courts. Secondly, in order to comply with EU rules, the Commission is projected to settle with suspected legal persons, which is almost unacceptable for the current situation in Serbia. What's another problem for the commission, which is that the commission has no jurisdiction for the financial sector. When you give someone discretionary rights, and I'm always suspicious of it, and that's true in court practice. As soon as one law is not defined to the end, and every law is connected to another law, then it becomes a problem. Other major problems are public mediators, direct contracts, governments that threaten equality on the market. What's the proposal, what's the DS plan? Giving up unreal and unreal projects, such as this Danube channel – the Aegean Sea, these subsidies for the Railways, further increase in debts. A five-year agrarian budget should be established, invested in the energy sector and education, in the development of private entrepreneurship. The question is how many investors will come to Serbia. If this little business contractor stops working, we'll be in big trouble. We have 70,000 business owners. What are their subsidies? Is that a state of sight, etc? We have a big trade chain in Serbia, DIS. Did anyone ask themselves, "Idea" came, others came, should these people be helped to get into a market outside Serbia? They have 5,000 employees. In Serbia, the concentration rate is lower, compared to developed Western countries. The Slovenians had that problem. I repeat, what is my problem is the Commission's authority, and it is this state that is created in society and that does not lead Serbia into a line of countries that are potential for investors. This situation, which criticises a large opposition party, is insulting, in which its members are arrested and in which bad messages are sent to business entrepreneurs and, unfortunately, the bankruptcy manager of the economy, I do not see clear measures and I think it is time for the economy to return to the Assembly and to discuss this and how it is discussed. I appreciate what you've been doing in the past, especially in co-operation with The Hague tribunal, but I think you should tell your colleagues that measures are not being taken at press conferences, but here, in a debate, in a public debate, because it's important for our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24442	Ten minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The People's Messenger Zoran Antic has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24443	Can I just ask you for time to share with my colleague? (President: The SNS parliamentary group is available for 22 minutes and 30 seconds. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the fact is that today, I would say, we are not all satisfied with the market situation, that there are a lot of monopolies on the market, that there is a lot of unfair competition on the market, that there are dominant positions of unwanted concentrations present, and that rarely any of us can be satisfied with the situation on the market. Many of the fellow MPs have talked a lot about it, a lot about these anomalies that are present and which are necessary to remove and I think that we are all in agreement on this side, that in this sense a number of other laws should be passed and all that is seen as a problem should be solved in some foreseeable period. But, when it comes to these four laws that solve the actual four areas, I mean two amendments and additions to the law and to the export and import law of double-use goods and the law on real estate traffic, I think these four laws still have the confidence of most MPs at the moment. I don't think there are too many criticisms and that the fact that the government, when it comes to these four areas, recognized all the problems that exist in these areas, but was also forced to apply the European directives that change over time and which recognise increasingly better and better solutions, when it comes to the regulation of the market, and that they are incorporated into all these laws, so I guess that's one of the biggest reasons why there was no more serious criticism when it comes to these laws. The Law on Electronic Trade and the Law on the Protection of Competition, which appears before us as amendments and additions to the law so far, we have had in some future and the fact that these areas are quite developing, at least when it comes to electronic trade, that it is necessary to adapt to new legal solutions and market needs and that, in that sense, everything offered to these laws, as far as legal protection and the fullness of the contract is concerned, deserves a positive assessment and deserves support from MPs of the National Assembly. So, in the law itself, we have much more precise norms than we've had so far, we have to adapt to the European directives that are daily, I would say, or that we have to follow and have, in some way, and agreeing, what the legislator recognized as a compliance with the existing laws, above all, of the Consumer Protection Act. It was necessary to do and that's what's good in this law. As far as the Competition Protection Act is concerned, in this sense I think a more serious step has been made in relation to the procedures we have had so far, in the sense that they are fully or largely in line with the procedures in force in the EU. I am counting on this alignment to be in the next period, until we become an equal member, which is perfectly normal, given the market situation and the position of our country. The fact is that it is better than the dominant position has been defined so far, that the extended deadlines, above all when it comes to the lawsuits, are adapted to European directives and this law, I would say, which is ahead of us, are classified in laws that can get the support of the vast majority of MPs. These other two laws, one is specific, we've had them so far, in a way, since 2005, when it comes to dual-purpose goods. It is a law that has passed practice, a need, that we are not lagging behind in an area that has already been defined by the EU, that we do not eventually come into the situation that the credibility of the state, because of the bad regulations, is not threatened and that the country's international position is further strengthened, since all the international agreements we have signed and signed in the coming period are also applied in this area, but that we will also have to fully implement in the future. For citizens, this real estate law and the lease of real estate may be the most important thing. It's a new legal solution that, no doubt, I think we can all agree on, should have come to the agenda quite early. The fact is, as some colleagues say, that the real estate market and the volume of real estate and sales have been significantly lower in the last few years compared to 2006 and 2007, but there is no reason why this area is not being regulated either. What we have received as some information in the light of this law still puts us in a position that the effects this law can have can be characterized as very important to the budget itself. I'd say this is one of the perhaps rare laws of interest to both buyers and sellers and the state itself. Customers, of course, have much more legal certainty than they have so far, thanks to this law that they have a number of new institutes that guarantee that the purchased property will not be problematic. The fact is that one serious step has also been made by the previous government, there is no need to hide it, by the fact that an electronic database has been created that has made it impossible for one apartment to be sold multiple times, but no doubt there was plenty of room for manipulation, for abuses and for an unquality work of agencies, which are estimated to have over 2,000. So I'm counting on this law to fully define this market and it will mean one great security for all citizens, because rarely any of us find themselves in a situation where they don't buy or sell real estate during life. The statements are high and the risks are high, so, therefore, to arrange this area by law was, I would say, and so far the responsibility of previous governments, but here is the praise for this government, it has come into a situation to finally settle that area. As for the agencies that appear on the market, I think that there is a very important and their interest, in the sense that unfair competition is removed. So far, we have had the fact that many agencies have not done this work in one way and that they have compromised perhaps those agencies that have tried to comply with all the standards, both domestic and international. So, I recognize their interest through the proposal of this law, to also reduce the number of agencies, but also to get those agencies that, with respect for all standards, respect for their customers, with respect for their obligations to the state, which is also important, I mean the tax obligations that will be significantly higher in scope after this law, contribute to the common interest of the state and citizens when it comes to the area of real estate. I think it's important to mention a few institutes. One of them needs professional preparation in any case. It's something we've never had in this area before. It is therefore also the passing of an expert examination by those who will be established by these real estate agencies in the future, as well as the obligation to keep documentation. It has often happened that the documentation is not complete and that if the buyer is deceived, he cannot go the right way later, through some court dispute to provide real protection. Also, intermediation contracts and the fact that this law defines these contracts themselves, which these contracts must contain as important as they affect the safety of the buyer. The responsibility of real estate intermediaries has also been defined. That has never been so far, and that's how important it is for every buyer. We will also have a register of intermediaries that we will be able to access online and there will be no confusion about who is who in one real, more professional and legal way can do a service for future customers. I said, 2,000 businesses are not small, and 3,000 employees in this area are also not small. So it's this area that matters. The fact that, according to the agencies themselves, traffic is being carried out at a level of about two to three billion euros certainly points to the importance of this law. In the case of unpaid taxes, which is difficult to determine at this point, it is assumed to range from some 600 million to close to two billion dinars. This is also how important a point at a time when every dinar is important for this country and when we are expected and future fiscal consolidation with which we have already begun the measures that we have taken during the previous and in the current year. As far as all these laws are concerned, I think they deserve the support of all MPs and, as I said, allow for the regulation of the market, enable better procedures, introduce rules in the behaviour of all actors in those markets and in any case mean harmonisation with EU legislation. I suppose, as far as we're concerned from the Serbian Progressive Party, that's not an instruction, that we will get for these laws the support of the vast majority of MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24444	It was used 11 minutes and 55 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. It's available for 11 minutes and 30 seconds. The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. The parliamentary group is available for 19 minutes and 40 seconds. After him is the MP Iren Aleksic, who was last registered on the list of MPs. Here you go, Mr. Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24445	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Vice President, I also welcome your associates, some of them were my fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have very different laws on the agenda, but the truth is, as we said last week from the DS, that these laws seem to treat only epiphenomenes, trying to regulate domains where there is no economic activity, such as real estate traffic, or where the situation is much more difficult every day, whether it's trade or our dedicated industry. However, I must start with what is news day, and the news of the day is, and she will be with us for a long time, that this government is starting negotiations with the EU capitulation, i.e. at an important step where it was possible to make a profit, because on our side it was right, i.e. Internationally sanctioned and international agreements such as CEFT or the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Unequivocally under great pressure, but we have had such pressure, the government has caved in and accepted that Croatian cigarettes continue to be imported under CEF conditions, not under conditions which are what I apply to the EU, and that in return we hear a vice president who says we don't know if we're going to get anything. He even said, and I am grateful for his honesty, he said – here we are now in the worst position possible. That's true. With this method of negotiation from November of last year to October of this year, thank you for confessing, you've put us in the worst position possible. We hope, because DS, of course, wants Serbia in the EU, but we want to take advantage of any benefits that it can provide for us. That's why I repeat - our point is that you didn't have to decide today and write that letter without getting anything back. So what if we had one negative sentence in the report? Were we not witnesses, and we were the source of this information, that Croatia almost every year had in its EU accession report a sentence that spoke uglyly about their treatment of our cigarette manufacturers and their violation of the CEFT provisions? Yes, Mr. Vice President, the fact is they didn't even respect the decisions of their own anti-monopoly committee. Did it bother them to win another victory today? Dear People's MPs and citizens of Serbia, let me show you how the dynamics of our region are going. On October 10th, the Croatian government decided to enter the final round of privatisation of Croatia Insurance? ‘Adris’, i.e. ‘Holding’, which holds both ‘TDR’ and ‘PCD’. Who were they eliminating? Three-headed. What reasons? Let them talk about it. What are the conditions given by “Adris ”? They are weaker than the Poles as regards the price for shares of 43% of packages, but they are more significant in the domain of capitalization. How much are they offering for the recapitalisation? Just as much as this decision has provided them today – about hundreds of millions of euros. We have just assured them that, and here you can see that Croatia is leading its policy, the Croatian firm, which sees that the tobacco industry is on the extremity, gradually transferring these funds, taking advantage of all the opportunities and benefits and investing in something that is, of course, national and how important, which is the insurance sector. I didn't say today, because we have no right to do so, nor should we be running things, nothing ugly, but a great compliment to Croatia. Just so I'm not in this room when those who run the Danube Insurance put us in an extra position and when we get to the sale of our insurance leader better. Come on, guess who's gonna show up as the most potential buyer for our insurance company? That's why I'm talking to the regime today, the atmosphere of civil war, the battle against anyone who drives in our country, and what a huge price it is, we see it today. There are no more important companies and businesses in Serbia from a domain of agrarian business that is not under police siege or under the siege of various checks. Do you think our neighbours in Croatia or Hungary behave that way? If someone has broken something they have to answer under the law to pay the fine, but they don't think they're destroying all their potentials and simply serving the market on a tray. That's what's important, Mr. Vice President, as I have just appealed to you not to accept the negotiating framework, you can't come back here and congratulatingly, personally and all of the DS will welcome you, to show that you've got a little more than a thousand tons of extra sugar export quotas. You know, you said it yourself this morning, we have to get at least 34,000 tons, because that's what we exported to Croatia anyway. It was this gray zone they used because they had a quota that was more favourable than ours. That's what we expect of you. Please don't come back to us before that. You have our support for that. You haven't said one more thing, and those are relations in the region. We're not the only ones here in the negotiations. These are the same negotiations the EU has with both BiH and all other CEFTA members. Where was the common front then to defend community. You even said most of them agreed to what we didn't agree to. It's a real relationship in which direction and who has support at this point in our region. Second thing, Mr. Vice President, I'm talking about the Competition Protection Act now. Now that we've drawn some of that dynamic, you won't deny it in any way if I tell you it's at this point, there are colleagues from the Competition Protection Commission, that the biggest item at this point is close to deciding whether Croatia's Agrokor can connect with the future Croatian Mercator. Therefore, I ask you not to have any further discussions tomorrow to accept the DS amendment and not to tell us that it is an EU principle. Yes, but we have not yet entered it, and there is no reason to copy fully some elements of the directive that have not yet come to the EU's agenda, which is to allow the possible "Agrokor" to come out with its offer and say this – we are offering you this, that you give us approval to join the biggest market in the Balkans, which is Serbian. Then another major 30% rival appears and my DS counterpart is talking about the DIS, and there are other trade-related Serbian chains. Maybe it's not the smartest thing for us right now. I'm not in charge of an independent competition commission here, but the truth is, if 12 out of 16 of their essential decisions are down in court that this is not the moment. Given the very sensitive decisions that await us and that will and will have an effect on the future of Serbian agriculture and generally our agrobusiness, that they can agree behind closed doors without any other way to discuss it. Please, Vice President, it'll be good for you, too. Accept our amendment and do not yet give too much authority without any control of anyone, the commission when it is due to decide on the structure of the future very important sectors of our economy. Vice President, please accept our amendment. Yes, as far as the commission's financials are concerned. You said during your previous presentation, i.e. when you represent in principle that it's not a good thing that there's a commission when it's wrong, it has to return the principal of the fine she's charged, and it has to pay interest. Come on, nice to get that interest out of the budget. Then where's the additional incentive for the commission to decide right? Let me give you an idea. It was a problem for the commission when she wasn't in her budget and she had to pay and if she didn't pay for her functioning. We're not even informed. We know how it goes. We've proposed this law. Let it be a budget transfer, but it must be known in the budget division of the commission what its impact is. She can't transfer the burden of her mistakes to the general budget. Imagine what it would be like for every organ to do business like that. Come on, all that's good for us, that means these compensations and other things that go, and then let's go all the wrongs in the common penitentiary. It's the core of our amendment. It's a little more than technique. These are incentives for the commission to watch how it decides and works in accordance with the law. I must tell you that we are sorry that you did not propose any changes, so we were not able to propose amendments in the domain that would allow the Commission for Competition Protection to expand to the financial sector as well. The Democratic Party has proposed appropriate legal solutions. We would like other political parties present to support it, because they are in the interest of our citizens, and in no way will it endanger the functioning of our financial sector. I repeat, when the EU, i.e. The Commission punishes the banks because they have anti-monopoly behavior and I don't know if you followed it, every five, six years, the penalties of the Austrian bank of another bank. The sector is subject to agreements especially in the area of tariffs, in the domain of what services are. That's why I just remind myself that it's not the European Central Bank that controls at the same time, regulates banks, which decide whether they have a monopoly or not. This is of course done by the Commissioner in charge of protecting competition in the EU. Our proposal is and I hope that in some coming period and the DS will help you in this domain and our proposals finally end it seems to me a little too comfortable the relationship between NBS and the banks' association and the business banks in our country. It's just time for that. As far as the Law on Intermediation and Transport is concerned, the lease of immovable property. We have nothing against this law just to say that even those who do this work know very well that there is no work, and those who have it mostly are those who are not and will not be regulated, first of all lawyers, a public notation that has not yet been established. That is why it is very important that there are sanctions for those who will not operate in accordance with this law. Here you have predicted that those who work hard, sign a contract, follow the law, and there are good solutions, as you said, I am grateful that the previous government has proposed, in essence only sanctions are provided for those who respect the law, and we do not see sanctions for those who work past this law, i.e. They're not in this system, they're not on the Internet, and yet they're intervening. Unless they're cheating on our citizens there's no sanctions for them. That should be predicted. Anyway, about this domain, what we expect from the government, it's not that it gives us a text that regulates nothing, because there's no traffic right now. Suggest in the 2014 budget that there be at least some money for social housing. I'm honored to have been, if you'd like, the creator of the tax waiver measures to buy the first apartment. By the way, I'm especially proud to be a member of the DS today. Especially proud that the finance minister was in the government of Zoran Djindjic, because it took 12 years to hear the former radicals admit that he and the government were trying to strengthen our tobacco industry. Yeah, that's true. I am proud to have been the finance minister who proposed to the Serbian Assembly the Law on Excises, which was prosperous and which was a major problem for Croatian producers and for all others. That was possible, that was legal, and that's why, if you have an 8% stake today, believe me, ask them, that's what we've been leading in that way. It wasn't a moment, and the pressures were terrible to give our market and then to the tray. We didn't accept it because DIN and DIV, Vranje, Nis were on their knees. Through that law, through the tobacco law that made one system to buy from our producers and many other things like holographic excise stamps. The pressure I personally and the government exerted on other producers to break off that sales practice in Switzerland so-called. transit goods that went without a excise stamp and flooded our market. That's all Zoran Djindjic did. That's what I did for him. That's what I'm proud of. Twelve years later, I'm glad that no one in this room has ever thought to tarnish his work and what he's done and in that area. We remember what was said there. So we created a system, and in 2003 we succeeded very successfully and without a doubt in the validity of the procedure to privatise both Nis and Vranje, number one in the world, number two in the world, and then the next government was able to attract both three from Japan and one domestic producer. That's what we did, and I'm sorry that you didn't continue on that path to protect this decision, which, by Twitter's 23:00 hours, leaked out of the European Commission as if something was being done shamefully and not working, because of your fear that there's one negative sentence in a report, and you're saying that we're certainly starting negotiations. If you're afraid of that one sentence that's why we're not going to start negotiations, you're afraid for a reason how you're going to continue to conduct these negotiations. As for the Law on Electronic Trade, Mr. Vice President, I don't want to call you here, but it seems right to me that we can ask what sense it is to propose such a law, and I won't go back to the details I talked about in the opening presentation when you're getting ready, which is said by the finance minister, to increase the VAT on hardware, software and software produced by us and sold to all peripheral devices. Is this the moment when the budgets for education are weak, that VAT is raised? You have not answered my question, whether as head of the Social Democratic Party, member of the international party as a democratic party, you can now confirm to me that you will not vote to raise the VAT rate from 8% to 10% and transfer those goods from 8% to 20%, because no SDP in Europe does. Without you, Mr. Ljajic, this government no longer has a majority. Without you, who were on our list, she has no possibility of further deepening the poorest or jeopardizing the knowledge economy. We're counting on you, we're relying on your social democratic principles, you can do it, and the right to tell you, and you have to find some other ways, to save yourself, to say it that way, we don't want a channel, we don't need a railroad from Loznica to Valjev, maybe you can explain it to your colleagues from Russia and we can do it all in a much better way. As far as the rest of this package is concerned, I just want to say, as far as the contract and the work that we have in the domain of the dedicated industry is concerned, this is one branch that DS, which is even the first vice president to admit, raised with 70,000,000 dollars in annual exports of Serbia's dedicated industry, we were at $250,000 from 2009 to 2011. It is a specific industry, where all capacities have been used and we hear that Krusik has already fired several hundred people in Valjev, that there will soon be a serious risk for the future of the factory. I'd like to hear from you what the government is, because you're its vice president, you're dealing with foreign trade, and the SDPR is under you, and I ask you to tell us what you're predicting to do, to continue exporting as was the case with DS, $250,000 or more, and we congratulate you on that, dedicated goods. Finally, and that's what you and I were talking about, and bilaterally, it's good that this is being ratified with Morocco, it's not good that the exchange is so low, it's not good that the plan that one of our few companies worked there was building part of the highway between Rabat and Morocco, and you know that I'm a member of one advisory group, a transition to the transition of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and I had the chance, because the idea is that these from Eastern Europe help those from so-called Eastern Europe. "Arab spring" to carry out reforms, and I was in Casablanca and it is obvious that they expect more from Serbia. I don't know why we're importing a lot more sardines from Thailand, but from Morocco, why we're importing a lot more agrums from some other countries, not Morocco, and there's a chance that they can offer us more. I point out to you the possibilities Turkey, and you know very well, used to import, what is the production of artificial fertilizer and building operations, and I know that you know it very well, but I want our nation to know it, to be introduced into the great process of investment of OCP, a world leader in the range of phosphates, and in return we get a job for our construction industry and get much cheaper raw materials for our agriculture. That is possible, Mr. Ljajic, where we are waiting for you, we expect you as a Social Democrats who will not vote for an increase in the VAT rate, we expect you to make proposals for the survival of trade, to prevent us from really being a polygon for regional interests, and at every step we give this white flag of capitulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24446	People's MP, time has been used. The word has Minister Rasim Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24447	As for the common front of the countries that were in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement adaptation negotiations, I stressed that because we did not formulate a single position with BiH together, which is the only one that has not accepted the adaptation of the agreement, because both Macedonia and Montenegro and Albania have practically accepted all the conditions regarding the adaptation of the agreement without any negotiations, so that the front has shrunk on two countries. Bosnia and Herzegovina is in a more difficult position than we are, due to major imports of goods from Croatia, and also because it has not been under so much pressure, because it is not in the accession phase, pending a date for the start of negotiations, i.e. it is still far from that status. I can tell you from experience that our common position with BiH has further affected the European Commission's decision not to continue any talks unless there is a change in any of our individual attitudes, or positions. As far as the Competition Protection Commission is concerned, there are no legal obstacles to the Commission’s abuse of the dominant position in the banking sector. We wanted to make that change, but the legislator made it very clear that there were no obstacles to the current law to do so. It is true, there was no practice, the Commission did not do so. Why? We, among other things, make changes to the law for two reasons. It is one thing to increase the efficiency of this commission, to give them opportunities and instruments to deal more adequately with the abuses of the dominant position, and on the other hand, to strengthen the capacity of the commission, because we only had lawyers within the Commission's Board of Protection of Competition. What their decision will be, neither I nor anyone can decide here, and on the one hand when you give instruments and opportunities, the capacity for the Commission to deal adequately, then you have criticism that they are not competent enough, or are at that stage that they can be so independent and independent. If they don't have it, they use it as an alibi so they can't do their job, and we've made full use of all the positive practice of EU countries, and all the directives are incorporated into amendments and additions to this law. We have adapted all of this and some of our circumstances and practices that we have had in the work of the Commission, so that no one can say that the Commission does not have enough instruments and mechanisms to fight more adequately against monopolys, i.e. abuse of market positions. As for the increase in VAT, we still do not have a definitive proposal, which was in one of the ministers' statements to consider the possibility that computer equipment would go from a lower rate, but the proposal is still not at the official initiative that the government discussed. I agree with you to keep the computer equipment at a lower rate, I mean the VAT.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24448	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24449	Mr. Ljajic, I can understand why you won't answer me, and you haven't answered me if you'll support me, because without you, this regime doesn't have a majority. Obviously, VAT will increase from 8% to 10%. I'm, to say, very concerned because if the finance minister said that the VAT is increasing to one good as IT, and I hear the Deputy Prime Minister who says that nothing has been decided, it just shows what state this government is in. Now I understand better why the Minister of Economy didn't find it appropriate to come to that session. We know that you don't know what to do in government, we know it, but the problem is that it's not just your problem, it's the problem of our entire nation. So, if you could answer me if you're going to vote as a Social Democrats, and you have the power not to, to increase VAT rates from 8 to 10%, it would seem to me to be an important step for our country, not just for your party, which would thus further strengthen its social democratic commitment and I think that you would be welcomed at the next session by international means, with great applause and we would organize it. Believe me, and not in the right way, because we know it's not easy for you, we know it's not easy for you, and on the other hand you can do it, so do it, Mr. Ljajic, confirm that you won't support an increase in the rate from 8 to 10%. You can do it, and so you'll make those who really run those finances, I know you don't run it, to find a different solution, to find a saving place where they belong, to give up on crazy projects. That would be the right solution, and for all of this, we expect much stronger proposals from you and to discuss our country's real problems in the weeks to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24450	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic. Time is available for 11 minutes and 30 seconds and it is last registered on the list of speakers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24451	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers, distinguished fellow MPs, we have before us a set of laws that primarily aim to raise legal certainty in areas such as electronic trade, traffic intervention and the lease of immovable property, imports-export of dual-use goods and protection of competition. What all these laws have in common is that it insists on expertise, insists on efficiency and insists on tightening the criminal policy aimed at deterring from breaking the law. In my presentation, I will briefly refer to only two proposed laws, which are the bill on amendments to the Law on the Protection of Competition and the second, completely new law, the proposal for a law on traffic intervention and the lease of immovableity. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Competition, I would first and foremost refer to Article 72, which aims primarily to increase one efficiency in the judicial procedure that I think is in favour of all market entities. So, to prevent what has been a practice so far, which is an unnecessary delay in court proceedings. Then, what's a big problem in the work, meaning the practical work of the commission, is too short a period of limitations. The deadline has now been extended from three to five years in view of all the complexity of this area, and the deadline has also been extended to adopt a solution in the investigation procedure extended from three to four months, because the three-month deadline has proved too short to adequately collect all the necessary data from relevant factors such as competition, buyers, suppliers and others. Then, I would mention the ethical code of commission that was introduced not only for the reputation of such an important institution, but also for the possible protection of all members of the Commission who can be exposed to different types of pressure, which I am sure will increase one independence, one impartiality of such an important institution, such as the Commission for the Protection of Competition. Then, he insists on the expert and competent composition of the council. Now there will be experts from two key areas, which are areas of law and economy, which has not been the case so far, and it has proved that one such a demanding and complex area really requires an interdisciplinary approach. When it comes to the proposal, it means a whole new law on traffic intervention and the lease of immovableity, I think it's more than clear why it was necessary to pass this law. In fact, the existing situation in the immovableity market is such that there is virtually no legal certainty, whether it wants to buy an apartment, whether it wants to rent an apartment or any other immovable property, citizens face numerous problems and many frauds, starting with so-called. agencies that issue non-existent apartments. So, we only have one classic situation when inside parents send a student to Belgrade to study, of course we need an apartment, which is a logical step, they address the agency and then the agency very neatly advances to charge their commission, and the citizen remains deceived. Also, numerous examples are that the same apartment buys more faces. So, one such existentially important thing in an ordinary citizen's life, and that citizen has no legal protection or security whatsoever. This law changes everything, it introduces order, it introduces discipline, first and foremost responsibility, and what is most important, it introduces control over the implementation of this law, which is the most important thing in order for the law to actually live in practice. What is now needed, as provided for by this law, is that there are extremely precise conditions for valid registration in the register. It also insists on the easy availability of information contained in the register via the internet, then on accuracy, the up-to-dateness of this data. If any change occurs, the mediator shall report these changes no later than seven days. So, ultimately, obligations and intermediaries were made, and so were the obligations of the employers. Also something that is new, the professional training that is now being insisted on, which has not been the case before, means more of this intervention business cannot be dealt with by anyone, there must be a passed expert exam and an appropriate expert prepare. From this point on, it was clear that the maximum work was to introduce order in these areas which are of paramount importance for the proper functioning of a single country, to prevent the grey economy as much as possible and what is most important, which I would point out, is to introduce order on the market, because the unorthodox situation on the market illustrates a clear state of play in the country. So order on the market means order in the country, and in such a country is invested. This is how domestic and foreign investors are drawn to each other, and yet this means new jobs for our citizens and a better life for our citizens, which is the strategic goal of this government, and that is why in the day for the SNS vote, it will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24452	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? No, I don't. ) pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. Dear People's MPs, notice of session interruption. Namely, pursuant to Article 101(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I interrupt the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2013 and for the purpose of holding a new session of the National Assembly. As is known, National Assembly President Nebojsa Stefanovic called for the 7th special session of the National Assembly in 2013 for the beginning today at 17.00 hours, at which the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's National Assembly MPs will be addressed by the President of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Ivo Josipovic. The first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013 will continue tomorrow, on Thursday 17 October 2013, starting at 10.00 p.m., continuing in the order of the agenda, the next joint general and uniform search. At the same time, and on the basis of Articles 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will continue its work after 18.00 hours, if there is a need for this, given the duration of the 7th Special Session in 2013. Thank you, 7th special session at 1700 hours. [[The session was suspended at 13.40 p.m.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24453	THE REPUBLIC OF THE SERBIAN COMMUNITY OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT OF THE seventh special session (unregulated and unauthorized) of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 16 October 2013 (The session began at 17.10 p.m. The session is chaired by Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, president of the National Assembly. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24454	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the People, I am opening the seventh special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. As you know, this special session I called for the National Assembly to be addressed by the President of the Republic of Croatia, His Excellency Mr Ivo Josipovic. I am honored to welcome on behalf of the MPs and on behalf of myself His Excellency Mr Ivo Josipovic, and I welcome the other members of the delegation of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the representatives of the diplomatic court who are following today's session from the gallery of the Great Hall of the National Assembly. I now ask His Excellency Mr Ivo Josipovic, President of the Republic of Croatia, to take his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24455	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, your Excellency, ambassadors, thank you for my opportunity to address the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Although the history of relations between Croats and Serbs is long, I am the first president of the Republic of Croatia in history to have the honour of addressing MPs of the National Assembly. The fact itself suggests that relations between our two countries have reached the point of final maturation. This means that we are democratic countries that have a political will and determination to close a circle of conflict and open a space for true partnership. A conscious responsibility for every word I say here, I'll be very open, without phrases that are common on similar occasions. I want to speak as a politician aware of the responsibility we all bear for the future of Croatia and Serbia's relations, for the future of our countries. Our two nations and our two countries are simultaneously bound and separated by a complex common past. It exchanged periods of cooperation and periods of conflict. We had difficult moments that separated us, but we also had periods of joint success and good cooperation. Constantly returning to open issues from the past, without closing them, we lose our sense of reality and our sense of perspective. We must learn from the past, but with all due respect for the past, our obligation is to live today and life tomorrow. To repeat the words of late Prime Minister Djindjic – life cannot wait. Our countries, our citizens and citizens must welcome the solution to all those problems that burden us with each other's relations. They must have the opportunity to take advantage of whatever good we can do for mutual benefit through cooperation. Finally and most difficult, mutual trust needs to be restored. Without mutual trust, it will be impossible to resolve truly important issues. This is a challenge, because among other things it is true that for many in Serbia it is different from what we know in Croatia. You need to be aware of that, and you need to make that clear. The Calvary that Croatia passed in the 1990s is remembered as a struggle for our survival, freedom and independence. We remember images of destroyed cities and villages, numerous crimes and unfortunate fates. Among the victims and people of unfortunate fate was, we are aware, and many of our fellow Serbs. If we value some historical circumstances differently, we must be united in one. We must be united in condemning every crime, because it is the only way we can send a message to future generations that guarantees that crimes will never be repeated on either side again. I must say, the cooperation we have on the plan of persecuting the perpetrators of war crimes is encouraging. All serious people are aware that our generation liked once and for all to establish a relationship between Croatia and Serbia so that it is for both of us. It's not a job that brings current political popularity. On the contrary, it brings risk, often shouting, indignity of some groups, under-sightedness of others, often times and cynicism of people who do not want to admit that it is well possible and that it can and must be stronger than evil. I especially do not accept that our difficult history forever makes us enemies or at least parties who cannot find a common language. I don't accept hopelessness, I don't accept defetism. These are all expressions of fear, ignorance, and impotence, lack of vision and confidence. This generation must have confidence. We have no right to excuse and delay the work that must be done for the benefit of our countries and peoples. The tragic works of our past connect us in a way that imposes special obligations. Those who cannot respond to the challenge will soon cease to be important on the political scene. The history of modern Europe is the history of forgiveness and strategic generosity. Our citizens chose to solve problems, not create them. At this point in front of us and our governments, there are two groups of open issues in front of our societies. One is the result of the war and the collapse of the former common state. Other open questions are actually untapped opportunities and opportunities ahead of us. Our first obligation, both political and human, is to respect innocent victims. There should be enough man and understanding and the pain of another, and the pain of those who were enemies until yesterday. As much as some criticise that words are insufficient or irrelevant, it is important to go to the scene of the loss of the innocent and to make plain the obstacles. It's the easiest thing to hate and be prejudiced. It's simple and safest, there's no question, there's no doubt about yourself, but there's no content. There's nothing. For us in Croatia, the most important question is the knowledge of the fate of the missing. We're still looking for 1689 people, Croatian citizens. Of which 953 Croatian and 736 Serbian nationalities. It's 1689 families who can't find peace and dignity to bury their loved ones. I think it's a common priority to solve this problem as soon as possible. I must say that the last moments of cooperation on this plan between our two countries are really encouraging. The second priority is to ensure everyone who has escaped the right to a home and the right to choose where they want to live. It's a question of human dignity, and it's very important to me personally. I want us to take care of the refugees and the returnees honestly and honestly. Today, there are no more political or security obstacles for the refugee Serbs to return to Croatia, nor for the Croats from Serbia to return to their homes. But to get people back, they need to be provided with housing, return of property, and a job. Many have been given that opportunity, many unfortunately, are still waiting. Our countries must help them to take advantage of this opportunity and we are aware of these responsibilities in Croatia. The collapse of the former state has also left us with unresolved problems of succession and borders. Both are being dealt with, in my court, unnecessarily slowly, and I would like our governments with more determination to enter into the resolution of these obstacles. As many property, status and economic issues affecting citizens on both sides of the border should be dealt with more quickly, so should the future. In Croatia, we have done a lot to ensure that citizens exercise their rights, but unfortunately business is not completed. Here I will meet again with Croatian citizens and citizens of Serbian nationality who have left their homes under the burden of war. They repeat that everyone has the right to return, to have the right to property and that they are welcome to Croatia. We should take care of both Serbs in Croatia and Croats in Serbia. They are an extremely important part not only of our societies but of mutual understanding. But we must not in any way treat Croats and Serbs who do not live in their home country as objects of our concern. They are except for part of their minority community and full citizens who have made an immeasurable contribution to our countries around history. A long list of Serbs in the field of science, education, culture, economy, sports and politics is an immeasurably in charge of Croatia. I'm sure you in Serbia recognize the contribution the Croats made to Serbia. In both countries, we often point out that we have excellent regulations that protect minority communities, but we always see that we haven't done enough, that in reality there is still discrimination, non-compliance with minority rights, fostering segregation and hatred. Both sides are always responsible for international responsibilities, but everywhere and always the main responsibility for the quality of international relations in the country has a majority community. In Croatia, it is the Croats in Serbia. Our second obligation is to open and create opportunities for cooperation. Croatia and Serbia are immediate neighbours, necessarily states that are focused on each other. Our citizens trade, travel, create friendships and families, exhibitions, concerts, books, academic cooperation and scientific gatherings where we participate together connect us and enrich us. The Croatian economy invested 622m euros in Serbia, 16% of total investment outside Croatia. Serbia is Croatia's ninth trading partner in the total exchange, the sixth most significant export and the tenth most significant import market. In the first quarter of this year alone, our total exchange was 295m euros. These are serious numbers for our countries, but far from what we can in economic terms achieve in mutual exchange and joint business, especially our perspectives, a joint appearance in third markets. We have to move forward. Croatia and Serbia must not and cannot be exhausted by constantly looking back, and in particular we must not be hostages of those people or groups who live by conflict and profit from it both financially and politically. We must not be exhausted even in immature debates about leadership, who is more important or stronger. That's completely pointless. We should seek a partnership in development, partnership in European values and partnership in humanity. All of us, after all, are shorter durations and less important than our peoples and states, and we should serve them with respect that creates a more quality and meaningful life. In that sense, I would like to congratulate the Serbian government on the courage it has faced with historical challenges and determination in choosing a European pathway. It should have its strength and its current political interest to determine the long-term interest of the state. The vision and strength to present it are rare and expensive values in the political market. Relations between our two countries and our two peoples are also important for overall relations in Southeast Europe. I don't think that relationship is crucial or even fatal, as some interpret it, but it is extremely important in creating a general atmosphere of cooperation. We also have a responsibility to our neighbours in the region and in Europe. Finally, the question of Europe. In both Croatia and Serbia's public space, the words "Europe" and "European integration" are mentioned a thousand times a day. They say we're going to Europe or we're back to Europe doesn't mean much. It means a lot of the values we accept with Europe. The peoples in this region should see the term "Europe" as the way of internal turmoil and reform, modernisation and adapted to these conditions. This part of Europe deserves significantly more self-awareness and faith in its capacities and knowledge. However, here I mean, of course, all of our countries, including Croatia, much more discipline, focus, strategic thinking and planning. After years of hard and demanding negotiations, Croatia became a member of the European Union. It was hard, but it paid off. Despite the current economic difficulties, I am sure Croatia has become a better society through the negotiation process. And you have a great deal of effort to achieve European ambition. I want to repeat once again that Croatia and Serbia and all their neighbours will help as much as they ask and as much as we can give. The standards are clear. They must be met equally, but there must be a commitment of the European Union to the enlargement process in a fair and transparent way. In this regard, countries in this region need to take much more and take care of their own common interests. Stronger focus is needed on concrete projects, in particular strategic infrastructure projects, strengthening the economy, joint appearance in third markets, in general creating conditions for a modern and competitive economy. As we have to make it clear - we have no choice but to cooperate, so to speak, and I hope it is a shared wish, that we are sincerely committed to this cooperation. We should constantly set ourselves new more demanding goals, constantly and persistently open up new opportunities. When I was young, a train from Zagreb to Belgrade traveled for four hours. Today this journey takes seven hours on the same train, and that's what we did backwards. In Europe, such distances travel in an hour and a half. We've lost two generations of progress and now we have to make up for it. We fight for our interests, of course, but we respect each other. We owe it to our partners in the region, Europe and the world. We owe it to generations to come. First of all, we owe it to ourselves, to our peoples and to our countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-16-0.u24456	I thank his Excellency, Mr. Ivo Josipovic. I conclude the 7th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Milivojevic.
