ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28261	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 67 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings have been prevented from attending the following MPs: Stefana Miladinović, Bojana Djordjevic, Zvonimir Stevic, Cedomir Protic, Miletic Mihajlović, Natasa Vukovic and Miroljub Stojčić. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of the motions of Dr. Rasim Ljajic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications and Prof. Dr. Zorana Mihajlović, Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, I have also called on the sittings to attend: Dejan Novaković, State Secretary at the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, Petar Stanojević and Dejan Trifunović, Assistant Minister of Energy, Development and Protection of the Environment, Dusan Protic, Assistant Minister of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications, Prof. Dr. Milorad Rakonjac, Assistant Director of the Republic of the Reserve Directorate, Mirjana Janjic, Senior Advisor in the Republic Directorate for Trade and Telecommunications, Prof. Dr. Milorad Rakonjac, Assistant Director of the Republic of the Directorate for Energy, Development and the Environment of Energy and the Centre for the Development of Energy and Development of Energy and the Environment, the Centre of the Centre of Energy and the Centre of Energy and the Centre for the Centre for the Development of Energy, We continue our work and move on to the search in detail of the eighth item of the agenda - Proposal FOR A LAW ON ROBN RESERVES You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Gorica Gajic, Dušica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Milica Vojić Marković, Aleksandar Pejčić and Katarina Rakić, as well as amendments to the Committee on Economy, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. You have received a report from the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as from the Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Members of the 2nd amendment, with correction, were together submitted by MPs: Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Milica Vojić Markovic. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28262	We discussed all the proposed amendments on the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. Many things have been adopted in order to improve legal solutions, many things have gone through corrections, but there are 16 amendments that have been accepted by our colleague Katarina Rakic, who come directly as a legal trail of Directive 119 relating to the Energy Community and the Energy Development Strategy and this part that concerns oil derivatives. There are three amendments to the Committee, which we have submitted, based on the opinion of the Data Protection Agency and since they did not go into the regulatory procedure, they relate mostly to the article. 7 and 12, which relate to the responsibilities of the Director of the Stock Reserve Directorate, which otherwise speak about how data should be kept, how the stock reserves represent the strategic property of a country and how we should treat them. Data protection falls within the authority of the Director of the Directorate and we believe that we have proposed this as a Committee based on the opinion of the National Data Protection Agency, we believe that both ministries, as proposings, the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Energy, will have no objection. We believe that this is our small contribution to improving these legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28263	Just to be clear, since I haven't read it, the government has accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been spoken of. The Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has adopted the amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28264	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, of this Article 2, our amendment says that the principle of unity and functionality should stand beside other principles in order to preserve the role of the Directorate as an independent legal person. You adopted that amendment on the Committee and it became an integral part of this law. It would have been nice if you had accepted some more of our amendments, because we're sure they would have improved this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28265	The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28266	Since the government's session is under way during this session, we have accepted this amendment with an amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28267	I find that the government has accepted this amendment with a correction and has become an integral part of the law. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs: Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28268	With this amendment, we have proposed that Article 3(3) be deleted, and it refers to autonomous provinces, units of local self-government being able to educate commodity reserves, and that this attitude be transferred and be an independent member. It's to be a member of the 5a, because we don't think it's a place for him to scream here, because Article 3 regulates in which cases the stock reserves are used. We therefore suggested that Article 3 delete this point 3 and that this attitude become an independent member of 5a in this law. Please reconsider and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28269	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 5 of the amendment, with correction, the MPs together submitted: Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić and Milica Vojić Markovic. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared. The Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy has adopted the amendment with a correction, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28270	We accept the amendment with the correction.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28271	I find that the amendment with the correction has been accepted and has become an integral part of this law. The amendment, which is added to Article 5a, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28272	Minister, this is what I was talking about earlier. That's this attitude from Article 3 that we've transferred to be like Article 5a. In addition, we also believe that the Directorate must give consent to what the municipalities and provinces plan as a republican central reserve body, as we have proposed with this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28273	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28274	There are more similar amendments. Honestly, I don't think this is the essential thing that's gonna change the content of this article and this law. In the previous solution, we had the Directorate giving consent and it did. Now this is one solution that's more practical, simpler. To be honest, this was also a proposal from the Ministry of Justice, in the original text of the solution was what you are proposing now, so we were in line with that opinion of the Justice Ministry that it was not necessary to give consent by the Directorate, but that municipalities, or autonomous provinces, could set up stock reserves in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28275	The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28276	Dear Minister, we have suggested that we still keep this, because of all the events we've had in the stock reserves. We think surveillance and control should be at all levels. We don't see why it would bother the Directorate to simply agree on the proposal of what autonomous provinces and local self-governments think they should plan the stock reserves. That is why we have proposed this amendment to remain as it has been in force so far, that the Directorate still gives consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28277	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have submitted an amendment to Article 7. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28278	The government will accept this amendment at a session that is under way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28279	I find that this amendment has been accepted and has become an integral part of the law. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28280	I just wanted to thank Mr. Minister and to thank the chairman of the Security Control Committee, who has practically submitted this proposal to the National Security Council for the Protection of Information Security. This shows another way in which national services dealing with this topic protect the interests of not only the state but also participate in creating better legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28281	The word is by MP Zoran Kasalovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28282	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr Ministers with Associates, is certainly pleased with the proposal for amendments in Article 7(1), which amends and reads that the Directorate operates in a transparent manner except in the case of data which are designated and labelled as classified. We heard from the chairman of the Committee that in this case, the National Data Protection Agency had its own proposal. We have in principle debate, me and my colleagues, just had some suggestions, suggestions, possible ways, how to fully ensure transparent and public work when it comes to stockpiling. I would like to say that the position of our parliamentary club, in addition to this law being more comprehensive and precise, is in line with EU directives, the World Trade Organisation, has also removed certain shortcomings shown by the Stock Reserve Act, still current in the previous period. First of all, we provide the public with work, i.e. some transparency, because as we have seen in the previous period, the stock reserves are practically treated as some sort of state secret. Of course, it's caused some problems. It is good that the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Dacic and coalition partners have taken certain measures in terms of stock reserves. They, above all, referred to concrete responsibilities to the Ministry of Trade, according to a working group which was educated on 12 April 2013 and the Resort Ministry of Trade in terms of supervision of the Republic Directorate. With this in mind, we have also in principle argued that we need to take seriously the problems that arise with the stock reserves, whether the true claims that there are double bottoms in silos, whether certain goods are not usable, how much is the shortage. As far as today, some have also voiced some concern in the principle of debate that it will not go to the end. I want to commend the work of the government and the MUP. We still have concrete results today, arrests, arrests of the most responsible persons. Since this government in many areas is important for the lives of citizens and in general the progress of our society has shown determination and determination to go towards the right solutions and to the end, I expect that even when these problems are at stake, the management of our stock reserves, they will get their epilogue in the end. Why is this member of the 7th important? He says, first of all, in his position, that the Directorate operates the stock reserves in a transparent manner. The original solution was – unless the rules governing the handling of data relevant for the defence of the country are defined differently. So he determines that the Directorate must operate in a transparent manner, but at the same time introduces exceptions. In accordance with the rules governing the confidentiality of the data, documents and contracts to be kept, kept and concluded in relation to the operations of the management of the stock reserves, it has been laid down and remained that the Director of the Directorate prescribes the degree of confidentiality of the data, documents and contracts to be kept, kept and concluded in relation to the operations of the management of the goods reserves, in accordance with the rules governing the confidentiality of the data. We thought that perhaps in this sense we should strengthen this provision and narrow down the ability of the director to determine the secrecy of the data and thus narrow down the transparency of work. We believe that this amendment of the Committee, in addition to this amendment to Article 12, which follows, is a more precise provision which clearly points out and says that, except in the case of data which, in accordance with specific regulations, is defined and marked as classified information, which in good part narrowed down the director's decision and specified in which cases the exceptions would be to avoid jeopardising the confidentiality of the data. In view of all this, and the fact that it is very important for us that there is a public work and transparency in the stock reserves, because this is the assumption that all possible corrupt actions, any kind of irregularities appear in the coming period and that the stock reserves fully fulfil their function, with as little reason as possible to act in some emergency situations, the SPS Parliament Club will support this proposal and we are ready to continue to participate in the work on amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28283	Thank you. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is from the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28284	In Article 9(1), we amended the amendment by detailing both the storage of stock reserves and underlining - regardless of the principle introduced in Article 2. The proposal for a law to carry out the Business Directorate in accordance with market principles. That's the first part of our amendment. The second part we suggested we delete the item 4. Why did we propose to delete the item 4 which refers to the priority of the stock reserves on the loan to the MUP, the military and the Ministry of Defence? Because that already implies an emergency situation and a war situation, and such cases are defined by Article 3 of the Law, which is why we thought there was no need to repeat it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28285	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 10th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28286	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I go to the amendment itself, to comment, a few days ago when we spoke in principle, we spoke and asked what was going on with those abuses related to the stock reserves. Today we have an answer to arrest some of them. But I don't think that's gonna be avoided when this law comes into effect, because there are a lot of gaps about it. Article 10 refers to assets for the operation of stock reserves. You say they are provided in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and from other sources in accordance with the law. We felt that another point should be put: "From the income generated by the loan or the lease of goods or equipment from the stock reserves and the lease of free storage spaces, according to the annual business programme". Of course, in the explanation you provided us, you say what we know, that the Budget Law abolished its own income and that this would be a problem. But we had in mind another thing, that these assets could be loans and then go back to the budget, come back from the budget later. I'm not sure how much the budget can come up with the needs of the state when it comes to the stock reserves. All possible funds should be provided that can contribute to filling the stock reserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28287	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28288	The last time we talked about it was when there was a debate in principle. I can agree with you, but this is simply a alignment with the Budgetary System Act, since the Directorate is a direct budget user. They don't have their own income. We gave one broad formulation that could be financed from other sources, including all of these sources that you have now listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28289	Thank you. The amendment, which was added after article 10a, was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic-Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28290	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have added another member, which reads: "The funds of Article 10 of this Law are available to the Republic's Directorate in accordance with this law and other regulations. Profits made, i.e. surplus revenue over expenditure, in the operation of the Republic Directorate shall be determined in the annual accounts and used to finance the necessary stock reserves and, if decided by the Government, for other purposes. In the event that the Republic Directorate cannot comply with its obligations under this law, the Government will take measures to ensure the conditions for the operation of the stock reserves. “ What did we want to make clear about what we added? The availability and spending of the resources of the Directorate and the way in which the profits are spent. I think this is very necessary precisely for the reasons I listed before I started explaining the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28291	Thank you. The amendment, added after article 10a, was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the messenger of the people is Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28292	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this amendment, proposed by the MPs of the DSS, said the Republic Directorate on the results of its business submitted an annual account to the Government, and in addition to this annual accounting, the Directorate also delivered a report on business. We believe this amendment should be accepted. It's very well known, and you spoke about it, Mr. Minister, in the principle debate of how much use there was for stock reserves in a previous period, and we see that today we have some people who are supposed to be responsible for such abuses. We feel that the law needs to be resolved that abuse cannot be done in some future period. We think it's a good idea for the Stock Reserve Directorate to file a report on its business to the government. We see nothing wrong with that, and in that sense, we feel that we should support this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28293	Anyone else want a word? (Yes) The word has a people's messenger, the Soul of Morts. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28294	Here's just a few sentences. As colleague Gerov said, we have submitted this amendment for these reasons. We've got arrests today. I also said in the principle debate not to be out of all of this – it was shaking worse, there was a mouse born, when there was talk of embezzlement and that everything was happening without having an epilogue of it all, that there was no responsibility behind this. In order to prevent this from happening in the future, in order to finally have a responsibility, we do not see why it is excessive to submit this report to the Government? We believe that, although you are not bound and not in this law, the work reports should also come to the National Assembly in the light of a report that we can have insight as MPs, if not all MPs, then at least a resolution board, so that we all participate in this control and that we will reduce in the future the abuse of goods reserves that are extremely important, and they were significant, which is not acceptable and we hope that this will no longer happen in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28295	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Rasim Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28296	It's not a controversial report. Otherwise, the Directorate will file a report to the government. The second point of view of this amendment is that decisions on the distribution of profits, i.e. surplus revenue over expenditure, are made by the Government on a proposal from the Director of the Directorate. From my previous explanation that we no longer have the right to our own incomes, I mean no Directorates, then there's no distribution of that income. All profits go straight to the budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28297	The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has been given by the People's Messenger of the Soul of Morchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28298	Article 11(1) states that goods reserves are educated - by the purchase of goods, by contracting the production of certain products or by trade in goods. We have suggested that this position should regulate and purchase goods for stock reserves and on the foreign market in case they do not exist or are not produced on the domestic market. This was in force, and now it's not. This was regulated by Article 8 paragraph 2 and we do not see the reason, although you have explained in your explanation that the Article 12 has now been regulated as the supply of goods is being arranged through public procurement, but we believe that it could have remained in this article as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28299	Thank you. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have submitted an amendment to Article 12. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has Minister Ljajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28300	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28301	I find that the government has accepted this amendment and has become an integral part of this law. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28302	I thank Mr. Secretary. I would like for the sake of the citizens of Serbia and the public. My colleague gave me cream. This amendment reads: “The purchase of goods for commodity reserves is carried out in accordance with the rules governing public procurement and working with classified data,” means that we now have practically two laws that are directly implemented in this respect, “except in cases where agricultural products are purchased from agricultural producers or when the application of the procurement procedure would lead to the disclosure of classified information, on which the Government makes a special decision. “ A great social responsibility to the management of stock reserves has been shown here, and we feel that this law has done very well in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28303	Thank you. The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28304	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I would really like that, given the amendments to the article. Seven and twelve. The bill, I thank the resolute minister and, in general, the government, who found hearing about such an intervention, which I think made full sense, as counterpart Tomic already explained. I would just like to give a brief explanation on this amendment, because the provisions of Article 2 are points 1 and 3. The Data Securitisation Act, in fact, provides definitions of the concepts to be applied when it comes to data of interest for the Republic of Serbia, i.e. classified information, while, on the other hand, one other legal act of the Law on Free Access to Information is limited to the right of access if the treatment of the requested data would result in damage to the interest of the Republic of Serbia, which in fact means that giving away a secret information would result in such damage. I think it's only important in terms of the explanation to mention that Articles 3. The Data Securitisation Act provides for which information is not considered classified, i.e. where the information is classified for covert purposes or a criminal offence or for overstepping the authority or abuse of the official position or of another illegal act or the conduct of a public authority. That's why I think it's very important that we put in place a provision like this, and we've made it clear to the end of a bill as important as the Stock Reserve Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28305	Member of the 15th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 16 of the amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Milica Vojić Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the competent committees have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28306	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. We have changed Article 17(1) a little, and he would, as we predicted, say: “The directive on the proposal of the Ministry of Energy Affairs (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry), brings a long-term programme of gradual formation and maintenance of mandatory stock reserves for a period of 10 calendar years (hereinafter: the long-term programme). “ We changed attitude two, and it would read: “The long-term programme set out in Article 1 is being delivered to the Government for adoption. “ Article 3 is amended and reads as follows: “The Directorate and Ministry of Energy Affairs shall monitor the achievement of the long-term programme set out in Article 1 and, if necessary, propose compliance with the real needs of at least every third year. “ Of course, this long - term planning is being talked about here, and we absolutely did not come out of what the directive says, although you are saying in your explanation that what we have predicted is not in line with what is provided for in the directive. I really don't see what it is that's controversial and what's essentially the opposite of what the directive claims? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28307	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić, Milica Vojic Markovic and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28308	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the past we had a long-term programme of gradual formation and maintenance of goods reserves. Now we have a medium-term programme, even though it's a question to me why the medium-term programme is based on three years and not on five, which would be logical, because this long-term programme is 10 and an annual programme. We have also changed there and again in line with what we consider to be the directive's manual. "The Directorate, on a proposal from the Ministry of Energy Affairs, brings a medium-term funding and maintenance programme for a period of 3 calendar years (hereinafter referred to as the medium-term programme). Paragraph 2 is amended and reads: “The medium-term programme set out in Article 1 of this Act shall be submitted to the Government for adoption. “ Item 3 is amended and reads: “On the basis of the medium-term programme, the Directorate, on a proposal from the Ministry, adopts an annual programme for the formation and maintenance of mandatory reserves for a period of 1-3 calendar years (hereinafter referred to as the annual reserve programme). “ I just think that what we stated in Article 17 and Article 18 is in line with the Directorate, we didn’t even want to change what you predicted for a five - year period or three years, we left it to be as you predicted, although it doesn’t make sense to us, but what we wrote is a directive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28309	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The 18th Amendment was submitted by Parliament member Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 19 by Parliament member Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The National MP Katarina Rakic submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 22 of the amendment with the correction, MP Katarina Rakic submitted. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28310	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it may be a little time for me to interrupt this wonderful, idyllic atmosphere. Nice law, we all support it, we all agree it's necessary. It has been done for the mandate of the last government, all this is nice, however, for the term of office of last government laws did not have legal provisions that were highly corrupt. I don't mean the Minister or the Ministry here, I mean some other people. And here's the problem for us. The problem is precisely that fee that has not been determined or defined, and what is particularly problematic, since we have received the draft budget for next year, I have seen something in the budget for the following year under some divisions. I ask if it exists or doesn't exist, is it foreseen in the budget for next year, what is it, what is it going to be? It's just some questions you shouldn't be avoiding answers from the SNS. That's what I'm asking you, since you are the applicants of the amendments that have been accepted. Let me see, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, what will happen to that fee, what is it? Who's prescribing the fee, where's it heading? Is it directed to that same fund that you've channeled billions of savings from the Public Procurement Act?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28311	Mr. Milivoevich, please return to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28312	I'm in the middle of something. I want to be explained where this fee is shown in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28313	Mr. Milivoevich, I can understand you, but that's what you were supposed to do in the principle debate. Now we're discussing a concrete amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28314	In particular, let me read you the amendment and read to you what a member of the law reads. The member of the law says – the amount of compensation for the establishment of compulsory reserves, the way in which this fee is paid, and the availability of the funds of this fee is prescribed by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Trade Affairs, and on the basis of the necessary amount of funds for the implementation of the annual mandatory reserve programme. Now I'm asking, since you didn't understand me and I believe in your good intentions that you want to make the sitting right and I support you in that, but tell me what the fee is. Somebody answer me what that fee is. To answer me where that fee is shown in the budget that we received next year and to tell me some numerical parameters as this fee is calculated. Is this some kind of virtual category, since everything in this country is virtual. I would like to hear these questions answered by the applicant who has been accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28315	The word has Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28316	What I know is that the Budget Law will intervene with the amendment to specify the item in the division of the Ministry of Energy regarding this fee you are talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28317	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28318	I accept the minister's explanation. I believe that's how it's going to be, but I have a great deal of skepticism when it comes to the good intentions of the SNS and this government and the Ministry of Finance. I am absolutely convinced that Mr Ljajic will accept that amendment that will show us in the budget where this fee will be, but since the budget will be on the agenda in a few days, what is the fee? Tell me in numerical parameters is the fee in percentages, in dinars, in euros, and how did you get the method and model of calculating that fee? These are some important questions that allow easy answers to be answered. If you've prepared the law and the amendment, I assume you've calculated the amount of compensation and how that fee is calculated. If you're not, we'll wait for the budget, and we'll talk about this and the budget, so I don't bring the minister into an awkward situation, because I don't see his guilt. It is clearly said here that it is not in his jurisdiction, that you are taking away part of his ministry's jurisdiction. Mr. Ljajic, I absolutely don't point my finger at you. You don't have any responsibility or guilt here. You have prepared the law thoroughly, you defend it well, but here again, these under whose authority Serbia has advanced back, they are capable of inserting cowardly eggs, the compensation they will charge in the way they want, and that we do not know what it is, nor the modality of calculating that fee, nor where it will end in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28319	Thank you. The 23rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28320	I'd like to ask, about this amendment, one question that imposes life. I will take the opportunity to ask the people responsible for the Stock Reserve Directorate in this amendment – do you have a situation where you have entrusted a warehouse with the storage and management of mercantile corn, wheat or any other commodity from a stock reserve and that it is unconditional and that you have determined it by commission and that it will not return it to you, in order to transfer it to a warehouse that is still suitable for the storage of such goods? You don't have to answer me now. Make a certain answer in writing. I'll wait 30 days, and then we'll see if some of them who most loudly call DS abuse some of their rights, organize some abuses, whether these white-wing candidates are so moral people, and where they grow white wings, we grow white wings because they turn us into geese, and then they rub us with tar and feathers, and basically it's about people who don't want the Stock Reserve Directorate to return what it owns and still keep it in unconditional facilities, where it can fail. You don't have to give me an answer right now. Take it easy, check the paperwork. If you don't, I'll help you remember, and then we'll read it a little bit in this congregation hall who these people are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28321	Mr. Milivoevich, please. I see what your goal is. But I ask you to stick to the agenda when we discuss these amendments. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28322	This amendment, which has been accepted, says mandatory reserves must be physically available at all times and may not be subject to any measures restricting their availability, and storage and reception infrastructures and the dispatch of mandatory reserves and warehouses must be maintained properly and neatly at all times. The government took that part, so this amendment, Mr. Ljajic, has accepted. Now I have to ask you one question, since there is no Energy Minister – does this mean, and I was talking about it in principle, that oil and oil storage stores in Prahovo near Negotina, for which NIS sent a memo to be preserved, and 30% of these warehouses are owned by the Stock Reserve Directorate? Will those warehouses be operational, given the position of the 1st amendment you accepted, which says they have to be operational? Will this prevent the conservation and removal of the oil and oil storage plant in Prahovo, near Negotin?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28323	Thank you. Member of the 24th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 28th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 30th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 31st Amendment, with correction, was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have accepted an amendment with a correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Gorica Gajic, Dusica Morčev, Bojana Bozanić and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 31st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 39th Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 41st Amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy have submitted an amendment to Article 41. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28324	In Article 41(2), we have defined in practice that sublegal acts relating to the adoption of this law are bound for a period relating to the date or period of adoption of the annual reserve programme. So we're not talking about the law itself, we're talking about the moment these stock reserves are made. It's a 30-day period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28325	The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Ljajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28326	This amendment shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28327	I find that the government has accepted this amendment and has become an integral part of the bill. The 43rd amendment was submitted by MP Katarina Rakic. The government and the Committee on Economic, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system, so I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in detail, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the next item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the ban on development, production, storage and use of chemical weapons and on its destruction You have received an amendment submitted by Members of Parliaments Radmila Gerov, Judita Popović and Kenan Hajdarevic, as well as an amendment from the Committee on the Protection of the Environment. National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Sanda Raskovic Ivić have written a letter withdrawing amendments together to Articles 1 and 2. It's a bill of law. You have received reports from the Committee on Environmental Protection and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Environmental Protection, tabled an amendment to Article 1. The government has accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Radmila Gerov, Judita Popovic and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Radmil Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28328	We have proposed an amendment to Article 2, because Article 2 says that, exceptionally from Article 1 of this Article, the report is not submitted for a chemical substance, so it is said – if the concentration of this substance is less than or equal to 1% of the total mass, greater than 1%, or less than or equal to 10% of the total mass, depending on how much production is, etc. We find it absolutely unnecessary to stand the words "in relation to the total mass", since the concentration is calculated relative to the total mass. So that's the definition of chemistry what concentration is. So when you say -- the concentration of copper in the ore is 3%, it's known that 3% is counted against the total mass. We believe that the government could accept this amendment, because I don't see why she didn't accept it, if by the definition of chemistry, you know what concentration is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28329	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm setting a break until 1400 hours and I'm also informing you that we'll be working after 18.00 hours until the law search is complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28330	We're continuing the session. I'd like to inform you that I'm in agreement with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, concerning the search in detail of the draft law in points 10, 11 and 12 of the agenda, in addition to the representatives of promoter Aleksandar Antić, the minister of traffic, called on the sittings of Miodrag Poledica, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, Dejan Lasica and Mirjan Trifunovic, assistants of the Minister of Transport, Sinisa Trkula, assistant director of the Railways Directorate, Dejan Kocic and Demir Hadzic, senior advisers at the Ministry of Transport and Vida Stevanovic, an independent adviser at the Ministry of Traffic. We move to the 10th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Security and Interoperability Law of the Railways You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Milica Vojić Marković, Donka Banović and Milan Lapčević, as well as the Government. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. In writing, the amendments were withdrawn by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic to Article 8 paragraph 3(2), sub-point (2) and Donka Banovic on Article 8 paragraph 2. 1), sub-point (4) and Government on Article 54. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Government has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Given the agreement of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28331	I'm sorry, if we could go back to this article 7, you were on your way a little fast, I wasn't even aware that we were the only ones who had submitted the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28332	Mrs. Banovic, I don't mind. So we're going back to your first amendment to Article 7, the amendment before this?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28333	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28334	Okay, then we're going back to one point. Mrs. Banovic hasn't been able to pick up. Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28335	Thank you. This amendment shall apply to the third position in this Article. Otherwise, Article 7 speaks of interoperability requirements. I'll read it for the citizens, because I know the Minister and the Ministry know what it is. Thus, the article reads: “That requests for interoperability can also be applied to railways that are functionally separated from other railway networks and which are intended exclusively for urban and suburban transport of passengers, as well as vehicles exclusively used for tourist-museum railways and which drive on special terms. ” Our intervention is to say: "can be applied" by replacing the words "application to these parts of the railway" before, for example, being applied to these parts of the railway. in Article 1, I think that's Section 4, says that the provisions of this law are not applied to subways, trams and light rail systems and to the tourist-museum railway. So here it appears in the bill itself different treatment, where you say in the first article exactly that it is not applicable to the tourist-museum railway, and in article 7, you say that these applications can be applied. Since we believe that this safety and interoperability law really contributes to the security of the complete system, then we have gone a step further, and we see that there is a discrepancy even between the two members when it comes to this, so we have suggested that "they can be applied" to the changes in the words "application". I also understand your explanation where you say, if that's true, that they don't belong to the standard rail system, but they do. It is a certain rail system, and we believe that for the sake of overall security, because surely this interoperability, I am, in fact, absolutely certain, because there are a whole series of standards and conditions that, under interoperability, mean that these systems should also be applied to all of these requirements and that they should not be singled out. I'm sorry there weren't any different amendments, so if you don't take this step forward, in the application for application, that someone hasn't noticed either, then they've called on Article 1, where you're absolutely shutting down this section of the railroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28336	Thank you. If this time of two minutes is exceeded to comment on the amendment that has been filed, we will take a little bit away from the time of the parliamentary group. On the next amendment to the 8th, I assume you will again, Mrs. Banovic? You don't want to? (No) Thank you. The government has submitted to Article 8 of the amendment. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 8th Amendment with the correction was filed by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 10th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mrs. Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28337	Thank you. Article 10 speaks of the area of application, and in fact the area applies to the previous member, and these are unique technical regulations. It's a whole series of very serious regulations. In this article where the area of application is defined, it is about the same argument as for the amendment to Article 7, where the proposing says that uniform technical regulations can also be applied to vehicles and railways not covered by Article 1, which is the attitude I was talking about, you again apply the words "can be applied". So what you can see from this is that I'm also a proposer is not sure whether to apply or not, that is, there is likely to be a need to apply. Then that's where you leave the door open. You're also in doubt. Because of the importance of this law, above all for security, and this interoperability, that the complete system functions and functions as a whole, which is also part of another larger continent, whether the system or subsystem, is the same argument, that it does not remain: "it can be applied uniform technical regulations", rather than that it reads: "to apply uniform technical regulations".
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28338	Thank you. Mrs. Radmila Gerov also answered. Here you go, Mrs. Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28339	I would like to thank the chairman, Your Honor. We believe that this amendment should be adopted, as Article 10 of the proposed law provides that uniform technical regulations are to be applied to newly built, improved or renewed vehicles carrying out international transport in rail transport, as well as to newly built, improved or renewed railways on which trains are carried out. In the second position to which this amendment has been submitted, it is said that these regulations may apply to vehicles and railways not covered by Article 1(1). The government's explanation for why it did not accept this amendment says that accepting the amendments would be unnecessary for the reason why very high costs would be incurred by railway infrastructure managers and railway undertakings. We think, above all, that safety is essential in relation to the costs incurred by railway infrastructure managers and transporters. If you remember Mr. Antic, when we talked here about the principle of this bill, I distracted you, and you said that you would check and inquire about why 300 trains were cancelled from the direction of Zaječar towards Negotina and Majdanpek in October of the month, and 180 departures in September. Just three days after that, when I was here in the Assembly saying that the "Serb Railways" knew it, we had a situation that Majdanpek burned down by a complete train carrying it somewhere between 30 and 50 passengers. Good luck to the passengers was nothing. If the government believes that something can be applied, then we believe that it must be applied, regardless of the costs, because the safety of these passengers and goods that will go far beyond the importance of this transport compared to the costs of "Serbian Railway". I would ask you to answer me if you have received information from the director, who is responsible for the poor remonting of these trains, and there are three in Zajecar, and will the director of "Serb Railway", for example, because of such a situation, because of the situation that a mismanaged remont was made, and that such a train still carried passengers, for example, will we get the strength, that if anything else even resigns to that function?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28340	Thank you. Does anyone want a word? Minister, Mr. Alexander Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28341	I thank Mr. Vice President, at the very beginning, I would like to thank the DSS parliamentary group first for the large number of amendments submitted, Mrs. Donki Banovic, who was primarily the bearer of the entire set of attempts to fix the law, to get the law done. We accepted one number of amendments. I repeat, I am extremely pleased with every joint attempt to make the law better and more complete. I will occasionally answer the word so that I will not comment on the amendments after every discussion. So, your remarks related to Article 7 and Article 10 and lack of imperative that certain interoperability segments must be applied is exclusively related to the tourist-museum railway. I'm simply asking you to understand it that way. Those railway segments, those railway lines, those railways on which regular traffic is carried out, must be fully tightened in accordance with this system that the law provides, when it comes to tourist-museum, when it comes to the "Sharganese Eight", which these elements tax, the imperative is not necessary. Why do we say it can be applied? So if one day you get the conditions to raise it to a higher level, but don't raise the scale to that level that we're beginning to realize we can't skip. The common problem with our legislation is that the government, the ministry, and my ministry, comes out with legal projects that are simply not adapted to the time and moment we live in, so right after that, we go six months or a year with a law where we change the time when the law will apply. This law has tried to be realistic, to define where it must be applied and where it must be applied very explicitly, and where it is not imperative to apply, we have not suggested that norm as such. When it comes to Mrs. Gerov's discussion, I was the last time you discussed Mrs. Gerov, absolutely agreed with everything you said, but unfortunately, this time between the debate in principle and the debate in particular has further confirmed the correctness of all your spoken words. This incident we had on the line to Zaječar is another painful proof of the fact that our condition, our overall state in the railway system, is very bad. This case is a de facto and a confirmation of what I have talked about in this Assembly and where we have been well agreed with most MPs that there is a need for systemic change in the Railways. I think it's a confirmation of the fact that we need to restructure the railways and that we need to isolate the infrastructure from one side and that it's done by some people without rail transport, the state of their operations and locomotives, cars, that it's something that's going to be done by another team of people, and that such a new system will improve the whole thing. When it comes to a specific matter, all the problems are related to those ten famous Swedish trains that were purchased in 2006. These locomotives have proved to be in a good segment of quality and very economical, above all from the point of view of fuel consumption, because according to the data I have, they spend, for example. Some 15 liters of elevators per 100 miles, which is one excellent economy, but on the other hand they have a certain problem with turbines. This is already the third such locomotive that for the same reason has been set on fire, so I can say freely. The Commission, in the case of railways in which the entire work is being followed by our Ministry inspector, came out on the spot. They're doing judgments. We'll try to find a technical solution that will make these remaining seven of these locomotives safe. We can always ask the question of responsibility. That's always an attractive question. Unfortunately, there are some things that have been passed down from the past. There are some things that have welcomed each and every one of us, including those people who run the railroad today. This inherited condition was so bad that it was really hard to talk about the segment of objective and subjective responsibility of the people who run the railway today. I'm really trying, doing the job of the minister of traffic for two and a half months, to be realistic and to be correct with people inside the system, and I can't, and it's hard to get out with any assessment that would go on the burden of the current railway management, because I repeat, and they've been met by very difficult conditions, and they've been welcomed by locomotives and wagons that have been derailed, spent. All of this is trying to service itself, all of it is trying to maintain itself, unfortunately this maintenance process is difficult to establish over equipment that is very old. In this particular situation, I repeat, there is a technical problem with turbines on these Swedish locomotives. It is rapidly working to overcome this problem and try to keep those seven remaining locomotives in traffic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28342	Mrs. Gerov, you want a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28343	I thank you, Minister, for your reply, and I'm glad that you agree with my discussion. But I can't agree with part of your discussion. I understand the ill-inherited state. The old locomotives of ten of those Swedes. But I can't understand the next thing I know, someone's been mismanaged and let a train like that carry passengers. They're passengers. It's not potatoes. I'm sure the director of the railways knows, for example. If he had a harri and a poorly-made remont car, he wouldn't have sat down to drive a car like that. That's what this is about. So if they didn't know it was a badly done remont, I could tell they were driving, that's what happened. But here it was known at the beginning. So he knew the head of Zaječar, so he knows "The Railway of Serbia", and he publicly says that the mismanaged remonts for those trains in Zajecar are bad. It's really inadmissible for me for such trains to carry passengers. Because, now, fortunately, no one got hurt. But it doesn't mean it won't happen tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, or in a month. If "Serb Railway" can build an underpass, if that is true, near the current director's place and dump 500 million on it, then there must be money and service trains operating in eastern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28344	National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted together to the 16th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 17th amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28345	I'd say this intervention has something to do with good communication or communication in time. We heard from Mrs. Gerov's discussion that there was communication there. Now, the question is whether this communication was valid, whether it was all so, if everyone knew everything without doing anything to prevent this carnage. Article 17 speaks and bears the title ‘The non-compliance of interoperability factors with certain sets of regulations’. Among other things, this article states that the Directorate has the right to restrict the scope of interoperability factors, to prohibit its further use or to order its withdrawal from the market if they are established, and to list here any irregularities, including the irregularity that the Declaration of Consistency has been unlawfully issued, that the interoperability factor has a Declaration of Consistency or Suitability for Use and which is used for the purpose of not meeting the basic requirements, or that the Directorate finds that the interoperability factor did not respect or respect certain regulations. The amendment itself refers to paragraph 2, where it is said that the solution to the measures taken by the Directorate is delivered to the person who issued the Declaration of Consistency and the notified body which issued the certificate of conformity. That's where you put the point, or if you didn't have any deadline for the Directorate to deliver the solution over what period. When I think about it, maybe this is too short, because I guess there is, but if you go through the whole process and find that the interoperability factor doesn't work according to the solution it has, then that 30-day deadline is fine. So, if you've already established the facts, why is the problem being delivered within 30 days by the Directorate? You have answered me not to accept the amendment and you say that it is not necessary to set a railway deadline for delivery of a solution, so you point out that the Directorate is a state body and that the Administrative Procedure Act is applied. That's right. However, we are very common, not only in your mandate or in your previous mandate, but it is somehow the manner of some of our state authorities, not to disrespect the deadline, but also not to give a deadline, but to have deadlines in laws, but not to deliver solutions in time. We even have more, I don't know if it's some acquired tradition or acquired provision, it's very often said about it, it's the silence of the administration, gentlemen, so now if the administration is silent for a certain period, then you take it as a positive opinion. This is what I've caricated a little bit now. So, that story about the silence of the administration is something that costs us all a lot, and citizens, and for God's sake, when it costs the citizens, it costs the state.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28346	I was warned, but they promised me they wouldn't punish me. I skipped one amendment. We need to get back to Article 15. That, by the way, is page 9 in the text. It is an amendment submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Do you know, Mrs. Banovic, which amendment I mean? In Article 15, paragraph 6, after the wording, "obligations" is deleted and the words are added: "it has written proof thereof". Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted together to Article 20 of the amendment. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28347	I'm sorry, you may not have seen, but I just got back to you. This is an amendment to Article 20 of Article 10. It is about keeping documentation, or keeping documentation, and it is about the obligations of the Railway Directorate. You'll see, we have a lot of such amendments, where we don't think it's enough that the law says that the Directorate will keep records of the certification certificates issued. This article is about that kind of record. You'll see later, I don't want to talk about all the interventions, but simply Mrs. Markovic and I wanted the law to say that it was the obligation of the Directorate to keep records, in this case, of the certification certificates issued and in electronic form. You've answered me, and I can agree with your answer, that it's meant to be run in writing, but also in electronic form. You even point me out, I don't think, but I do know, on the "Serb of Serbia" website, where there are various types of record keeping for different subjects and in electronic form. We felt that it should also be in the law, especially as it is in some other laws, where it is also spoken, or some other ministries have an obligation to keep records, prominently, so in writing, electronic form is not understood. I don't know about you on the Railway whether you have this problem or whether all your units are well networked when it comes to electronic communications or the Internet, but I know some other systems where you've been trying for years to establish a unique information system, and a lot of money has been invested, and it hasn't gotten to that unique system. I'll talk about this somewhere else, but I don't want to talk about all the amendments, because they're about the same, that the law should say that, in this case, the Directorate has an obligation to keep electronic records.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28348	Moving to Article 22. National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted the 22nd amendment. Srdjan Milivojevic, as an authorised representative of the DS parliamentary group, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28349	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I can see that the atmosphere is beautiful, pleasant, it's a nice debate about the law, as if today's paper doesn't write anything. Not to speak in the agenda, I've been waiting for something called a permission to come through this agenda. When it comes to permission to use, I'm interested in what kind of permission to use is there to get Sima's overpass in Vrčino, 200 meters from his house? It's about the director of the railroad. If you do not believe me, read today’s “Blitz. ” In today's "Blica" we see the SNS spending taxpayers' money. I know, Mr. Minister, that you don't like my discussion and that this discussion is probably coming out of those frameworks you're used to, that you're expecting, but we from the DS as members of a free-thinking party are suffering fierce criticism these days for some bridges in Belgrade. You know, Dragan Gilas wasn't building a bridge at his house, right up to his job. Here we have the director of Railways, Mr. Simonovic, who makes an underpass in front of his house, where he lives, where, according to the plan and budget of the Railways, the project of the bridge is not envisaged, nor is the construction of the overpass. Do I just have to warn you that some people from the DS who were local officials ended up in prison because they allegedly didn't spend money from the municipal budget in line with the municipal budget plan? I am today as a folk MP informed that when it comes to this overpass or underpass, there is no project planned for the current year. On the contrary, it is said that there are much more urgent places. I'm asking you now, is this the SNS morale you're talking about? Is this the morale, is that the criticism of these bridges that cost your hypotheses and imaginary information, I don't know how many billion? Is this how you spend taxpayers' money? I would like to interrupt this debate about this law now and tell us when you will be taking over the director-general of "The Railway of Serbia". It's the only answer to this topic and these calls of the topic. It's the only right thing to do is to withdraw this law immediately, because I have a suspicion that the Director General is able to enforce this law, since he is unable to comply with the provisions of some other laws and when he demonstrates his will. I think it's dangerous for Serbia to talk about the real nature of the SNS, about their arrogant way of spending taxpayers' money and the need to talk about some other issues here, not this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28350	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28351	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since, unfortunately, we are not talking about the amendment of distinguished colleagues, we are talking about some other things, we are talking about overpasses, underpasses, something that is from the domain of your ministry, Mr. Antić, I would like to know how many overpasses, how many underpasses, how many routes in Serbia can be made for 38 billion dinars, or about 350m euros of how much only one company, just one former mayor of Belgrade, and from the moment he became minister, and afterwards, the mayor of Belgrade. I'll ask other ministers, I'll ask the Minister of Health how much maternity care could be done, the Minister of Education how many schools, how many housing spaces, but since we're talking about underpasses and overpasses, the roads, the railway infrastructure, that instead of private pockets, instead of one man's contact, one firm, could be directed for public good, in the interest and benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would ask, such average overpasses and underpasses, how many such infrastructure things could be done so that Serbian citizens would not risk their lives when crossing the line, somewhere unmarked, somewhere because of stolen infrastructure and ramps, and unfortunately, still the Criminal Code in that domain we haven't voted, but I believe that at the next vote and that Criminal Code will be well defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28352	Thank you. As chairman at the moment, let me say, as you said about the party, you've now received an answer and I'm afraid we'll leave the amendment. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28353	In line with this, I would really like us to go back to the amendment debate. What Mr. Milivojevic was talking about, I as someone who is now running this ministry, which takes care of the state of the infrastructure, but also of security in all segments of the use of that infrastructure, cannot be against any project that goes towards solving those places where our fellow citizens are, unfortunately, threatened. Sometimes accidents happen. Unfortunately, sometimes these accidents have tragic consequences. In Serbia today, we have more than 2,000 road crossings, one of which is barely slightly more than 20% adequately secured either by denivellation or by ramps, by full signalling and a big job, a big task ahead of us as a society and a state, in front of the Railways, in front of the Serbian Roads, in front of all the local self-governments, to make these travellers more quality and better provided. One of these road crossings is located in Vrčino. Without any dilemma in any perspective, it should be done like many others. It is on the list of these points that we as a state and "railways" will have to solve, whether in some priority this road crossing should work now or whether there are some that are higher priority, that is the thing that we can discuss and leverage. I gave the director of Railways my opinion that before going to solve this road crossing, which should definitely be done, several others should be resolved, so as not to have such controversy whether this road crossing is working in some first priority because the game is the director of Railways from Grocka or Vrčina or not. The director of Railways lives in the municipality of Grocka, does not live in the city centre. Because he lives in Vrčino, it must not be any more difficult circumstance for the citizens of Grocka and for the citizens of Vrčina. I repeat, that road crossing needs to be done. We need to do it in the top priority he's in. I told the director "The Railway" today and he agreed that before the road crossing to Vrčino is made, there should be a solution for those who may be a higher priority than him and that road crossing will not be done in isolation from others. Its solution is in direct connection with the resolution of other problems, such as Batajnica, such as Sremica, Želnik and many others in the territory of the City of Belgrade, which are in such a position to seriously question the regularity of the crossover of passenger, i.e. car and railway traffic. I simply repeat as someone whose safety is in traffic, people's lives, children's lives in the first place, I can't judge anyone who's trying to do a road-crossing project, but I've asked for it to be done according to priorities, and I think that I've agreed on it with the leadership of the Railways, so I don't want this issue to be politicised because I think that this issue can't be deeply active, but it's a matter of traffic security, where things shouldn't be experienced on the basis of who lives, who is where, but how self-threatening and how much statistics we have that place has caused car accidents. According to that logic, it is in one of the phases of the first or second priority group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28354	Thank you very much. The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic called again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28355	Mr. Chairman, to avoid any misunderstandings about not talking about the amendment, I will read for the sake of the citizens, for the sake of the public, about those who honor me now making up some subject about this amendment what it says in Article 22 of the Law in the last paragraphs. ‘After issuing a licence for the use of structural subsystems, the Directorate shall continuously verify: 1) Infrastructure in the sense of issuing and controlling compliance with the requirements for the issue of infrastructure security certifications. “ So this is a couple of points of law that I’m talking about. Secondly, I understand you, Mr. Minister, you're from a recent minister and I really don't mind, we'll give you 100 days to see where you've all come from. We don't criticize you for this, nor honor you for anything. We know that you come from the most orderly system in the Republic of Serbia, from the City of Belgrade to the Ministry of Traffic, and there you find the situation you find, and I really don't ask you a question, but I have an appeal. When we talk about infrastructure, I pray that you do not turn this assembly into a goat's congregation, where two atoms are fought in front of the goats by one atom pulling out sabers and cutting heads, and another atom taking spears and throwing them over their shoulders, so who's going to jump on horses, like in Russian novels and Russian classics, over the break-in and over the ambience. This is where we face not sabers, not spears, not horses, but arguments. Please, in the context of the discussion of arguments, you who know the answer to every question, aside from why Serbia has been forwarding since when you are in power, answer the question very specifically, as regards Article 22 of the Law – is this infrastructure facility, called Sima's Overpass or Sima's Underpass, intended for the 2013 railway budget? If not, do you know that when someone does something to taxpayers' money other than what's written in the budget, he commits a crime? Is that why you SNS, sworn crime and corruption fighters, will file criminal charges against the CEO of the Railways? These are three very simple questions, simple questions and deserve answers. Since you don't have the answers, I'll answer you. You will not file a criminal report because you are not fighting crime and corruption systematically but selectively. You don't care how Sima spends her money, because if you had any concerns about how she spends her money, you'd have replaced her after the bahanalia at lunches. What I have to read to you again – with the 2013 railway business programme, the work on the railway crossing to Vrčin was not envisaged. Then Sima took half a million euros, what's left of lunch, and do you know how much for 39 billion, after you asked me, he would have made an underpass? None. Do you know when he would build a bridge over Ada? Well, the bridge over Ade on the way from Verchin from his house, and it would end up somewhere where there's a cottage. That's how you care about taxpayers' money, and that's how you replace the thesis. Do you want me to ask you how many profiler agencies could make these overpasses for a profit that has increased since you've been in power for a year?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28356	Comrade Milivoevich, could we stick to the agenda? It's interesting and useful, but it's not that point. I have one more question. Are you saying this as a replica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28357	I'm speaking by amendment. So, for the sake of the citizens, I read this amendment again for the public. ‘After issuing a licence for the use of the Structural Subsystems, the Directorate shall continuously verify the infrastructure in terms of issuing and controlling compliance with the safety certification requirements. “ You who care about the citizens, what will you tell the citizens of Batajnica, where it was intended to secure and provide an emergency crossing by means of an emergency procedure? Do you know how many votes you got in Batajnica? Do you think you'll get them again? Well, you won't. Now Simina Street will vote for power. That's where Sima's father and mother and brother and family live, and I don't know who's there. None of your people live in Batajnica. It's probably where some Martians live and they're crossing the track without the rotational lights and they can't stop a train like Alexander Vukic. What are you going to tell the citizens of Batajnica the next day, why didn't you direct the money there? What are you going to tell Sima to tell the D.A. when the D.A. calls him? Will you tell him to defend himself with silence? Well, that's your model. Whenever faced with arguments and facts, you defend yourself by silentness, by replacing thesis or by attacking Dragan Gilas. The attack on Dragan Gilas is the answer to every abuse of you that we point to. But, you know, it goes to the Cossack Assembly. This isn't a goat congregation. I don't expect answers from you, but I expect from the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28358	Mr. Lapcevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28359	With all the difference between us and DSS, I can really fully support what Mr. Milivojevic was saying. It was really interesting to hear who was the one who set the priority in providing some spring crossings and based on which criteria. We had a situation two months ago that this same director of Railways was staying in Nis for a certain holiday, talked to people and noted that solving the security problem of the train crossing the City of Nis and crossing some ten places with roads and moving the railway from Nis is not the priority of Railways and that, as far as it is concerned, it will not be soon. Now how does it turn out that priority is exactly that line crossing in his place? On the basis of which criteria determine what is the priority and are the lives of people living in Vrčino, children and passengers more important than some other parts of the country? Who can determine if the safety of people in Vrčino is more endangered than those living in Nis? I don't suppose I should remind you that in the last 50 years, in an unsecured and secure spring crossing through the city of Nis and its surroundings, 150 people have died? Will someone be responsible for that? By considering aspects of this law, of course we are all in favour of interoperability and all items related to the safety of rail traffic being at the highest level. One of the members of the law is saying that all line crossings should be secured, that there are different crossing levels, but that in any case, there should be as much denivellation of the rail or at least an electronic and automatic descent of the ramps. Let's see who's funding it. If financed by the Railways, who has given Mr Simonovic the right to set priorities beyond any professional rules? If the ministry is involved in this job, then I suppose that you, Minister, should have an answer to this question on which priorities will be worked and on what criteria to give, if this is the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and if you are the Minister of Transport, all Serbian citizens have equal conditions to be able to move safely on their roads and crossings with the railways, not to experience traffic accidents and, God forbid, to die and to make these criteria transparent, public, clear and that everyone feels equally protected, not only to be protected citizens of Batajnica, Vrčina, against whom, of course, I have nothing. And they should be completely safe, but let's have some kind of uniform relationship with everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28360	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28361	I'm sorry, Mr. Babic. I didn't realize he answered. I can wait until the cycle of polemics is over and then I can answer. Can you do that?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28362	The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28363	Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28364	Excuse me, is that a replica or an amendment? I need to know.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28365	Anyway, just tell me how much time I have.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28366	No, you plead please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28367	Make it a replica. Since we've received the epithet of the Cossacks, I'm kind of more comfortable with Huni that whip of God, Attila has always been more fond of him, it's not questionable. It's gonna take me a long time. Maybe I'll get that nickname, too. Big and heavy things happen on railways everywhere in the world and in Serbia. I'm solidarity with all the people who've had accidents at the crossing points. Not everyone's secure. Not everyone's good. It happens and there will be sad and bad things happening at the crossing points. We've read a lot in the past. We need to work harder and better and faster. Will you bear the consequences and say if that railway is not done in Vrčino, and someone may be killed in three, five, ten days, will the director of the Railway be responsible and if he does and if he does not? Yeah, he'll be responsible. There's got to be something to do. Can it be done everywhere in Serbia all at once? He can't. It's not real. But it's got to go somewhere. You know what moving is? The movement is when, for example, in 2011, none in Belgrade is done by a railway crossing. Not one, I repeat, because the mayor is more concerned about his firm, the 38 billion dinars, than about doing it. Now the problem is that 10 will be done in Zemun, Batajnica, Sremčica, Rakovica, Resnik, Vrčino and Lazarjevac. Ten against zero, as it was before. Nineteenth and this will end, between the Sopot of the Cosmajite and the Kovačica nine and between the Little Cross and the Great Plan 19. Compared to zero how much it's done, but you know what, 38 billion was better off being in a bank account, it's better to earn a private company than security. It's not good, it's got to go somewhere, and it takes time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28368	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28369	I'd just like to remind my fellow MPs and the general public where we're meeting with this session right now. So, the amendment to Article 22, which was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic, who says, in Article 22, paragraph 4 after the words "two months" change with the words "60 days", and the government accepted this amendment. I thank the applicants of the amendment for the fact that this law looks and seems more serious, but I urge them to return to the law. This assembly I was a member of until two months ago and a few months ago has two institutions. Every Tuesday, the possibility of asking questions and getting notices and every last Thursday of the month asking questions. You have absolutely a lot of options when you can ask questions to the government, ministers, prime minister, so let's go back to having such questions as Mr Milivojevic had asked when it was time. Not on an amendment that's been accepted and that's really dealing with a whole other topic. I repeat, now I'm going to jump off the subject, but for the public's sake. We have about 2,100 and several road crossings in Serbia. Of them, slightly less than 500 are secured by denivellation or defense, or semi-defenders. The others are also marked and run as road crossings that are safe because they have a certain signalling depending on the road crossings. Unfortunately, we as a state and society cannot be satisfied with a road crossing marked by a sign – stop, although it is a protection, although it is a security. I also said that at a plenary session, that is, when we were in principle considering the law that the ministry would particularly deal with these road crossings. At the very end, let us not recalculate anyone's money into a road crossing or any lunch road crossing, let us be responsible, let us solve these road crossings. It is good that "The Railway" and this leadership "The Railway" want to deal with this problem, as was good that the previous leadership of "The Railways" solved both such problems and solved as much as in the previous term of the 10-fold crossings. It was also resolved when Mr. Markovic was director of "The Railway". I repeat, I told Mr. Simonovic, that I think that the road crossing to Vrčino is to be solved, there are some people living there, there are some children every day at risk. That's what needs to be secured. It's precisely because of these polemics in public that I asked it not to be in this first priority, but let's solve these several bigger problems, put this into another priority and solve it as such. I repeat, citizens of Greece cannot be disproved because of the fact that Mr. Simonovic is headed by "The Railways" from the Municipality of Grock. Just as the citizens of Nis can't be disabled because the director of Railways is not from Nis. Let's bring the whole thing to some level of objectivity and don't politicize every segment of life in our country. Simply, I became allergic to politicizing every possible and impossible situation in Serbia. I repeat, people, give and there live some people, and there are some children and those children who deserve to have a better organised road crossing and that will be the policy of this ministry, to try along with the Railways to make a list of priorities. It's not in my ministry's job description, it's a railroad job. They define their priorities, but through government policy, by giving consent to business programmes and so forth. We will influence these priorities to be truly high-quality.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28370	Mr. Milivoevich, on what grounds? Milan Lapcevic, a replica, probably? Here you go, Mr. Lapcitza.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28371	Just for a little while. No one here, at least I haven't politicized the situation, or said anything about whether he's from this party or from that party. I'm glad we won't be disabled by not having a director of the Railways or some minister who'll pull the story each and every one of us for his place. I believe that the criteria will be objective and that we will come up with legal priorities, but I have just asked you what criteria they are, how they will be determined and which is an independent expert commission that will say – this is the first degree of priority we will do protection there, we will do an overpass, because there are so many trains passing through, so many cars, so many pedestrians, so many people have been at risk so far, so it's a priority. No one attacks the citizens of Grocke because their fellow citizen is the director of the Railways, so now they need to be disabled for it and not have protection. But let's make these objective criteria, so maybe someone from Batajnica is more threatened than that from Groca or some other part of the country, from Kladov, from Negotina, doesn't matter. I support that story of yours just so we can see it in action. How it's going to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28372	Minister Antic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28373	Above all, the safety and resolution priorities of these road crossings are related to the level and categorization of the railway itself. So the first priority is, of course, corridors and those freeways. In a particular case, because of the public, that direction that passes through Vrchin is heading towards Nis. That's Corridor 10. It is the categorization of the first degree that must be provided either by denivellation or by means of a road crossing with a semi-define and full light signalling. I repeat, in a situation where we have hundreds of such cases, it's difficult to be objective. These are all priorities that need to be addressed, but that is exactly why this whole business needs to be approached the following way. When in line with the reconstruction of the railway, we close the railway and do a serious reconstruction then we need to solve the road crossings. We have this section of the railroad, here's Mr. Angelkovic, I think it's IBRD 5, that this railroad should be reconstructed for example. During 2015, according to some plans and programmes of the Railways, and I think it is the right time, when the railway is closed and when some serious reconstructions of the railway are carried out, to do the road crossing. When it comes to Nis, you know the whole problem, and last time we talked about her. I'll repeat what I said and then. It is not a question of Serbia's railway that will go through or around the city of Nis. It is a question of the development of the Republic of Serbia. It is a question of which we will decide together with the Ministry of Spatial Planning and the Ministry of Transport and the City of Nis. That's why we got funds from the EU. That's why we're doing the study, and let the experts tell us what's best and what's the best solution. Don't let us make this decision again politically and assess with the strength of political votes what is the most qualitative traffic solution, but let them do it really the most quality traffic experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28374	By amendment Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28375	I would have ended up around this Article 22 by finding that we obviously failed to agree and agree whether this was really necessary, given that there is another roundabout that is not provided properly. But just so there's no doubt left. If the wise man doesn't teach the ignorant, he's done double damage. First, he humiliated his own reputation and the reputation of the institution he represents, and secondly, he encouraged the ignorant to continue to do what he already does. That is why you must understand that the opposition has the right, with this wise man I do not understand myself, to criticise the government because the government has said that it will correct the old mistakes and indeed these mistakes are no longer old and look like new ones. We don't live in a time of self-government socialism. We live at a time when there is once again the possibility that something is planned, when there are some democratic institutions, democratic fluids, after all, when there is a budget planned for the current year, and whose accidental spending is a criminal offence, and this serious crime, which is why you have sent more than 10 people from the DS, both guilty and debtors, into custody, and then more quickly released from the same detention. The truth is, I can only now see how you plan to lead the city of Belgrade. The City of Belgrade cannot determine where the crossing points will be made. It's not in the city's jurisdiction. You have to ask Nebojsa Covic and Mr. Small, so when they grow up like Gilas, then they'll know how to make spring crossings. On the other hand, if you're telling us that this is the need of the citizens of Vrčina, why wasn't the need envisaged by the plan and the budget? The next day, we will be assured that the needs of the citizens of Bajcetina were an observatory or an airport, so you will be building an observatory or an airport from the RS budget, to see how high you are in the stars. We'll look at the free fall with our naked eye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28376	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28377	Defacto, obviously I accidentally pressed the button. I repeat, this road crossing isn't working. What I said today, I spoke to the director of the Railways, he won't be working before the construction of the railroad is done on the basis of the IBRD 5 loan. I don't think we're wasting any energy. I really think we should go back to this topic and end this set of bickering because there's an amendment ahead of us to Article 23 and let's get over it at last.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28378	I ask all MPs to return to the topic. I'll read about the amendment, and you'll find out if we're even talking about that amendment. He's still accepted. So I have to give myself an excuse not to let myself talk off topic anymore. The authorisation to use shall be issued within two months, and this shall be accepted at 60 days from the date of submission of the application accompanied by the prescribed documentation, except in cases where this law provides for a different period of time. As long as we're talking about this, I don't know how to connect to the license. Please move on to the amendment. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28379	Article 107(1) I'll take Mr. Secretary's suggestion and I think it's time to talk about the amendments and the agenda. But what I must point out is that every MP of the people cannot and must not address another MP, but the chairman or minister who is here. The speaker, and you didn't warn him, Mr. Chairman, told you that you arrested people, that you let them go. I don't know if you accept something like that on your account. I wouldn't accept especially who can prosecute, who can arrest, who can judge. It's not this Assembly. It certainly is not, neither of us and therefore I ask you to make such difficult connotations, to turn this Assembly into a courtroom, and to turn us into prosecutors, lawyers or whatever, and to turn you into something outside the Constitution, beyond the framework and the Rules of Procedure and all that, to sanction and warn us in the future that not all of us MPs here would expose us to the inconveniences.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28380	I willingly accept to be the victim of everything I need because my conscience is calm and everyone knows I haven't arrested anyone. If you need to talk to someone, feel free to talk to me. I'll take all the blows, but don't fight with each other. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28381	I'd like this member to be the 27th member of the session. Mr. Chairman, at no time, as you know, and so do I, I have not spoken to you, because both the citizens of Serbia and I and everyone in the room know who in this country is arresting, who judges, who is a lawyer, prosecutor, that's one man, Alexander Vukic. He's gone in the O.R., and I wasn't really talking to him, and I wasn't talking to you. I was talking to the SNS. If someone considers themselves a personification of the SNS and wants to prevent us from speaking to the SNS, then I'm going to ask that we hang here a picture of the President of the Republic, as it does in Zrenjanin, so I'm going to go to photography.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28382	Mr. Milivojevic, you understood what Babic was trying to say. He knows well, and I understand him. I have to say it again because you said it like that. According to the Rules of Procedure, it is otherwise not allowed to address MPs directly, it is not allowed to speak offensively about parties, it is not offensive in that regard. Clearly, I was just a personification of what needs to be done in the Assembly. Zoran Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28383	Mr. Chairman, Article 107. You've had to stop again and punish the speaker who alarms the public, telling the truth. Mr. Aleksandar Vukic is responsible for doing the job of the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in the frameworks defined by the law, which define the Constitution of this country and for the first time that a Government of the Republic of Serbia respects the law and its frameworks. I can understand that someone has been sneezed, that someone has lost their benefits, that someone can't make as much as six, seven, eight billion dinars a year, while he's a minister or mayor. I can understand it, there's no benefits, there's no cabinets, there's no wealth. There are no authorities in Subotica, there is no support in Vojvodina, there is no support in Belgrade, there is no support in Serbia. [[President: I understand you, but do not go in replica.]] I can understand that, frustration. I cannot support the hatred that comes from this side, but I ask you, Mr. Chairman, to interrupt anyone who alerts the public by mixing facts, using the truth, and thus by lying to the party and the president of Mr. Alexander Vukic, who is trying, together with all of us, of course, to build a country of safe and strong institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28384	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't think I'd answer because this just confirms that principle debate, when I spoke here how important it was for us to complete the restructuring of the "Serb Railway" and to implement the Law on Railways, that the infrastructure or railways of Serbia, to be called, would be a separate company, and that would mean that the business plan "Serb Railway" in five years, not an annual plan, because there are no serious railways in the world that do not have a five-year or six-year plan, adopts this parliament. Thus, in the future, when the restructuring is completed and the "Serb Railway" has infrastructure as a special enterprise, a business plan, which means the railways will be repaired, which will be built, which underpasses, will be adopted by MPs based on the Serbian government's proposal. That's one thing. Secondly, for this amended business plan for 2013, members of the DS voted, and I did not. That's what you need to know when you're discussing the DS about. I'm not exactly because of these arguments of yours - that there has to be a plan of what the priority is, what are the priorities for the overpass, which for the underpass, which for the ramps. Otherwise, one ramp, just to tell you the number, costs 150,000 euros. The solution to one of the railway crossings is the most banignant way, setting up the ramp is 150,000 euros. A lower level of the railway crossing, it's mostly solved, to be honest, with the funds of the municipality and the railroad. The railroad works, and the municipalities finance. One project has now been done in Backo Topoli, several last year, in Triestenik and several places, where municipalities from their budget have provided funding for the railway crossing, while the railway works. The third thing is, yes, Mr. Antic is right, and this proposal could not pass unless the government adopts. Therefore, the government will not give consent, there will be a change of plans and this will be done, Serbia's participation in the Russian loan is EBRD 5, in the material, and there will be three shares to Nis and three from Nis to Presevo. So, six shares in 2014 or 2015 from the Russian loan, and as part of these, this line crossing is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28386	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 27th amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28387	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To remind fellow MPs and everyone else who sees this, we are in the Serbian Parliament and we are talking about amendments to the Railway Safety Act. Now that we've started the story, I have to ask a question to everyone who's been talking this much about spring crossings and the importance of the crossings. Of course, we of the DSS are fully aware of the importance of all this, and therefore, in Article 6, we have submitted one amendment that treats these spring crossings as infrastructure and takes care of them and how. We're aware of how many there are, and how many of them we've finished so far, I'm talking in plural because we're a country that should be together with water taking care of what it does and what its priorities are. On the other hand, I expect that we will vote for the DSS amendment to Article 6, because, as far as I can see, you all support this amendment and it would be good to talk about it. Then, when it comes to security and when the question is asked to start building underpasses and line crossings, so go ahead from Valev, if you can't agree, I'm going to suggest that it be Valjevo, because here is obviously the principle – we don't have priorities, but are priorities where we are and where we are from. The third thing I'd also be talking about safety, the minister's getting away with it again, and last time I said the same thing,... . (Alexander Antiquic: I'm here, I'm listening.) )......................................................................................................... One of the most important things about security within this complicated system is internal control, and at the head of our internal control right now is the man who's a plasterer. Now on the amendment to Article 27. Otherwise, Article 27 refers to additional vehicle use permits. The last position of the 11th is now in the proposed law: “If the Directorate does not decide to issue a licence for use within the time limit set out in Article 10, the vehicle will be deemed to have been authorised to use after three months of the expiry of that deadline. This vehicle may only be used on the network specified in the licence application. “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” We're talking about security, and we're all talking about security and the job of the Directorate is to take care of it by controlling the vehicles and assessing whether or not I can get my licenses, and we're talking about that, if the Directorate doesn't issue a permit, the vehicle can be found in the network. Are we serious enough to show that this vehicle is safe? I can't accept the silence of the administration, we accept it as the work of the administration. This government, as one of the principles of its work and its activities, has stated that the administration will do its job, that institutions will do their work quickly, and now we tell them that you don't have to do your job, the Directorate doesn't have to do its job, so if it doesn't do it within that time limit, it will be understood that this job is done. This is about a very important security matter. I just can't accept that the Directorate doesn't have jurisdiction and there's no requirement for her to do her job, because it's about vehicle safety. We all know with what kind of vehicle and how old our locomotives and cars are and everything else. I think it's very important that we talk about this openly and I ask you, MPs, to support this amendment, because I think this is what we're doing to the security of this system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28388	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted to Article 33 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28389	This article discusses different situations where the Directorate shall withdraw the authorisation to use, provided that supervision of railway and operator safety management systems or upon application of a Republic inspector is established by different irregularities. Therefore, there is talk of confiscation or suspension for the use of vehicles in rail traffic. In particular, our amendment refers to paragraph 5, which reads: “The license to use becomes invalid if the railway vehicle is withdrawn from traffic,” and then we have a bracket: “Vehicle cassation and the like”. So, if the vehicle was pulled out of traffic. What are we doing here? We are practically asking to add that special records will be kept, that is, that the Directorate should keep records of which vehicles have been withdrawn from traffic. You replied to me that it was regulated by Article 22(7) to keep records of it. That's not exactly what I saw in that article, and I don't see a reason why this attitude wouldn't be about keeping a record of it. The second part of this amendment has to do with deadlines again. You're here to tell me that the vehicle owner's withdrawal from traffic informs the Directorate without delay, and then you say that without delay it can last even eight days. If you say it without delay, it's like saying it right now. Right now in my weather system, it doesn't mean eight days. So, eight days isn't right now, and we've suggested that those eight days be reduced to 48 hours, not days, but 48 hours. I don't see what's controversial about the Directorate being notified of the withdrawal of some vehicles from traffic within practically two days.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28390	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted to the 34th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament of 34 are national registers of railway vehicles and you say in the first position – The Directorate is run by the National Railway Vehicle Register. Great. But how does he lead it? You don't tell us, so we say. The fact that we thought it was necessary to enter it in electronic form, you know why we brought it in? Because in other laws it is also because it is a matter that needs to be introduced into the law in order to be clear. What is even more important to us, this is in paragraph 6: “The vehicle holder shall without delay report any changes of the data entered into the National Register of Railway Vehicles, the destruction of the vehicle or its decision to suspend the registration of the vehicle. ” Let's stick to this one that he reports his decision to suspend registration of the vehicle and the term that you put here: "no delays". I think when you put a term like this: "no delays", it can be interpreted differently. I'm not sure that "without delay" means the same to me as Mr. Angelkovic, who listens to me. Simply, if you say - without delay is within one hour, without delay is within 24 hours, without delay within seven days and however you wish to interpret it, but you must put a deadline on what it means for you "without delay", so that we do not interpret the laws. The main problem at all in the application of our laws is that they need to be interpreted. There's no need to interpret it if you write exactly what you're saying. That's why our intervention in that direction is very clear. We want it to be in 24 hours. It's a reasonable deadline. Because if within 24 hours you do not report your decision to stop registration of the vehicle, it may occur that such a vehicle appears in the system, because the one who should have done so “without delay” understood as 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28392	Anyone else want a word? The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28393	Regarding the way the National Register of Railway Vehicles is run, there is a universal software that applies to all of Europe and, of course, it is about electronic management, but in addition to that electronic water and in written form. If we narrowed it down the way you suggest, we would lose that segment in writing. So, being run in electronic form, that's understood. I have to tell you, I don't even have a very good answer for you why in law we have a formulation - without delay. I would remind you that these laws entered the procedure during the spring and summer before I was elected minister and I am now defending them in the form in which I found them. I personally have a similar attitude to the wording "no delay" as you do. I'd rather she was kind of dimensional in some hours or days. We'll see how we get past that problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28394	Thank you. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28395	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, it's very clear, if you and I have the same approach to this formulation, then accept the amendment and then we're both winning and you and me and the law. As for keeping records in our home by written means, but it is good to keep it in electronic form and that it is something that is natural in EU countries, and we are trying to get close to the standard, it is very simple to add just one more vote, that is another letter "and". You can say that it's also run in electronic form. Of course, it is not our goal to destroy the way in which we keep the records written, but simply to keep the law in order to keep it this way. This means that if you do not have a regulation to run in electronic form, it is not obliged to run it that way, and we are trying to lead it to be obliged to lead it in this form as well. That's the difference between what you and I are saying. I'm saying we're looking for an obligation in law, not a good will to the one who runs the register. I think it's better to keep the wording in the law, because then there's the obligation of one who's supposed to run the register. This way, I'm not sure everyone will be in a good mood to run it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28396	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28397	I repeat, we are running the National Railway Vehicle Register in electronic form, and that is our obligation under the international acts that we have adopted and not even the very formulation to run the National Railway Vehicle Register, it did not have to be found in law because it implies itself, as is understood, and that it is conducted in electronic form. I repeat, your amendment would only rule out the option we have at this point to lead it in writing. When it comes to without delay and for 24 hours, it simply could not be accepted because, as the experts for the procedure have informed me, we are unable to accept part of the amendment, and part of the amendment to reject and that is the only reason why the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28398	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28399	The minister sort of explained, but we're leaving, this law based on which the Railways Directorate is making its orders and its regulations. Of course, the railway itself, has its own regulations and commands that contain this, but it is quite certain that in the Regulation of the Railway Directorate, what you say is sacred and it is sacred, not only for the "railway" of Serbia, but for all the railway administrations that get the license, and there are more companies in Karg that already have a license in Serbia, and independent of having no driving lines.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28400	The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28401	I could accept what Mr. Minister said, I simply know that part of the amendment cannot be accepted, of course, essentially this part of the amendment can be proposed by the Committee, at this point, but never mind, it doesn't matter. On the other hand, whether it's in the rule book or it's in the law, it's very different and I insist that it should be written in the law, because it's a much higher legal act and it obliges and that's why I insist on it. I can accept that you won't accept it, but don't bring it into two levels. These two things aren't straight and they can't be flat.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28402	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28403	It's not about the regulation, I repeat, we're keeping track of the International Convention that has been ratified in this assembly. That's exactly what you're proposing with the amendment, so I think at this point we're wasting our energy, you and I.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28404	Just to make it clear, Mrs. Vojic Markovic has replicated the exposure of Angelkovic. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the board of directors have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted together to Article 37 of the amendment. The government and the board of directors have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28405	Mr. Minister, I risk being boring, how many times we're gonna answer, but simply, we needed to work and intervene on those things that are problematic in the DSS law. It's chapter Five, safety management in rail traffic, and the title is guaranteeing safety in rail traffic. It stands like this – the Ministry, the Directorate will manage a railway undertaking each in accordance with the tasks it performs, guarantee that safety of rail traffic in the railway system is preserved and where it is justified to continuously improve, where priority is given to preventing the accident. The formulation was a little problematic and we intervened a little in this way. So, the advantage is the safety of the transport of passengers and goods to prevent accidents. Then it says that safety regulations are applied transparently and non-discriminatoryly, and that is why the next thing is to accelerate the development of a single rail system which is fine. But I'm undermining this point 2 that security regulations are applied transparently and non-discriminatoryly precisely because of what we talked about today for almost half an hour and we've spent a lot of words about it, and it's written in the law, and it's about these spring crossings that are not built without priority.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28406	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28407	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. If anyone in this room didn't believe me that I was right, let them believe the law that he suggested. Therefore, Article 37 of the Law says that safety regulations are applied transparently and non-discriminatoryly. The construction of overpass across the border is certainly a security procedure for improving the safety of rail traffic and when Mr. Simonović, the CEO of the railway Serbia works and builds a railway crossing over the plan, past the budget, whether it works transparently or not, and whether it applies discrimination against the citizens of Batajnica or not? And are they in the same position with the citizens of Batajnica, the ones who were born in Vrčino? Are they privileged just because he's the CEO of Vrčin? Of course they did and of course they were born in Bajcetina like Tomislav Nikolic and if there was no railway and there they would only make an overpass for the crossing, only if they wanted to and can do so one irresponsible way how this government actually behaves. That's what I just tried to say. When you call for freedom of choice, the first thing you do is take responsibility. Freedom means one ethical moment, one moral moment, one act of conscience first and foremost towards itself, and then according to the property that you are entrusted with, and then to the people you care about. If you don't have that order, if you don't have that order in your political functioning, if you experience that freedom, then exercise discrimination against the law. Then there's no transparency in performing safety work and then there's no single rail system. Then there shouldn't actually be such a director of the Railways or such a party in power. These are all the logical consequences of your actions. I'm sorry this isn't touching you, that you've been caught for the hundredth time, for a million times not with your hands up to your elbows in a jam, but you've also pushed your head into a jar of jam and then you've been caught by citizens and journalists and the democratic public. But that haughtiness and passion that shines out of you simply does not allow you to bear the burden of responsibility and simply that heavy burden of responsibility, which you have put on your shoulders, shows that you are immature to deal with. I underline whether or not discrimination is due to the fact that the Director-General was born in Vrčin was given an overpass beyond the budget, and that someone who is scheduled by plan and budget has to wait until all the facilities in Vrčin, Gročina, Bajcetina, are completed, in order where everyone does not think to work past the plan, past the programme, past the budget as they wish in accordance with their own responsibility, which implies, first of all, the obvious privileges, and not the responsibility. This will end, exercise of power, conduct of public affairs, and learn about this once and for all from us from the DS, primarily implies responsibility for the citizens, to the state, to the future, and no privilege. Unfortunately, you have reduced the exercise of authority exclusively to the privileges and abuses of these privileges. It is very bad and there is no law that will come to the agenda, which will not give us the opportunity to point that out to you and to tell you about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28408	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28409	I would also like to thank Mrs. Milic Vojic Markovic and Mrs. Donki Banovic for this whole effort to further adjust and make this law more functional. I must say, there is exactly the whole law in the spirit of this amendment of yours, which, unfortunately, we have not accepted for the reason that you, through this amendment, introduce the word "safety," and the matter of the law is security. Security draws on the "seft" and that's what the legislator does. Security on "securing", that's what the legislator doesn't even deal with in this law, so I understand what you wanted with this amendment. It's the spirit of the law, but I ask you to stick to the word "security", because the word "security" simply cannot find a place in this law, because no matter how much it sounds like to all of us, it's a drastic difference and it's simply not something we can do in law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28410	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. After him, the word has Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28411	I can accept the fact that that underpass in Vrčino was supposed to be working before or should have been in Nis or Kruševec or anywhere. There are many places to do this in Serbia, and I can accept that. I can't accept a replacement of thesis. I cannot accept a substitute for the thesis that it is a top priority to do the underpass in the part of the city where you live in relation to the supreme privilege of turning an anonymous company into a billionaire firm from the moment you became a minister or mayor of Belgrade. It's a top priority. That doesn't have to catch the democratic public in it. There is a report in the APR, so it's nice to Google the APR, so it's nice to get into the APR, so there's only one firm, Dragan Gilas, using a top-notch privilege, has earned from the moment, a symptomatic moment, I don't have anything against people who do, do, earn, where happiness is that there are far more wealthy people in Serbia, that ever since you became a minister, when you became someone and something in this Serbia, when you reached these top privileges, as mayor of Belgrade, you've suddenly earned 38 billion dinars. Now 38 billion dinar's income is forgotten and it's not a top priority, but it's a top priority underpass. For those 38 billion, Minister, you still haven't answered how many underpasses in Serbia we could do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28412	The word is by MP Milica Vojić Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28413	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really need to call on Article 107. Today we have an exact law on the agenda, my colleague Donka Banovic and I have written amendments to that law exactly, and today we expect to speak precisely about this law, because we see a minister who is authorized to do so. I'd like our colleagues to write amendments if they wanted to speak beyond what we had on the agenda today, because then we're putting everything we've done in a position that doesn't matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28414	Mrs. Vojić Markovic, I fully support you, I think you're absolutely right. I will try to bring the MPs into the agenda. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28415	What a distinguished colleague brought out several times I've said it. Out of respect for all those MPs who have taken full care of the adoption of these legal solutions, the preparation of amendments, their arguments, persistently defending them here, I will only question questions related to the matter of the law. All other topics, until the end of the session of these laws, I will not treat, I will not answer, except in the days that are scheduled for it. I won't be able to tell you today, Mr. Babic, what 38 billion is with 150,000 euros, what it costs you to cross the road.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28416	The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28417	You should've given me your word right away, and Mr. Babic, who talked about some other things, said after. Well, this is a replica, but it is a replica of the ministers' comment that the law cannot say "safety of transportation of passengers and goods and prevention of accidents". [[Zoran Babic, from the place: It was a replica.]] “If we had used the word "security" instead of the word "security", would you have accepted the amendment? Then you told us two English words, I think, safety and security, which has shown, which is sometimes normal, that translation and use of certain parts... It's okay because this is a alignment, so it translates different parts of certain laws, directives, etc. However, these two words are not so opposed to each other, and the word security, or security, cannot mean the same thing as safety. It's not 100% synonymy, but there's a partial overlap. I am sorry that you have used this as an argument to reject this amendment, that safety in the law that speaks of safety and interoperability and where the word "security" is mentioned probably one thousand times, you now believe that the word "safety of transportation of passengers and goods" does not have any touch points with the words "safety of transport of passengers and goods". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28418	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28419	I'll use the time for the amendment, and within that time, I'll speak for the replica. I again call on a member of the law, which says in Section 2 that security regulations are applied transparently and non-discriminatoryly. We've come from a short-lived step towards self-government socialism to a slave-ownership society. You know, there's no public property of the Republic of Serbia, no one's private property, so let him say I'm going to build in my village now, and I'm not going to build in someone else's. That awareness of you, ladies and gentlemen of the elderly, must exist. You don't have private property here. Sima from Vrčin did not open his own wallet, so he made his own money underpass, but took the money from the republican register, from the public company's register, and for this he had no consent in the budget and thus committed a criminal act and conducted discrimination against other parts of Serbia who do not have the honour and pleasure of living in their place someone who discovered the truffles in the 50th year. That's a big difference. This isn't about using private money. We're talking about the way state money is spent. That persistent calling of Dragan Gilas, so was he the president of the nine states where he owned his own company? It's not. Did Slovakia have executive power in its hands in Czech Republic? It's not. That's where he increased his capital. He's in nine states doing business. A much bigger question is how did the anonymous company "Profijler" increase its assets 37 times and works only in Belgrade and once had only one employee named Aleksandar Vukic? There's no answer. Then you get out of the O.R. when those questions are asked, then you take a break to get someone to wash with cold water and to regain consciousness...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28420	Mr. Milivoevich, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28421	So, I'm finishing up...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28422	You're not finished.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28423	Here's the end, one more sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28424	I want to say something. Please, I don't want to warn you anymore. I won't let you in the future. You're now politicizing the law. I know your need, but I think there must be some measure, there must be some measure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28425	I will have the measure, the measure will be the time available to the Democratic Party. I'll tell you one thing. We have a situation here that safety regulations are not applied transparently, that they are applied discriminatoryly at the moment, that it does not accelerate the development of a single rail system and that according to the budget, according to taxpayers' money, it is available as according to the Alajbeg straw, as if it were the personal property of a political party, one man who makes what no one has ever done with state money – makes his own debt for the lives of taxpayers' money. We from the DS, against that kind of behavior, can't keep our mouth shut. I'm sorry, you DSS colleagues have been preparing for the amendments, I'm done. So, we won't keep our mouths shut, we'll point. Now we're going to go along with the other amendments, so when we get to a similar amendment, we're going to point out again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28426	The 38th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28427	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 38 is a common safety indicator. In point 2 you say the following thing which is why we intervene: "To allow an assessment of the achievement of common safety objectives and to enable the monitoring of the general development of safety on the railways, the Directorate collects information through annual safety reports of the controllers and railway undertakings. “ Since we really have something that we are not satisfied with, which is the following data – that we have only 32.7% of the rail, only 7% of the rail or 276 km has two tracks, only 45% of the track has a maximum axle load of 22.5 tonnes, while at 30% of the rail line is below 16 tonnes, the permitted speed crosses 100 km to only 3.2% of the track, the largest section of the track, about 50%, has a maximum speed of up to 60 km, and 16% of the track has up to 30 km, there are 320 seats in total length of 535 km, which represent the points where you drive up to 30 km per hour. We have the following information that we have about 480 locomotives, 8.5,000 freight cars and 550 passenger cars that are all over the age of 30. We have data that, say, the train fell off the rails in Rakovica, even though it's a 20-mile limit. Why am I saying this? Our poverty is generally at stake, and we need to take care of our system. Our system is like that. That's why we think it's much smarter to work at least for the first few years with half-yearly reports. We will not dramatically increase the capacity of our system, nor the security of our system, and we must take care of every passing month. That's why we think it's much smarter to work with half-year security reports. Furthermore, in its third position, the operator and the railway undertaking are obliged to submit an annual safety report to the Directorate for the previous calendar year by 30 June each year at the latest. It is again our intervention in this direction that twice a year delivers the report, so in addition to June 30th, we predicted December 30th. We think we need our system. Why? I just said, the capacity and quality of our system is what it is. Secondly, the only thing we have as an advantage and what we have at our disposal and what we need to improve is our human potential, so those people who work on the railroad. So let's raise it all to a much higher level and get out of these people the maximum we can, because obviously we can't rely on infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28428	National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 38th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28429	This is again on track for previous discussions, and it is the same member, where instead of one year's reporting, we propose that it be reporting twice a year, precisely because of the situation in which the entire rail traffic in Serbia is located. Otherwise, this amendment refers to Article 9 which again speaks of regular reporting. This is about the Directorate and reporting to the Directorate. If new facts or errors are revealed following the submission of a report by the Railways Directorate, the Directorate is obliged to supplement or correct the first time, and no later than in the following year's report. The promoter, through this law, somehow wanted to say -- he could have said it before, but in case we put on some kind of the longest deadline, and that's the regular annual report. If you didn't think so, you'd just say - we'll put in the following annual report the observed changes or problems. You leave the door open again to complete or correct the first chance. What's the first chance? Revision of the annual report already submitted or what, don't I understand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28430	The 39th Amendment was submitted by the Government. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 41st amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 46th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted to the 48th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Milica Vojic Markovic submitted to Article 51 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28431	Thank you. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the title above article 51 is – The issue of a safety certificate for the management of railway infrastructure. In point 3 of this Article, the following point is added: ‘The safety certificate for the management of railway infrastructure shall be valid for five years’. For reasons that I mentioned earlier, not to repeat all of this, the age of our infrastructure, the state of our infrastructure, the rails, the vehicles and everything else, I think it is really necessary to shorten this deadline and to issue the certificate for three years. I think it's much more effective. That would raise the security of the entire system. I'm absolutely sure of it. I know it speeds up the whole story a little bit, that every three years it's a certification issue, but I mean when you have our situation in particular, and I'm instructed how many tracks we have, what condition they're in, how much percent we have electrified, how many two tracks there are, that I don't repeat it every time. You know it better than I do. I think it's very important then that we issue a certificate for three years, because then we take a lot more care of the security of the entire system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28432	National MP Donka Banovic submitted to the 51st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted together to Article 52 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted this amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has proposed amendments to the amendment to the same changes in Article. 54, 136 and 143. The Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Government has submitted to Article 55 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 56th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 61st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28433	Article 61 discusses the maintenance of energy subsystems. We have seen through this law that the law has very detailedly described various systems and subsystems. So this is about the power subsystem. Some other members are prescribed the conditions, but here they are talking about a certificate of compliance with the conditions laid down in Article 2 and that this certificate is issued by the Railways Directorate in the form of a solution, with a five-year period of validity. What do we propose with this amendment? We suggest that this certificate has a shorter duration, that it is not valid for five years, but that it is valid for three years, precisely because of the many problems that exist throughout the system, as well as in this energy subsystem. I suppose that's what you've been harmonising with certain directives and that's how it is in other European countries, but we think that at this point it's too long for that certificate to be valid for five years and that it should be valid for a maximum of three years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28434	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28435	This is the attitude of the Railways Directorate, not to comply with any European regulation, and three and five years are completely irrelevant because constant control of compliance with the requirements and permits can be taken after six months, so it is about as much as for the driver's license. You get it for 10, 20 years, but it can be taken after six months in accordance with the law that follows it, so I understand what your intensity is, but I repeat, three and five years are completely irrelevant because continuous monitoring of the fulfillment of the conditions is being carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28436	The 64th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28437	Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as you can see, we are persistent because we think we can really fix something in this law. In Article 64, which has the heading ‘Transport signalling, signals, signal markings on the track’, in paragraph 5, which reads as follows: ‘Signs and signalling marks shall indicate the dangers of a temporary character, especially those resulting from sudden damage to the track and temporary restrictions in the traffic ban. These signals and signals must be removed as soon as they stop the reasons for being set up" and now that we have read what we have written in our amendment, we may have been wrong, because we said it would be good for them to be removed within 24 hours because I have repeatedly experienced that they stand, although traffic normally takes place, that labels and signals stand by and that they represent something, even though they do not know what they represent and then represent only a real danger. That's why maybe what we wrote, I say, and it's not good, but I think we need to give some time and that deadline is rational 24 hours, to get all that out of there and get traffic released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28438	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28439	Dear colleague, the problem here is that this 24-hour deadline is too long and here I think we understand perfectly well – how do we respect this provision that writes in the law as soon as the reasons stop? We do not have the right or the possibility to allow slow and light signal driving on our slow tracks anyway, so it is necessary to remove these signs immediately. This 24-hour deadline is too long. It is necessary to insist on this legislative provision and to require all inspections that exercise control to literally insist on doing so as soon as the works are completed and remove the causes for which signal signs have been placed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28440	National MP Milan Lapčević submitted to the 91st amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 95th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28441	Thank you. I'd like to thank you for accepting the amendment and showing appreciation for the engineers. I also want to tell the engineers that we took care of their interests when we wrote the amendments, just to be heard. It's mostly about registers and exchanges of information, so we, it's in the law now, but that's meant for the engineer to have access to his data from the Directorate's and the employer's register, as well as the right to supply that information to him at the request. I guess that's been free by now. I don't believe you've been charging for this favor, but there's no burning that it stands in the law, that you'll be delivering the data without compensation, and you've accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28442	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28443	As my colleague said, of course, it hasn't been charged yet. You don't think you'd get the consent of the finance ministry to accept this amendment as some revenue for the Republic of Serbia? I'm just kidding. Of course, we agree, there is a need to take care of the rights of those people who live hard from that railway work in Serbia and this way should leave a trail and prevent perhaps some thought from being imposed in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-22-0.u28444	The 96th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 99th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 130 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 133 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 135 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 139 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 140 of the amendment, with correction, the Government submitted. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment with the correction. I find this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 145 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 147 of the amendment, with correction, the Government submitted. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 148 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 151 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted the title above Articles 152 and 152 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The government has tabled an amendment proposing that a new member of 154a be added after Article 154a. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Government has submitted to Article 156 of the amendment. The resolution committee has accepted the amendment. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) As we have completed our review of the amendments, I conclude the search of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 11th point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Completion of Public Roads Law. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Ivan Jovanovic, Srdjan Milivojevic and Milan Lapčević. You have received reports from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principled search, pursuant to Rule 157 of Rule 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a review of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Srdjan Milivojevic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Srdjan Milivojevic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 6 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Since we have completed a search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLEMENTS OF ASSESSMENT LAW. You have received amendments submitted by MP Stefan Miladanovic and the amendment of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 8th Amendment was submitted by the National MP Stefana Miladanovic. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MP Stefana Miladanovic submitted to the 44th amendment. The government and the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications have submitted an amendment to Article 61. The government has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) As we have completed the review of the amendments, I conclude the review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. After we've finished reviewing the details of all the bill's proposals, we're working on Tuesday at 10.00 hours.
