ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22231	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to hold the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 90 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 101 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly inform you that, apart from the representative of the promoter, Aleksandar Vukic, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Nikola Selakovic and the Minister of Justice and State Administration, they called for the session to be attended by Jovan Ćosic, head of the department of normative affairs, international co-operation in the Ministry of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, senior adviser at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic, Ivan Karic, Borisav Stefanović, Ljiljana Lučić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Dejan Nikolic, Gordana Comić, Vesna Kovac, Vladimir Ilic, Jelena Travar Miljević, Riza Halimi, Aleksandar Senić, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Bojan Đurić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Srdjan Milivojevic, as well as amendments to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to review the draft law in particular. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ivan Jovanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22232	Dear President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have submitted an amendment to Article 1 and other members amending this text of the law in the sense of eradicating the separation of the Ministry of Business and Finance. You, in the light of this law, have told the MPs that a grouping of jobs is being done to make the government more efficient, so that it works better in the future. We have essentially seen that this reconstruction is a simple colorful lie for the citizens. Why? Because if you wanted to group the ministries in the right way, you wouldn't have kept building roads in even three ministries, Mr Selakovic. Also, you would not separate competences from energy and mining in two ministries, and even less you would separate responsibilities from urban and spatial planning areas. It is clear that the more efficient work and grouping of jobs were not a motive to separate the economy and finance, and it is clear that the goal was to get Mladjan Dinkic kicked out of the government and more importantly to take over these portfolios. These days we have the right to act on how it will be independent experts, experts brought on by, and we will all be witnesses of how they will be spent over a few months until when you plan to call the elections. If that's not the case, then tell me that's not true. What also exposes this thing that you did with the Ministry of Economy and Finance is your campaign and last year when you suggested that these ministries join together. They were separated also by finance and economics, but then in a way, to confirm your demagogue story, you said that the number of ministries should be reduced, to make it less cost to the state and to reduce that number to 17. I'll remind you of earlier 2011 when you collected citizens' signatures to reduce the number of ministries to 12. Then you'd drill into your chest that your government would have 12 ministries and you'd abolish 70 unnecessary agencies. Today you suggest we increase that number of ministries by justifying this grouping of jobs. I ask you, Mr. Selakovic, when you were telling the truth last year, 2011 or today you're telling the truth to the citizens of Serbia? This untruth won't be able to cover itself for much longer with inscriptions in the tabloids of all sorts of big stories, romanticized biographies of people you bring to the head. Who will be responsible for the agricultural situation? Today you have protests from farmers, stopped by the police. You criticized that in earlier years. Who will be responsible, an expert from Yale or Alexander Vukic, and who is responsible for these things today? I asked you in the principle debate, you didn't give me an answer, how is it possible in 2013 to sell directly in a brother's contract or a friend's hotel in Kopalnik? A commercial facility for 30% of the price, as possible, 600 euros per square metre? Direct contract, commercial facility. It was never done in Serbia. You didn't explain why it was done, or who did it, or who was responsible, because the damage was done. You bought an object at a higher price than it was sold afterwards. We really don't care about the emotional relationship between you and your ministers with the customers, it really doesn't matter, but it's important that we know how to sell the Vrsak vineyards? There's a conspiracy of silence about it. I'm interested in why they're selling Vršački vineyards...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22233	Please stick to the agenda. You have the right to ask parliamentary questions for other days. This is about an amendment to Article 1 concerning the composition of ministries. Please, let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22234	Mr. Stefanovic, I'm talking about the state of business and finance. Today we're discussing the Ministry Act, we're talking about the separation of these two ministries, and if it's not part of the work of the Ministry of Industry, I don't know what it is. If this is how you want to silence the opposition, you can do it. You have this business opportunity and everything else, but I don't think it's right. This is the only place the opposition MPs can say what they think. I have the right to ask in the context of the debate why the privatisation of Vrsak vineyards was made in July of the month, that is, the tender opened in July of the month, 15 days when everyone is on vacations? Why is it privatised at that price to the only company that has made an adequate offer. The other day, the emperor said you had to remount Serbia because of the condition it is in, that you found it from us. In 2001, when Zoran Djindjic found the wreck from the country did not arrest the opposition, he did not muddle it through the tabloids, but faced all the problems and solved them. That's why you'll never be able to compare yourself to him or his politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22235	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22236	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I listened to my colleague. He's asking questions, but it seems to me that apart from these questions he's asked, the SNS will have to answer some questions that she's not responsible for, and these questions are next. The first is the privatisation of Sartida, where a billion euros in Sartida debt was written off, completely cleared of any debt and sold for 25m euros, about $34,35m. Banks that are now in liquidation and bankruptcy then asked the same Sartid for about $900m, while Sartid was literally donated. If it's already being asked about something that's been purchased, so it's sold at a lower price, it's meant to be privatisation, and in the privatisation contract you have a percentage of the investment to be made on an object considered privatised. This means how much will increase its market value and how much investment will be. If we can talk about the robberies of the century, and I'm going to be a little lighter, abuses in the exercise of power and legal frameworks, so that abuse is not processed before the law is the privatisation of "Sartida". Only the land that was then given, without the factory, without the power plant, cost more than that money we got when we privatized. So don't talk to us about how privatisation was done. We had a chance to see her. We also have today closed factories, closed plants, jobless workers, Serbia without production, and those who bought the same social property because of locations where they built residential buildings and sold at much higher prices. That was your privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22237	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22238	Mr. Arsic, you're obviously, as your campaign presidential candidate says, a man of the past. I asked you -- why is property, commercial property sold in Serbia today, at a triple price? Why wasn't it a tender, then a contract? Where is this contract and where are your terms? Where's the proof that he's going to build anything? I think you're trying to make a point of something that's no use to you at all. Sartid was a loser, everyone knows that. Why don't you sell it for one euro today? Why don't you bring US Steel back? You've been telling that story for years. The only privatisation that took place during the DS government was Sartid, of all 24 reportedly being questioned, only Sartid was privatised at DS times. In other cases, we were the opposition. Why aren't the others mentioned? What about the bus station in Novi Sad and the car transport that was sold also in Novi Sad? Why don't you talk about it? I think there must be some of your officials here, too. We can talk about it long and wide. I spoke in terms of this proposal, in terms of the proposal that you made last year, where you convinced all of us and Serbian citizens that the number of ministries, agencies should be reduced. In the end, you abolished the 70 you promised, six agencies, you had ministries of 17 and four offices. You're splitting them up again today, and they're supposed to be grouping jobs. Wait, I'm asking you again, did you lie last year or are you lying again today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22239	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22240	For the sake of truth and whether I am a man of the past, just to remind you that the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic "Sartid" bought for 240 million and one euro. He was paid that much, and we sold him to the same guy for 25 million euros. That's what I'm talking about. So, when it came to jobs, to stay at Sartid, it was paid 240 million and one euro and no one had anything against it. That's why nobody attacked you, not Mirko Cvetkovic, not anyone else, and now you're accusing us of paying for new jobs much more than you do. It's the other way around. Serbia needs to develop. You can't draw any investors aside without giving something, and we're fully aware of it, and you and I, some time through direct money, some time through the property. I'd be happy if we could get investors, give them both land and complete infrastructure and connections to the plumbing, sewers, electricity, just to hire people, just to hire them, not to fire them, as it was in your time. That's when people lost their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22241	The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22242	Thank you. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, would support my colleague Ivan Jovanovic's amendment, with the conclusion that only separation today, for example. The finance and economy ministries, and later, by explaining the amendment, I will come up with the essence of why I came forward under this amendment, shows what any reconstruction would have done in this way in every country in the world would mean the capitulation of one government and one policy. For six months, when it comes to finance and economy, you said here that all previous governments before you are guilty of poor conditions in the Serbian economy and of empty citizens' wallets. After that, six months we entered something that should be completed in early September to start "Farma 5" uninterrupted, which is a reality called "recreation". We're all getting paid by citizens who work here. Every morning, we greet ourselves in a store, on the street with neighbors and friends who are responsible for our work because we get 110,000 dinars a month, even though we're elected by the lists, it might be better if we were elected directly by those citizens. The greatest responsibility we need is to feel for the local community. The reconstruction and government that will be elected on Friday should bring names to this government, these ministries, and thus a separate Ministry of Finance and Economy, which it needs to perform miraculously in Serbia. I come from Vrsac where the miracle maker for the economy, Sasa Radulović, as the bankruptcy manager of Vrsačka brewery 90 days after the opening of bankruptcy failed to deliver a plan for the reorganisation of enterprises and that company, founded in 1702, to you ministers, as professor of national history, this should be very important, this is a national brand, "Vršačka brewery" was eventually sold for 5,000 euros with the capacity to produce 350,000 hectolitres of beer. Given that the result of this reconstruction is politically and in terms of responsibility for everything that is happening in this country today, that the state has stopped and that for this country that has stood up as a bankruptcy manager as of today, Alexander Vukic, there is no better evidence that man has privatised both the state and the government and the politics and the media and all the decisions in this country became its bankruptcy administrator by proposing a failed bankruptcy administrator as a finance and economy minister to rebirth in the Serbian economy. So please, perhaps under the impression of the tabloid, leave all this to Lazara Krstic. As a Vrscan, I have more confidence that Lazar Krstic will better lead both finance and economy. Save us from those experts we've been waiting for for six months, which in 90 days' time, the plan to reorganize a large company is unable to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22243	The word is by MP Zoran Babic, a replica on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22244	I respect the desire to prove a young colleague, but I also give a word of advice, in order to be serious, and I want him to become serious, a politician on the political scene of Serbia must serve facts, not insults, truths, not fiction, to stick to the agenda points, and today the point of the agenda is the law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act, not "Vršački Vineyards". As far as the SNS is concerned, we've heard only one argument today in one sentence that I can't link to reality at all, that the separation of the economy ministry and the finance ministry means the government's capitulation. Where, in what system, in which country did something like that happen? On the other hand, the SNS and our leader, Mr. Alexander Vucic, that concentration of power being respected, is constantly respected, demonstrated through this government reconstruction when he gave up the Ministry of Defence which he led incomparably better than all former defence ministers. Tabloid policymaking I showed you a few days ago, when in one influential daily newspaper I showed more texts from the opposition than from the authorities. That's how it's supposed to be for the media to be trusted. If you want to grow up, and I'm telling you again, I want you to succeed in it, you're using facts, you're using the truth, don't make it up, and what hurts you, young fellow, are the successes of this government, Mr. Alexander Vukic's successes, and you can't minimize that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22245	Replica, Ljuban Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22246	Thank you for your concern, Mr. Granny. I've grown up enough, I'm 192cm and I'm so happy. You haven't answered the most important question from my discussion. Now you're having a discussion on that tabloid and that reality show that you've turned this reconstruction into. I read to you that the man, who you will be separating from these ministries, I want to prevent that, as a Vrscanin, by amendment, is directly responsible for the state where Vršačka brewar is today, the man you choose as minister. You've been telling us here for six months that it's some kind of miracle worker and rescuer that's coming. I am now telling you, if this man's talent is measurable by what he did in Vrsac, that you had him in the government, that you remembered him a year ago, when the relations of the former and current SNS president were different, when Ivica Dacic was probably not the target of the SNS, maybe he wouldn't have recognized the importance of bringing a "Ethada" to Serbia. That's what I'm talking about. I gave you a concrete piece of information from my work, in which almost during the past minister, you put as a government official, now the Vrešački vineyards are almost not donated. You have a candidate for the minister in front of the SNS, a miracle worker, an expert, because Aleksandar Vucic, the bankruptcy manager of Serbia, restrained the SNS General Board, resisted the pressure not to bring party people into this government, but experts. You see, I am now specifically telling you, as someone from that city is coming, I drove here this morning by passing a column of dissatisfied farmers, which you also promised that in Serbia, your Serbia, that your SNS president, Alexander Vukic, would not be. It's been 90 days, the brewery was founded in 1702... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... It was sold for 5,000 euros. That's what I told you. With the support of this amendment, I want to prevent this man from being a minister, because I fear what will happen to this country's economy. It's like everything you've done for her in the past few years isn't enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22247	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22248	It is strange when columns of dissatisfied farmers are now seen, and they were not seen a year, two, three, when they blocked Belgrade's approach. It's strange to see columns of dissatisfaction now, and then, when those columns of dissatisfaction were beaten up by the previous government, it wasn't seen either. However, when hatred enters man, then the talker does not listen. I repeat, dear fellow, today we are discussing the law, amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. You'll have a chance to face your opinion of the future economy minister in the coming days, so he can answer you. It is extremely hypocritical to speak of a man who has not yet entered office and cannot face opinions, and you express attitudes that are highly untrue and hypocritical. As for this bankruptcy director of Serbia, then what will be called the former government of the Republic of Serbia, which from 14% of the unemployed in Serbia, Serbian citizens, lead to almost 27%? What's that? What will be the name of the former government in which the president of the same government said - we are statistically out of the crisis, but the citizens will not feel it? What are these people gonna call themselves? But I won't insult you. It's neither style, nor level, nor behavior, nor SNS policy. It will be assessed by Serbian citizens in the elections, in the elections where we are all measured, dear fellow. So, once again, we're talking about the Ministry Act today. Use those arguments. If you have something against the future Minister of Economy, face opinions in the coming days, and do not present such facts when man is not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22249	MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22250	I would return to the debate on the law on ministries and the amendment tabled by my colleague Jovanovic. I will address you, Minister, I think you must participate in this debate, not to leave it to your political party. I expected you to react when Mr. Babic commented on the years of his colleagues, Panic. Somehow, I'm counting on that kind of remark or criticism to apply to you, you have about the same age, to apply, say, to Mr. Vukic and his ministry in 1998, he was so old, to all of us. I don't think years are an argument. I also think that, no matter how much I disagree with this amendment to DS, I think Mr Panic is doing quite well and matures, let's say, much faster, better, more politely than Mr Arsic who started this discussion... (President: Do not insult Mr Djuric, do not make such arguments about other MPs and MPs. Stick to the agenda and talk about the Ministry Act, not about who's making progress. So it was a replica, you're talking about the amendment. If you want to talk about the amendment, then talk about what's on the agenda. I'm just analyzing Mr. Arsic's gravity of arguments. (President: Do not analyse the seriousness of the arguments, talk about the agenda. ) I find it very difficult to speak and assess the quality of the law proposed by the ruling coalition, if I do not analyse the quality of the arguments you present. So, Mr. Arsic, Mr. Selakovic, I am interested in your opinion, you are one of the legislators of this law, you create through the main policy, returning to the theme "Sartida". You are a representative of the government that sells, or makes a new arrangement for JAT. Let me tell you right now, I don't mind such an arrangement for JAT, as I didn't have anything against the "Sartid" arrangements at the beginning of the 2000s. I just think it's hypocritical to establish different kinds of standards. Say once – are you for privatisation, for private economy, for capitalism or for subsidies, donations and losers? It depends on my position and position of the LDP on what your government will be, what your ministry law will be, and whether a good provision of this member is where you say it should, among other things, separate the finance ministry and the economy ministry. I'm curious about one more thing. The LDP is otherwise against this amendment. We think the government must have 12 ministries, that's what we said in 2008. I'm not saying that we would succeed, if we were to make a coalition government, to make a government of 12 ministries at the end, but you, too, Mr. Selakovic, stood up for such a government. You gave it up today and you completely changed the concept. Why do I not believe that the provision of Article 1 is good, that it is possible to create a better organisation of the state by such a redecoration of the ministries, primarily in the area of finance and in the area of economy? Because, Mr. Selakovic, I am very confused, for example, with yesterday's president's views. The president of the Republic, namely, imagines Serbia's economic future as a container for Chinese goods, in Serbia as an island, from which we will throw the goods into Europe, which in the meantime has become the ocean. It's not just a failed metaphor for Mr. Nikolic. She is very serious about what his is like, and then I guess a whole series of people in your political party, since you came to power with a joint programme and votes, relative to Serbia's economic future. I find it difficult to combine such an experience with Mr Nikolic, and I don't think Mr Nikolic has made a geographical slip. I think he's shown how much he doesn't understand politics, the economy... . (President: Mr. Gjuric, the President of the Republic is not the agenda here. The President of the Republic is not the proposer of this law, the proposer of this law is the Government. By respecting your political reasons, I've allowed you to say whatever you want, but don't go any further, go back to what's on the agenda. Talk about the Ministry Act, this amendment, if you have anything to say about it. ) Dr Stefanovic, I remind you that the President of the Republic is involved in the legislative process. Namely, when this law is passed, he will go to the President of the Republic, or wait for the President... (President: When the law is passed, until it is adopted, we are talking about the bill. So, you talk about the bill, I think you should know that as a lawyer. But given the political and economic views of the President of the Republic, I doubt he'll sign a law like this, because he's the opposite... (President: But do not let your suspicion be the subject of debate, because it does not say in the Rules of Procedure that you can express your doubts about something that is not part of the debate or is part of this. So you're talking about the agenda. ) Okay, Mr. Stefanovic, you're a folk MP, your ruling coalition has proposed this law, right? Then I can talk about whether it's serious to propose this law, reconstruction, and at the same time leave the debate and visit a barbecue that I really appreciate. I chose not to talk about it, but to talk seriously about what the economic political views of the world, Serbia and its future are. Here, I'll go one step further. Mr Selakovic here, a few days ago, I think in one answer to me, said that the government must, and the government within the government, have to be clearly grouped, that its affairs must be clearly defined. He referred to some of the situations in the past when the incompetent ministers, or the incompetent politicians, addressed some of the issues that were not in their portfolio. I can agree with that. Then I faced the skill that Mr. Selakovic, I think in two days, as the minister of justice and the state administration should open a plum fair. Then I see again the same matrix, which I agree existed in previous governments, that you are building the Ministry of Finance separately, that you are making the Ministry of Business separately, that strategic partnerships do not conclude these people, but some other officials in the government, that the President of the Republic is leading his economic policy, and that the country is then facing serious problems. Here, Mr. Selakovic, you, among other things, mention yourself as one of the most serious. Is it in the Rules of Procedure, Mr Stefanovic, that a member of the government must listen carefully to the MPs? Thank you. So, you are Mr Selakovic, at least according to media information, one of the most serious candidates for the main negotiator, our country in negotiations with the EU. Here, I'm asking if the views, for example. Mr. Arsic, when it comes to privatisation, does Mr. Nikolic's economic views, who thinks that China will cross Serbia... I'm really warning you, next time I'll give you a heads-up. So don't talk about something that's not about agenda. You can't replace the thesis and what you've read in the paper to set as a fact in this assembly, whether someone's considered the main candidate for this or that. It has nothing to do with the agenda. That doesn't say in any act that's in front of us. So in this act, you can talk about the Ministry Act, and all this talk about it, I totally understand. Don't really do things like that. ) Did Mr. Babic here quote a daily newspaper again, he is not a reminder. I already said that once. Mr. Babic spoke as a replica, and in the replica he responded to something he was personally mentioned. You're talking about the agenda, that's the fundamental difference. I'm talking about the organization of a government proposed by the government by this bill, which I think is deeply wrong. Can I go on now? So here are a few questions for you, Mr. Selakovic. So let's make it very simple. What is your government's economic policy? What kind of policy will lead through these ministries, or through the economic part of the government that you propose to make such changes and additions to the law? There's not a word about it under the law, we've already talked about it. You have rejected all amendments to the opposition. You have also rejected an LDP amendment that would oblige you to make a reform plan for the ministries by 31 October this year. Mr. Vukic here two days ago said you'd be going into the rationalization of the ministries. What will be the policy of these ministries that you propose in terms of borrowing, in terms of price policy. Whether it will be as proposed by Mr Arsic, or as suggested by one who holds the monetary policy of Mrs Tabakovic, or what Mr Krstic suggests, or what Mr Radulovic suggests. If anyone will come and say again in this country in five years, you have given JAT, you have taken over the debts and wages, or the severance of the employees. Because this is an argument offered today by your MPs, Mr. Arsic, who is the head or deputy head of the SNS parliamentary group. I'm sorry that's a very important political issue, economically, socially, however you want the question. That's why I talked this way. Thank you, Mr. Stefanovic, for listening very carefully to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22251	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22252	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand the opposition's wish to challenge the replica and to ask questions to which some questions are not sent. Of course, when an MP with his respectable parliamentary and political standing asks questions of this guy in a law of technical nature, I suppose he knows he's wrong himself. You can hear government policy from the exposé of candidates for president or prime minister. The minister of justice and state administration is certainly not the one who will direct economic policy, talk about what kind of policy it will be, what it will be based on. Here you go when those who need it and have to answer it and ask them that question. As for the news that came out that I'm going to open a event. You know, when I find some time off, I'm sure I'll be happy to make the call to the organizers of some event, I'd love to. Just like everyone else before me, who'll probably do after me. So, if I get an official call from an organ, an organization, and I'm able to answer that, why don't I leave. I don't see what the problem would be, and I don't see anyone writing in jurisdiction, in a job description that deals with opening some events, so now someone's me or someone else is already in charge of it. So much, I don't see any more reason to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22253	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22254	Mr. President, you violated article 106, 107, because 106 says I'm not talking to the previous LDP speaker who usurped this pay phone, this Assembly, because it's not talking about the agenda point. The 107th point discusses the dignity of this assembly and insults the president of Serbia and insults all other SNS officials because he is the most responsible man and he should be one of the ministers or the economy or finance, or the president of the state or the president of the Serbian government because he is God-given and he will solve the problems of this country. These are some hallucinations visible in LDP membership and DS... .
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22255	Okay, please don't let this breach of the Rules of Procedure turn into a replica. Since the breach of the Rules of Procedure refers to the President of the Assembly. I understood, if you'd let me answer, I understood the essence of what you said. However, during the presentation of the previous speaker, I warned him to stick to the agenda several times, and I think that in that sense I have fulfilled my role as president of the assembly. Of course, if you insist, we can come forward on Voting Day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22256	Yeah, I want you to vote on it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22257	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22258	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Stefanovic, Mr. Selakovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, but primarily Serbian citizens, this paper is modest by its scope, and even more modest by its content is the result of nine months of labor suffering over the government's reconstruction. What did the people of the own coalition offer us in this piece of paper? Let's read it in a row. In Article 1, they change the name of the ministries. Now they're telling us that there are no savings that have been foreseen by the merger of the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Finance, now they're telling us that they deceived us last time we claimed the same thing. Now they say there's no such astronomical savings and that's not good. What they told us a year ago when we pointed out that we shouldn't bring together the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry, here's what they said, just a few sentences from that institution called the library. Here is the exposé of the Prime Minister – every nation has its own soul, Serbia's soul is equality, so the economic policy that I will represent will not call for the austerity and tightening of the citizens' belts whose standard of living in the previous period has experienced a drastic fall. What future Finance Minister Lazar Krstic says is that you drill a lot of holes on the belts, not to be furious, but you will tighten them up a lot until we drain dry dreno in you. Now I ask - how will the Prime Minister with such an exposé, with such a finance minister who says we'll tighten the belt. Who now deceives Serbian citizens. What did you tell us further, that you would continue to leave your anti-urban protection at the M.O.P. Did you hear Mr Predrag Marić's damage from the city was done to Serbia. Where do you live? You live in Serbia? Are you going through any places that have devastated the city? Does it hurt a little when you see that crushed fruit and corn? Where are those million-dollar savings you mentioned through public procurement? They're gone, you'll be remembered as the people who buried the farm. It will be written to you in your biography that you had such agriculture ministers as Alexander Vukic in his biography that he was the minister of information when Slavko Curuvija was killed and Tomislav Nikolic was the minister, the vice president of the federal government when NATO occupied Kosovo. It can't be erased from the biography. Of course, I also had an objection to the name of some other ministries. I had an objection to the name of the ministry under regular number 15, the Ministry of Natural Resources, mining and spatial planning. Where's science fiction? What happened to the Belgrade-Thessalonica channel? What happened to those projects? Put it here in the name of "The Science Fantastics Ministry", so that the citizens of Serbia know how you treat them. What about the Ministry of Ecology, why doesn't the Ministry of Ecology? Is the Ministry of Ecology not there because you're cutting down a 600-year-old oak oak? He may be rotten, but not nearly as much as he's engaged in the ruling coalition. Isn't there a Minister of Ecology because you're nickeling Serbia? Should I remind you of the attempt to niche Serbia last year, when the mayors rose, regardless of whether they are from SNS, DS or some other parties to defend their seats. Which was the answer to our criticism, when we showed you the arguments in the fact that this is the bad job you're doing. You sent us for an alcoholic test and drug tests, the same vocabulary as in 1999, all who are for the EU are foreign mercenaries and traitors. You don't mind sending your people's MPs on an alcohol test who's being trampled by their children, who beat up the chief of police in Vranj, but you'd like to send us for an alcoholic test.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22259	Mr. Milivoevich, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22260	Here we are already on the subject, which is not in this Article 1st position 2 that future ministers are obliged to deliver confidence about their physical and spiritual, or mental health, that we know whether this project channel Belgrade – Thessaloniki is really real? The obligation was for Zoran Djindjic to have all ministers pass certain checks, because when you want to drive a motor vehicle in this country, you have to take out a doctor's certificate, because the car is a dangerous means, you can hurt someone. State governance is a much more responsible job than driving a car. You're supposed to put the 2nd position on you to do a doctor's examination? What else do I have to tell you? You've reduced the reconstruction to "reality", this choice of ministers you've reduced to "reality", that SMS vote who goes from the farm, who goes from the Ministry of Finance to the chairman of the SNS city board in Dubai, that it will be Mladjan Dinkic, is now good, now the prison suit is blacked out, now the brother of Sheik wants to be a younger brother, or you hit the front of Ivica Dacic, and you want to say that they're not the exact titles of the tabloid, your party tabloid, which says "Everything is nothing, until Vukic becomes prime minister," says your Zorana Mihajlovic, in your tabloid, not in the daily newspaper that you criticize, not in this daily newspaper, which Vukic as the minister of information punishes millions of dinars, kidnapping of children's shoes, eggs, milk, journalists, whether they have children to feed, but in the Prime Minister's nothing. What do you say about the SPS, whether it's true or not, if you're reading "Informer," you're throwing, do you know the "Informer" commercial? I have to ask you something, you grab a lot of "Lovor's Wreath," and you put "Trun's Wreath" on our heads. We're proud of our "thorn wreath", don't worry about us, but spare car, can't, when it breaks down, change parts. Those are mostly worse than the original ones. That's the situation with these ministries.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22261	Replica, on behalf of the parliamentary group, Vladimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22262	I responded to the amendment, but all of a sudden, we're proud of the fact that Mladjan Dinkic ran the financing of this country and the economy in the previous period and I read some key results the day before, they may not be for some special praise of the emphasis, but they are certainly better than the results of the previous government. About why Mladjan Dinkic has been elected from this government, where he is no longer present, for a negotiator, or member of the Committee for Co-operation with the Emirates, it is best to ask the people of Emirat, from the Fiat, the World Bank, the IMF, because I think they will judge more impartially than us how well they are doing and represent Serbia's interests. I am absolutely sure that he defends these interests in the best way and that he will do so in the future. As we have announced, we will be constructive in this House, and I will look only at the amendment that is the subject of this debate. What is controversial and why we insist that these two ministries be one and remain a solution as they have been, is the fact that under the conditions of the economic crisis, high coordination is necessary...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22263	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22264	The time of the parliamentary group, and I answered by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22265	I gave you, you wouldn't have been right at that moment, I gave you a replica on behalf of the MP's group, but you'll have the right to answer again, of course. Replica, Ivan Jovanovic, just sign up one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22266	Mr. Djuric, by proposing this amendment, I didn't expect your support, and in principle you represented the view that the government should have 12 ministries last year, but I was talking about those who proposed 12 ministers to the government, collecting signatures in 2011, so in 2012, you said 17 would be enough and that these two ministries should be together, so that there would be as little cost for the citizens and four offices, and then today they tell us how it should be separated to be more efficient, so common united these functions aren't good, that when it works out great, and everything will be great. I just wanted to explain how much political inconsistencies there are in this proposal. He completely opens up everything that was behind the eyes of the public. It was not the story of the separation of this ministry when the discussion of the reconstruction began, but at the request of the governors of the NB and SNS to take over under NB financial reporting and we discussed it in July, the representatives of the URS were reputed on that occasion and, of course, Ivica Dacic noticed that you cared deeply about the Ministry of Finance and Industry and decided to do so to you in this sense and to allow you to take over the party leadership of those two resolutions and then the idea was born. She's being realized today. And the fact that you need to silence Mladjan Dinkic in some way, assign him some function as an advisor to UAR, I asked if it was the Vrsak vineyards or the hotel in Kopalnik? Because if we're giving a hotel as a subsidy to open some jobs, I'm asking you how many jobs are going to open, in how many squares, in the Kopalnik? (President: Time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22267	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22268	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am reporting, of course, under this amendment. I respect, Mr. President, that you allow the opposition to step forward, since I have been an opposition for many years, even out-of-parliamentary, to step out of what is the subject, or what is the essence of this amendment, and that the debate turns the maltenes into trust with the government. The procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure on Trust in the Government was prescribed, so that if they wanted to have this public discussion of the water, they had time for a year and a few days. As far as I can see, the purpose of this law is to technically correct the past law for the separation of the Ministry of Finance and Business and some additional powers at the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, to correct the law in this sense to organise the work of the future government, i.e. to enable the government to organise life, i.e. to organise a state in segments from economy to each individual segment of our social life. It is the meaning of the law and the meaning of the amendment, as far as I can see, that a member should be deleted and that an old solution from the Ministry Act remains in force. What has been said here has touched even the private lives of others. No matter how rudely offended I was last night, I will never complain about the insults coming from the opposition. They just can't insult me. However, I advise you to stick to this law a little bit as much as it does to expose the opposition at least 10% of the discussion that will be directed towards the criticism of the law. So if they want to bring him down, if they do, I have no objection. In that sense, the opposition in its operation has all my support. However, any work should have some measure. So, despite being the subject of great insults the night before last, I didn't ask the president to react and warn and God forbid he throws out opposition MPs, because for me, no matter what they do, it would be very ugly. Here we talked again about some alcohol tests, psycho tests, etc. Someone was saying that about the I.Q. tests. Someone thinks half-writers don't belong here. I think this is where all the citizens belong. They should be in a position to choose the government under the Ministry Act, that there should be both peasants and workers, both in writing and in writing. Regardless of their views and opinions, I will not go down to that level, but yet to you, President, I advise you to channel as much as you do, that this discussion might get some sense not of us, but of them. When someone says this is dry-drinking, and I'm asking, who dried that dreno? So, for 12 years, someone has been drying up some wood and now resents someone trying to squeeze something out of what they've been constantly drying in every sense for 12 years, where they've made public business private businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22269	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22270	Mr. Selakovic, I absolutely disagree with you. So I didn't ask you what should be a question for the prime minister. In doing so, you could have sent the Prime Minister here, so we could talk about the essence. You chose not to do that. This is not just a technical question, otherwise Mr. Vukic would not have come to parliament two days ago. He was talking about government policy, I'm using today's opportunity to question you what the government's policy will be like. Why do I care? Because separating these ministries isn't just a technical matter. I don't think the ministries should be separated. Answer my question, how will you run a coordinated policy, if at the Ministry of Finance it is your business to control the funds of public funds and public enterprises, and then at the Ministry of Economy you have control and appointment of the managing body and capital representatives in companies, other societies with majority state ownership. So, how Lazar Krstic will control these funds that are his obligation under the law, say the Railways, if this Ministry of Business continues to insist that Dragoljub Simonovic be the director of the Railways and operate the way he's done business so far, that they continue to have 13 billion euros and annual donations. I ask you, what is your opinion as a member of the government? You voted for these ministries to be separated, on the basis of which economic, political, business, whatever criteria do you choose for this solution? After him, you convince me, then I will support it, will there be a smaller debt of public enterprises, of the public sector? Will a provision of the Privatisation Act be implemented to open competitions by 30 June? Maybe you can put the time back and now it's 29 June again, will it be under the new government this organized, public competitions for "Serbian Gas", "Post of Serbia"? What are the plans for the Railways? Depending on that, I can only assess whether the better solution you propose or what was in the old law, which Mr Jovanovic is pleading for, is the applicant of this amendment. It's the only thing that makes sense to talk here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22271	The word is Mr. Milivojevic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22272	Dear Mr. National Assembly President, Mr. Minister, I don't expect all MPs to understand me, but at least I expect us to understand each other, to try and understand what we're talking about. (Wolceta Toskovic, from the place: You understand. ) You throw, for example, that test, that obligation that ministers, future ministers, perform medical examinations and deliver reports and confidence about the state of their physical and mental health, so I didn't just dream of it at night and did it and wrote it, but Dr Zoran Djindjic did it, and I suggested it when I heard that you were riding a tiger. Today the tiger, tomorrow the dragon, the day after the Pegasus, and where does this land go? You know, when you're about to ride tigers, Pegasus and dragons, you deliver mandatory medical assurance, let's see who runs this country? That when we see it, then it's possible to talk about other things, let's say the exposé. On Friday, when we have a debate about the government's trust, the election of this new government since it fell, you all deliver the exposés of Ivica Dacic and underline as I have underlined, all these historical epochal sentences, from tightening the belt, so here I'll remind you of some more of what they say. From the businessmen - he says - I ask three things, not to fire the workers and to pay the profits regularly, to pay taxes, like from Simpa, at least so much that they pay taxes, so when they don't pay taxes, the state will buy it all. So he says in this same exposé – we will take special care of our country's natural resources and provide greater investment in the energy and mining sectors, as well as transport and telecommunications infrastructure. How many kilometers of highway have you made in a year, and how many kilometers of canals of this Thessaloniki – Belgrade via Dragobuza and Grdelica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22273	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22274	Speaking of these health assurances, I don't have any problem trying to test out everything I need, but I think someone who claims that the city in Serbia has been falling since 2012, when the Serbian Progressive Party has taken responsibility, I think it takes a lot more to deal with what it says and how it talks, because around that sphere of fear, panic, sowing, everything will be cataclysmic only for us to stay in power, only we are the best, only we are destined to exercise power in Serbia, and if the Serbian Progressive Party comes, only the city will fall. Here are the locusts, here is the disaster and cataclysm and nonstop and in the election campaign, so it wasn't enough for Serbian citizens to punish them, so nonstop, and for the last year, so with 20 and change, they burned to three percent. Well, when these people understand what they're doing and how they're doing, and that Serbian citizens are asking for solutions both from us here in parliament and from the government of the Republic of Serbia, they're asking for a better life. The time has come for those who seek medical assurances and now defend the oak, once not to ban King Alexander's boulevard without a single single green branch. King Alexander's boulevard, which is not even known today how much that reconstruction cost. What's this about? What kind of medical beliefs? What kind of political constant? What kind of seeding fear, panic, hatred? Enough with the hate and enough with the separation points. People in Serbia are looking for solutions from us, looking for a better life. The Serbian Progressive Party wants to give it to them and give it to them. On the other hand, a young fellow I would like to help, the Serbian Progressive Party is... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Collect signatures and collect signatures to reduce the number of MPs, and never to reduce the number of ministries. At the moment when the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which we are always ready to accept and go before that court, and when we bear responsibility, you will see how many ministries there will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22275	Legally on the line, MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22276	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, I am a graduate agricultural engineer. After locusts, something remains, and after some who were in power by 2000 there was nothing left -- a budget deficit enormous, inflation the greatest in the history of human civilization, material, territorial and human losses are immeasurable. You know, the robbed money they're talking about, it's easy to come back. Fortify yourself who stole and then take away all that he stole, but the dead have never risen from the graves. They've never grown the hands or legs they've lost in the wars. Beaten in demonstrations, because they asked for Serbia to be in the European Union, which they called foreign mercenaries, will never get satisfaction because they have seen 23 years later. They don't care what the news is when one of you goes to the EU. It has not been news for a long time, especially those who have been banned from joining the EU. But, as Mr. Wolf said, let's talk about numbers. How much did the raspberries last year cost and how many of these? How much did that plum cost last year and how many of these? Last year, 23 dinars, ten of these. The drought was much bigger last year. How much did the cherry last year cost? A hundred dinars and 40 this year. What is the size of foreign investment according to UN indicators? In Serbia, the smallest in 13 years. It's exact economic data. Serbia ranks 147th in the scope of foreign direct investment. It's not DS, it's the UN. Albania, Croatia, BiH are ahead of us. When you're so beautiful and smart, what would happen to us if you hadn't shown up? Where are those investments? Where are those jobs? Where'd they go, vaporized those public procurement savings? How much did you forecast savings? From one billion to three billion, they invested here. There's no such savings, it's just that he's grown so long. It's the only thing that's grown. It's a game of numbers that you're trying to play with Serbian citizens, but you have serious people from the DS, who play that game with arguments and facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22277	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22278	Thank you. I propose to the President of the National Assembly that, on the basis of Article 90, which he says – at the same time, the President of the National Assembly give the necessary explanations regarding the work on session and other issues, provide me with the necessary explanation concerning the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, which, according to a report distributed to the Members of Parliament, is under Article 163(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected as an incomplete amendment. That position in Article 163 states: “The Committee responsible will reject incomplete amendments with offensive content, which will be reported to the National Assembly. ” I request the President of the National Assembly to provide me with an additional explanation in which the incompleteness of the amendments that I have signed and handed over in good time, which, by its content, is a list of responsibilities for the ministries that we propose to the amendments, because we have previously changed Article 2, which, according to the draft amendments and addition of the Law, has been introduced so that any of the ministries can be added or changed. If the bill that you sent us contained a provision amending Article 2 so that only points concerning the Ministry of Law, the Ministry of Finance and Business and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs were changed, we would not have been able to suggest that the Ministry of Environment be introduced. You have not rejected that amendment, and you have rejected as an incomplete amendment that, subsequently, once I propose to introduce a new Ministry, I propose both jurisdiction and such a ministry. In some sad sense, it is a joyful news, as the goal is not to have two minutes to explain the amendment to the powers and not to vote in 15 seconds on the amendment. I don't see any other explanation. Mr. President of the National Assembly, please provide me with an additional explanation of what is incomplete in the amendment defining the powers of the Ministry that we are proposing with the amendment, which you have not rejected, which will be voted on. I don't want to talk about it, and then how do you imagine if, by chance and happily, you accept an amendment to be introduced by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, who will write in this law his jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22279	Since I have not attended the Committee's session, I suggest I give my word to Mr. Cvian, who is the chairman of the Committee and that we need an explanation. I think it will remove any further doubt regarding this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22280	As chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs, who knows which time in the Assembly to give an explanation that begins with a sentence that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted at the time of the previous assembly, really contains some bad solutions. Here, I have no problem saying that those solutions are bad. The member of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee in front of the DS is Mrs Teodora Vlahovic. He can confirm that, as chairman of the Committee, I voted for the amendments to remain in the process. Here's a colleague of Theodora's. I think the solution from the Rules of Procedure that we inherited is bad. This solution, which also refers to the practice of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, when chaired by my distinguished colleague Vlatko Ratkovic, implies that amendments should not go beyond the scope of the law. So, I find that bad. That's why I voted that these amendments, which I usually find very correct, very well written, quite excessive. Of course, the government didn't accept them. Now I speak as a lawyer, I think these amendments are quite correct. I even voted for them to stay in the process, so we could discuss these amendments. The Committee's position is, someone can correct me if I'm wrong, nine votes against and two against, and that was exactly the colleague of Theodora Vlahovic and myself. Of course, I have followed the current practice of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law that we have inherited from previous times so that such amendments cannot enter the procedure. As far as incompleteness is concerned, it's a term used by the Rules of Procedure. Again, that term is no good either. I totally agree with that. So it's not good in that part of the Rules of Procedure that we inherited from the past. I have said many times that it would not be bad to consider amending the Rules of Procedure in some parts, even in this part. I'd really like to start discussing this one day. It is simply that we accept that it is the formerly inherited practice and the Committee from some earlier times, the inherited Rules of Procedure of some earlier times...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22281	Mr. Cvian, just one question. What is the incompleteness of the amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22282	The problem with the amendment is being looked at in the fact that, at first, I said, it comes out of the context of the subject matter of the proposed law, outside the subject-matter of the proposed law. That's the basic problem we inherited again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22283	I'm asking, if the subject matter of the amendment is the jurisdiction of the ministries...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22284	Which is not the subject of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22285	But we have a proposal to change, let's say a different formula for the ministry, which is one of the next amendments and it has a ministry to be inserted which is not intended for this and this amendment is kind of coming out, but it's accepted by the board. I just want to know what's the real difference?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22286	To tell you the truth, as chairman of the board who voted against this decision, I'm a little in an awkward situation. I voted first, and I was against it, and I was the first to keep this amendment in the process. I can't give a better explanation except for this one I've just given. No one answered for a word on any other amendment such as the amendment, I mean colleagues Karic, who is very correct. So, I'm in an impossible position to defend something that I disagree with, and I voted against.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22287	I was just interested in a different approach methodology in both amendments, because by that logic, we should also reject these amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22288	I agree with that, too, but I was also against these amendments being rejected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22289	Okay, but you can't put a personal attitude here. You must act as chairman of the Committee and what is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22290	The Committee's position was that this amendment that was rejected as incomplete is not in line, it crosses the frameworks and the other one does not. I have no other explanation, I'm sorry. I can't give a better explanation. I know what I'm saying is not a good explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22291	Thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22292	Thank you, Mr. President. I reported to Article 1, supporting what's going on right now, and that's because of the savings, because this is the House of the National Assembly, and we need to discuss here what's really on the agenda and accidentally disrupt the procedure, and immediately give a suggestion to all of us. Nothing prevents you from allowing, in accordance with an explanation that you have adequately allowed the MP who asked the question, MP Komic, to allow, accordingly, that when the amendment comes to the agenda to be discussed. It's not going to disrupt that in any way. According to Article 1, I answered for a simple reason. Because I see a lot of confusion about what the law is. Article 1 states that the Rules of Procedure are in accordance with the Law on the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution. So that we wouldn't happen to be in this discussion, and I can see that it's leading, especially when that match goes off, when two of them are burning on the side so we don't know which ball we're choosing, so that we don't make a mistake informing you about the dilemma of the oath. Mr. Selakovic and you were found the day before yesterday. Likewise, Mrs Comic, ministers who are members of the government do not take an oath because the oath is taken when entering the government and is not taken at the resort. So, the oath doesn't go to the vault. That dilemma is clear. Secondly, today, Mr. President of the National Assembly, you have invited everyone to attend a session tomorrow at 10:30 p.m., which will have one item on the agenda. So during the extraordinary session, with a set agenda, which is an amendment and addition of members of parliamentary delegations. I remind you there's no reason for that. It is possible to add that item to the agenda before the vote in accordance with the Law, and we can make that clear. In case someone is concerned, because please, there is one life, one procedure is one, and every citizen knows it when he finds himself in front of a counter, in case someone gets scared because he's worried about his different problems and if he's afraid it's not possible for MPs to start a debate because there are no 126 votes to vote at the beginning of the session, because that sitting is where these MPs need to be proposed for ministers, there is no danger. Every session in an emergency session starts with 84 MPs. It is not disputed that MPs no matter at any time should those who will be candidates for ministers resign. I believe RIK's paid enough...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22293	Please finish. It's been three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22294	Therefore, it is not disputed that RIK delivers, that new MPs enter and eventually be voted. They have 15 days to give up the duties of MPs, and I ask you to save us from making new expenses to the citizens. If you'll just give me one sentence. As some things sound logical, and when you look at it, we're just throwing money away for ignorance, it's also illogical for ministers to pass some health test at the beginning of the function. It's important at the end of the function, because in the meantime, people go crazy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22295	There's one thing I need to answer. Unfortunately, you were wrong when you said something about the agenda. Since the Rules of Procedure define that the agenda in the extraordinary sitting is predetermined by a request of at least 1/3 of the Members of Parliament or Government. So when I scheduled this agenda he was already predetermined and I can't extend it in any way in an emergency session. In a regular session, the National Assembly president defines the agenda and may propose to the National Assembly to extend it. In this case, I'm powerless. Since we will certainly have a day to vote tomorrow, there will be no extraordinary costs for the National Assembly because a number of MPs who will definitely come to the vote will also be present at the session at which we will discuss the expansion of permanent parliamentary delegations. I stayed in debt to Mrs. Comic. As president of the National Assembly, I have no authority to put the amendment rejected for any reason in the voting procedure. However, if there is a procedure, since I see that there is a universal goodwill in Parliament to find a way to vote on this amendment, I suggest that if there are business opportunities for the Committee to re-engage in any way or try to find... The secretary tells me that's not possible. I'm willing to find out if there's any way, because I don't think there's anything questionable about the amendment one more time. Especially when there is such a broad goodwill for everyone to discuss the amendment. After what I heard in the debate, I conclude that either this amendment should have been accepted or other amendments that have defined something different than the bill defines. So I don't see that it was possible for both of us. I leave it to the Legislative Committee, which is the sole authority to discuss it and give its opinion. I am not sure what procedure we can do yet for this amendment because it has already passed the procedure, unless in the current sitting the Committee can make a new amendment that would be identical to the text, so that the same text is not discussed at this time and in some way correct this as a technical possibility. That's my suggestion. I cannot order either the Committee or the Committee members to do so, but as far as I know, I think it is the only possibility that at this time we have an amendment with such a text on the agenda, or on Voting Day. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22296	Just one more short thank you to the chairman of the Constitutional and Legislative Committee and to the fact that he did not vote for such a proposal and for the fact that we all heard that there was no need for an explanation. To leave beyond any dilemma that my intervention is neither because I am one, together with my colleagues from the signatories of the amendment, nor because I believe there is any hope that the amendment, in the establishment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, will be, and then it is my duty to say and what are jurisdiction. I intervene because I think it is valuable for practice in this Assembly, because amendments are submitted on the basis of the Rules of Procedure because they are not incomplete and then it is good to have in mind for anyone next, whenever anyone is in a similar situation, that we do not come into a situation where the amendment is rejected, because whenever any committee once rejects the amendment, it disappears from the procedure. It is not to be debated, nor is it to be heard. Since it is not even about my will to make that amendment any way I jump out of business and obligations when it comes to the debate on the law, given that I had the suggestion that all these amendments could have been prevented that you had to change only points, but when you once put Article 2 that governs all ministries in the process of amending and supplementing and said that you only want to change four ministries, all the other MPs have the right to say – which they would still have the ministries to change. In that sense, the powers that I have stated in the subsequent amendment cannot be rejected as incomplete. I don't mind changing Rules of Procedure, I don't mind if it's a personal decision, but they're not incomplete. Culture is a procedure and I therefore thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. It's a thin hope that this isn't all political and personal, because it isn't. This is about the state and the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22297	Mr. Markovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22298	Thank you. In no way did I want to comment on you. You certainly acted in accordance with the request. Of course, it's my lapus and I'm sorry, I started counting, so for the sake of time savings, I didn't present all the possibilities. One option is that, during an emergency, you set a date at the request to hold a session with the set agenda and you have the possibility to do so within 90 days. That's my advice. Therefore, you have no reason to do so tomorrow, as there is no saving in any way, because it is possible to vote tonight, as soon as the debate on amendments is over. As far as I know, there's no problem with the majority that would pass the law. So we can do it right now tonight. We're not going to let because some people travel, walk, have unimportant obligations, and when it comes to important obligations, I remind you once again of what was just a joke, it's not a small thing. Ministers may not have to, and this is not the subject of this law, certainly, to undergo any kind of review at the beginning of the term of office, but it is good at the end. I was the president of the assembly and the minister and I had colleagues, and I know, at the beginning of the term of office of the President of the Assembly, I entered with six cars, went out with one. There were other examples around me. At the beginning of the brief term of the culture minister, I entered with a company from the area, which was the most successful in the country. I went out with a destroyed company like that. It is possible that I should be examined, and perhaps those who have entered those governments with one car or one apartment should be examined and come out with much more. I suggest, when amendments are given on this subject, let them be given in this very sense. Thank you all for showing our willingness to discuss in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to enable the efficient and efficient work of this House.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22299	Thank you. I apologize to the MPs for not being able to apply at all times, since our list is full all the time and then I'm trying with the secretary to make those adjustments, so we can mark it on the side. But it happens that you can't sign up at any time. First, Mr Đuric was Mr. Djuric, then Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22300	It's been a few minutes, but thank you for finally getting my word back. Article 27, here, we've been discussing here for 10 minutes about a matter that is procedural, but it's not just procedural. I remind you, Mr. Stefanovic, of what we talked about two days ago. We wouldn't have come to this situation if this session had been prepared differently, if there had been more time, that consultations had been held before this session. This is a very serious question. For this situation above all, I consider the government responsible, and then you who have this way organized this session with very little time. The government has disabled practically parliamentary groups, MPs, if that's what you want, to submit proposals that would say they think the government, which ministries should have, should look like. Mr. Selakovic, that's what we talked about. The government was supposed to propose a brand-new ministry law. It's a normal procedure when changes are made in government, especially in this area. Mrs. Comić is right, in a way and Mr. Cvian, in the end we are in one situation, on either side. According to the interpretation adopted here, then practically no amendment is in line with the Rules of Procedure. I think it's a pointless interpretation and it's a pointless situation. Then there's nothing to talk about here. If you have listed all the ministries in the bill you want to have, then you must allow some other amendments, for example, to define their jurisdiction, or parliamentary debate on what kind of legislation Serbia should have, there is no purpose. Then let's move on to another system. There are countries where parliament does not adopt every time the ministry law, not even chooses the government in a technical sense. Let's build a system like this and then let the governments where the Prime Minister actually chooses his associates come here with regular laws and budgets. But we can't function like this. It's unsustainable. Some MPs are now in a better situation because their amendments have formally entered the procedure. Some others are short for it. It's not a good situation for parliament. I say once again, we might not have come to this if we had a normal time to discuss this session and prepare this session. We couldn't avoid this thing, Mr. Stefanovic, because the bill was on the Internet presentation, as you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22301	Thank you. As far as this is concerned, I don't see how this problem would have been avoided, even if we had a thousand years to prepare this session, because this isn't about someone not being able to submit the amendment, but the tabled amendment has been rejected by the Committee as incomplete. That's the thing that the Legislative Committee has assessed. I also heard Mrs. Comic's opinion. Finally, the problem may also be that the Rules of Procedure are not good enough and not good enough, i.e. its provisions have a restrictive effect on what kind of amendments can be submitted. I think we can all sit and fix this together in some future period, because we've all seen more things together and in this summation that should be fixed so that MPs, no matter who is the authority and who is the opposition, can make changes to the law as best as possible. I agree, but in this case, I as Parliament Speaker have no power whatsoever. The word is made by MP Donka Banovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22302	It's not my intention to start a discussion about this, as one of our colleagues said, but I think we should solve this situation in a good way now, because this can become a dangerous practice. I can't believe we don't have a business opportunity to solve this problem right now. I think you should meet up and find some solution to this situation. What also worries is that the president of the Committee asked that these amendments remain in the procedure at the Committee's session. He says he was outvoted, and we haven't heard here, and I don't even know what the other members of the Committee are, that they explain to us or explain why these amendments were rejected, if the president of the Committee was of a different opinion. We've heard his opinion, but we're not the opinion of the other committee members. The Democratic Party of Serbia, you know that we have not tolerated as the parliamentary group of our amendments, but by reading these amendments we intend to vote for some amendments and specifically for these amendments that you have rejected. So I'm really asking you to stop the session and find some way out of this situation that we've all found pointless, and it's very dangerous.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22303	Unfortunately, according to the Rules of Procedure, I don't have that option. In consultation with the secretary, the way out of this situation, without changing the Rules of Procedure, which you realize is completely impossible to do in one day, even in a few days, is completely impossible. On the other hand, the Committee gave its opinion. Whether someone likes it or not, whether I like it or the president of the Committee, is entirely relevant to the Assembly. The procedure has defined what the procedure is when the amendment is defined, who is considering it. After all, there is judicial protection for that. Anyone who feels that something has not been done in accordance with the law has the right to seek justice in court. In any case, I think it would also be a dangerous practice to call the board members to explain their opinion on why they voted for something. If this was contrary to the will of the president of the Committee, we will make many MPs uncomfortable, and the board member has the right to vote in accordance with his security, in accordance with what he thinks and to explain nothing to anyone. That's why there's an institute, let's say, freedom to vote. As far as this is concerned, I think the argument is given. I'll give you all my word. He's got rules of procedure before you do. Mr. Djuric is also waiting for what he said, so you got the word, so now he'll get Dr. Radojevic, so when he's done, then he'll get Mr. Đuric again by the Rules of Procedure, so you, and so on. We take strict care of the order. So, there's an explanation. I think that argument, regardless of whether we consider it logical or illogical and in line with the missing Rules of Procedure, but to the Rules of Procedure who passed all the procedures envisaged by law, and I think all the conditions have been obtained to continue with the work. The word has the People's MP Dr. Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22304	Thank you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, it's been a long time since I tried to apply for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, obviously it was a technical problem, but it was about the dignity of the Assembly, because the previous speaker, Mr. Milivojevic, brought forth a series of serious untruths and accusations at the expense of the SNS parliamentary group and my smallness within that parliamentary group that I belong to, and this is about the fact that man claims that we were losing our territory, that we were doing financial, economic, agricultural destruction. I really don't know where he's been for all these 12 years and what's happened in these 12 years, when that parliamentary majority with 126 MPs in a minimum of 12 years ruled this country, which was a total of 1500 years of government, or a millennium and a half, and who made economic, financial and all the other destruction in this country, but I certainly know where I was in the context of my work obligations and in the context of what happened to the SNS that was founded a few years ago, which certainly had nothing to do with it. Indeed, from what I know from the media, from what was happening on the public scene, whether agronomies can hold some kind of treats or catering facilities and spread fecal oral infections, I don't know, but I know that my colleagues, and I, with them, have worked on it and that what I've been doing for 10 or 12 years, while he's with the parliamentary majority, or the parliamentary majority that ruled this country, is certainly much more responsible for the destruction and economic and economic and agricultural and each, whatever you take in these previous 12 years. So I'm asking you to protect me from insults that have nothing to do with people who didn't belong to the government and couldn't in any way create what we were accused of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22305	The word is Mr. Djuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Boyan Djuric. Thank you. This was a weird trip. Article 27. Here's how we could avoid this situation that you're talking about, Mr. Stefanovic. You said about ten minutes ago that perhaps at this point the Committee could find a solution and propose some kind of amendment. That's not possible now, because we started a discussion in particular. That between the moment this law came to parliament, the bill and the beginning of the debate in particular did not go on for three days, but if it had been seven days or 10 days, we might have gotten to that idea sooner if the board had to. If the board had not been working hours before the debate began in particular, then perhaps these problems, which have arisen as a result of such a decision by the board, could be corrected. If we, Mr. Stefanovic, get the board's opinion here at the moment when the debate starts in particular, then there is no longer a second time to apply the solution that you, I believe well-intentionedly, you suggested at one point. That is why there are and there are business provisions that say how much, as a rule, preparation for the session, how much the draft law stands in the parliamentary procedure, presidential control of the content, or the fulfilment of formal conditions, etc. That's why I think we could have avoided this situation, and that we shouldn't have been so barging about the deadlines that were set for no particular reason. Whether the debate on this law and the reshuffle of the government began on 26 August or 2 September is quite the same, unless ambition is to prove by force that those deadlines set in public are fulfilled. That's why we're in such an awkward situation. In principle, you're right, and I advocate that the laws are more in the process so that we can talk about it. However, as far as the committee's session is concerned, since you know that I have no authority in calling the committee meetings, even if the procedure had been 20, 30 days, the chairman of the board could certainly schedule the session in the same period, the same deadline as it was scheduled now, and we might not have another second. I'm telling you about the theoretical model, just like you were talking about the theoretical model. In this case, I have no influence on how committee sessions are scheduled. I wish we had more time for everything, but there's no way I could do it. Donka Banovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22307	Thank you. I think the way out of this situation is very simple, that the board president schedules a new session, we take a short break, that board members make an opinion, decide, admit a mistake, admit that they have broken the rules of procedure and change that decision and that these amendments are in debate and that they are voted on later. When I said that I would like to hear the opinion of those board members who voted to reject these amendments, of course, it was not my intention to listen to board members, but simply to hear their opinion, which is why they voted or decided. I think you were an MP, too, I was sure when we had in the Rules of Procedure that every member of a committee, who casts an opinion at a committee session, had the right for five minutes, to inform all other MPs or to explain why he had given an opinion. I wasn't talking about any hearing, I was talking about hearing these other arguments that they were taking place when they decided to reject these amendments. In principle, the chairman of the board can very easily resolve the situation, as well as the members.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22308	Let me get this straight. I only evaluated your imperative tone, because you said – let's hear their opinions. If anyone wants to take a stand, they have the right to do so at the board's session and get it out. By asking for it, we'd be listening to people. If anyone wants from members, he can raise his hand now, search the Rules of Procedure and explain everything he wanted or didn't want to say at that session. But if he doesn't want to, I don't want to ask them. As people voted, it's their right and I'll always fight for not having to explain to us at all why they raised their hand for something and they didn't. That's the essence of what I said. If I didn't understand you correctly, I don't think you had an evil intention, but I'm just saying that maybe you don't realize that you had a little tone that suggested that we might be looking for something from people, which I don't think we have a right to. Mr. Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22309	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's get this discussion over with. So the reason some amendments were rejected is democracy. On the board, nine of them voted to be rejected, two voted against. I was against, I thought, as chairman of the board, that amendments should stay and I was in the minority. It's called democracy, just to sort things out a little bit. Second, the reasons why it's one way or another. For example, the DSS could explain it at the board's session, but they didn't come to the board. LDP members who were members of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee could explain but did not come to the committee. There were 11 members on the board. He has a precise record. When the vote came, nine voted for one decision, two for the other, a democratic decision was made. I don't know how to explain it because I was against that decision. I thought we needed an amendment to stay in the process. Do I like the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. Do I like the practice so far? No, I don't. But democracy requires that I respect her and that's what we end up with, in my opinion, every discussion. There are ways to get out of this problem, to respect the procedure, and to be correct. I also talked to my colleague, Comic, and she can explain her amendment as part of another discussion, to hear what the amendment says. At the very least, if necessary, I, as chairman of the board, can read the amendment, it would be in line with the Rules of Procedure, but I repeat again. Whoever's against the procedure, wait, nine to two. That's how the decision was made. I respect her, too, and I don't like her. I voted against the decision, and I have to respect it. Next time, if anyone has anything to say, send their board members to the board meeting, that's the least of the problems, but you didn't send them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22310	I just have to say, if Mrs. Vlahovic was present at the board session, then DS had... (Vladimir Cvian, from the post: DSS. I'm sorry, then. Mrs. Vlahovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22311	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm using the right to a replica, given that the chairman of the board, Mr. Cvian, has mentioned my name several times. I was present on the board and, as he mentioned, I voted against such a solution to reject the amendment as incomplete, because it cannot be more complete, logically looking, because it starts from the formation of new ministries and of course it is naturally a complete amendment that, by nature, complements itself with jurisdiction. What I have come to say and to ask colleagues who consider these amendments to be in order, to ask them to vote in favour of our amendment to Article 1, given that Article 165. The Rules of Procedure say in its position 2. that, if, in order to adopt one or more amendments, the need to implement a legal and technical regulation, i.e. because of the non-compliance of the text, then both the legislative and parent committees will have to sit down to correct it, and this will be corrected by actually supplementing the relevant competences. Then again we come to our other amendments, which in a proper way give jurisdiction to these new ministries, which we have submitted. I can say that the problem has actually arisen because the amendments to the law and the opening of Article 2 gave very broad opportunities and should be considered, because legal normation could have been regulated differently and we couldn't then put amendments in place. This change of law has given us this opportunity. Unfortunately, most have decided how she decided, and I ask other colleagues who feel the same way as we do, regarding the special protection of the human environment, but also science, to support the amendment to Article 1, because then we will come to the right content of these ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22312	Thank you. The word is Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22313	According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 106. Dear Chairman, my discussion concerns the presentation of colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group who spoke before Mr Cvian, and as regards the atmosphere in which the debate was conducted in principle, and today tries to continue, and this is the atmosphere in which offensive expressions are used, data on the private life of other MPs, persons who are not present here, etc. I ask you that the Rules of Procedure, who has brought the majority of parliament in the previous assembly and who may have his faults, but is now a valid Rules of Procedure, that you apply it consistently, because the MP group of DS will not address these MPs, because we believe that they are not worthy of us to communicate with them, but to you, President, who you are obliged to warn them. So, we're not here to be targeted by the individual MPs that you or someone from the SNS are going to be empowered to treat the DS parliamentary group in this way, we're not going to let that happen. First of all, given the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the reputation of the National Assembly and all laws concerning the role and mandate of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please take care of this fact with the tolerance you have for your MPs and your positions and your opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22314	That's exactly what I was doing. In the presentation of Dr Radojevic, I listened carefully, he did not mention at any time any parliamentary group, no MP, no political party. In his presentation, he spoke of what was done at the time of the previous government and felt that what was said in the presentation of some of the predecessors offended him, because he did not belong to any government, had no effect on anything like that. He believes that there has been violations of the Rules of Procedure, that he is a part of a political party, and designated as someone responsible for the blame in society, is not held accountable because he never belonged to any government. He said that in one way that is specific. At the same time during this debate, and in principle, away from the opposition's names being given out of the ranks of people who are neither MPs nor participants in political life, even in the agenda, for example, about Vršačka Vinograd, who have nothing to do with the agenda. When these people are on the agenda, then I don't mind talking about them for five hours or as long as it takes, no matter how long it takes. However, I think that today's debate is, I'm even glad we had this debate on the amendment and we've seen some weaknesses. I'm warning everyone and I'm asking my colleagues, I think this debate was going pretty well, we've been on the amendment to Article 1, which shows that it's something the Assembly considers important because it doesn't consider it important we'd probably move faster over it. I wish in that spirit we could continue the debate and agree with you when you say we should stick to the agenda and take care of what's said. Honestly, I just wanted to tell you this about Radovic because I don't think he said anything offensive about anyone in any way. Mr. Djuric has his word on the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22315	I agree with you, Mr. Cvian, that it is good that we have had such a debate and I was also pleased with her time and spirit until the chairman of the Committee, Mr. Cvian, came forward and severely injured the dignity of this assembly, insulted the LDP Parliament Club, and you did not react, therefore, to Article 107 has been injured. So, the idea that I or anyone else in the LDP should send a member, a member of the Parliament or an MP to a session of the Committee is absolutely unacceptable. I don't know if Mr. Cvian has such a relationship in those places where he deals with politics, business or where he's worked in the past, but there's no such thing in LDP. So, Professor Svetislava Bulajic is a member of that committee, she has the right to express her position with or without presence, has the right to speak at this session of parliament, and never in the LDP or her, nor will anyone else be sent or forbidden to attend the Committee's meetings. This is not the Serbian presidency or any other similar institution. So, I'm glad to see you're back in the O.R. to hear this. Don't ever ask anyone from the LDP to send someone or not to the committee sessions again, these are full-time people, very educated and very aware of their obligations. Those for what they do correspond to the citizens of Serbia who chose them, not to you. The particular problem is that Mr. Cvian spoke as president of the parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22316	I have to say, I totally agree with this attitude. National MPs have the right to place their political party's position or their own personal position with or without their presence. As I don't think anyone can call the MPs responsible for the way they vote, nor whether he was present at the Committee's session or not, because it can also be a political stance. So that's where we totally agree. Not wanting to get into what Mr. Cvian said, I don't think he said it in that sense, but I think it's certainly inadmissible to say and I think it's best that whoever was present is not present at the Committee sessions we don't discuss in such a way, because that's the thing that's public information. After all, citizens can take the information and draw their own conclusions, but we will not deal with it. The word is Mrs. Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22317	Mr. President, I don't like that you took the right to judge the tone I was speaking. I don't think you personally know me well enough to like my tone or not. So, if I acted offensively then you got the wrong impression, when I simply asked people, or members of that board, to tell us all here why they voted in the way they voted, that then the president of the Committee would be involved, so you would be informed that the DSS members were at that session. Were they, were they not, I don't know, but it doesn't abolish the right for every MP including me who isn't a member of that committee to just get information from people who sort of decided on all this. I remain in the position that I can't believe that the Committee's session can't be scheduled, that people talk about this again, that they make a different opinion, or decision, because they are all aware, as we are here, that they have made one wrong decision and that they have broken the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22318	I apologize if in any way my performance has been negative for you. So you know how much I respect you and your efforts, especially since you are one of the most active MPs in this assembly. It's my personal assessment of how often you report and what you talk about, especially the laws. However, I just wanted to say my judgment to what you said, but not to get back in that circuit, as far as I'm concerned, I think everyone's right and they all said what they thought, and that we can move on according to the amendments. The word is made by MP Petar Petrovic, following an amendment to Article 1. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22319	Mr. Minister, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am a member of the Legislative Committee who, among other things, voted against this amendment, i.e. on the Committee on Justice, where I am president, did not accept it, and we voted on the Legislative Committee, when it comes to a concrete amendment, that it was in accordance with the law, and we said for some other amendments that they did not comply. I've been an MP in this assembly for a long time, and for the first time I've come into a situation that I have to, or I should explain to this house my opinion or the way I vote on a committee. I don't know where that conclusion comes from, or the search. It is the right of every member of Parliament to take part in the work of a committee or not to take part in the work of a committee, whether it is a member of a position or an opposition. It never occurred to me, nor will it fall, to call some members, and it happens that on the board on which I chair, members and their deputies from the post do not often come, so the quorum is made up of opposition members. Therefore, let us not ask here that any amendment to one of the MPs who are members of some committees that have considered these amendments explain why they have taken such a position or such. What would that lead us to? I'm just gonna take a field trip. Some time ago, as a member of the board, as chairman of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, I was overvoted by the members of the Committee and I had no idea of being against that decision, or of asking for an explanation from members of the Committee who voted contrary to my vote. Not then, not in the future. Therefore, let us return to the amendments and respect the democratic right of every MP in this Assembly and every member of the board to vote as he thinks we should, and the citizens will, when they do, assess whether they have consistently represented their interests and whether they have justified the votes won in the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22320	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22321	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do the amendment. I wanted to say in the introduction that this debate would probably look quite different if this law were adequate for the real reconstruction of the government. The law would be more extensive and extensive, and the discussion would be shorter, because the reason would be clear and the law would then have one excuse for much less forest of this kind, where everything and everything is discussed and the law discussed. It's not those who argue, it's the law, but it's not the law, it's the way the reconstruction was done. We all realized two days ago that this law is a measure of reconstruction and that it actually changes only one thing, one ministry divides into two, two resistors that were in one ministry, now they form the basis for two ministries, but when we look at that only cause in this law, it's not real, so that's why we can't talk about that thing by focusing on the right thing. Here's what I'm saying, it's not this division of the Ministry of Finance and Economy in two ministries, it's the product of some conceptal debate within the government or disputes that were being held for a month, it's the consequence of the government's decision to kick a part of the government out of the government, and according to that, the corresponding minister in charge of the economy and finance. When he left the government, it was then that it was for some reason that this united portfolio, a united ministry with two resolutions, needed to be divided into two ministries. It's all ad hoc, it's all on glass feet, it's all a matter of moment, it's a matter of political opportunity, it's a matter of political purpose of the day. There are no serious matters why this ministry would be divided into two. We know it well, because Dinkic is gone. Why did he leave? And we know that, but I'm not going to go into it, it was an internal debate, a struggle over a political cookie, where he lost that game, and now we need to seriously talk about a law that's reduced to a minimum, and that one thing we're discussing is made up. That's why this debate is going on, because people, they feel deceived, it's not about it, of course, there's also a fraud in politics, but they feel that all these ventures are somehow pointless, unsuspecting, could and without it, there are no serious political procedures within the government, the need for reconstruction, etc. If such an idea had been, even in this political context, that one minister holding two cabinets in one ministry had been expelled, it could have been a reason to make a more serious government restructuring, a more serious distribution of resolutions, and some MPs talked about it two days ago, and I thought they would talk more today, but they didn't. In fact, a year ago, it was combined incompatible, and apart what must be together. Simply, we have a lot of such examples, energy and environmental protection, a merger of the incompatible and you have seen in the amendments, colleagues who have invested their amendments, have argued that the pollutant and the one that should rebel against it and seek protection from the pollutants can not be in one resistor. You know, once reform communism had the ideal for the ruling party to be ruling at the same time by itself opposition. This is one big idea of reform communism that has failed and has been pointless in itself, because the government and the opposition must be developmental. So there are some things that are in some natural conflict, pollution and the fight against pollution cannot be under the same minister and it was known a year ago, but for some reason it was done what was done. The Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government was taken according to a photograph of the planned minister, because the party actually made its political concept out of regional development, so the state wanted to raise it to more political regions, so it gave it to its man as a minister, and since local self-government resembles some territorial division of government, it then joined. Such a reason could now easily be rejected, simply by separating these two things, regional development naturally belongs to the Ministry of Economy, because the regional economy, it is known to economists, has nothing to do with the territorial organisation of government, has never had a relationship, so neither today nor has the government managed to bring this together, and two incompatible things, or as I have already had the opportunity to say, trade and telecommunications. Telecommunications before they belong to traffic, etc. Even what was obvious, when the change had already taken place, and hence, and this kind of amendment and debate, but I am most concerned that this debate was neurotic, and it was neurotic because, in just a few months of public life, some serious thing was pumped that eventually it would turn out to be stuttered, and we all know it today. Don't expect a debate that will flow peacefully. I say, if everything was more serious, the opposition would have criticised the law anyway, but it would have been more constructive. That's what I'm sure of. According to what I'm talking about, I want to mention one problem, and there are more, and the main problems are these political ones. In the law itself, you don't have much reason to argue, but it is found here and there, except for this composition of the ministries I was talking about, in the end line we can have every opinion, but the exchange of opinions is valuable to achieve a good law, maybe the government would accept something that we didn't have the opportunity to do, because in fact this is a false debate about one non-existent thing, metaphorically speaking, but there is also in the law itself, as I said some problems. Let's say, this separate ministry, economy and finance, if it's already done and if it's already moving towards the EU is some badge of this government and some thing that needs to be historically identified, that after 1,000 years in historical textbooks it's said -- this government is, etc. Then it should have been done more carefully. If ministries and finance are separated, then the job of using pre-accession and various programmes should be placed in one or the other ministry, it cannot compete in both. Therefore, in the proposal for the Ministry of Finance, the area of competence stands – coordination of the governance system and implementation of EU-funded programmes, and in that article on the Ministry of Economy, you have that it performs the tasks of state administration relating to the implementation of infrastructure projects from various sources and from the funds of EU pre-accession funds and other international loans. The first thing, it is not divided into portfolios because pre-accession funds, money shared for specific projects in certain areas or components, as it is said, are also part of EU-funded programmes, absolutely not separated. He had to stand in one ministry, not both. Now, you know, if there are two finance and business ministers, you've probably been anticipating that there will be a jag that will manage the funds coming from the EU. Maybe that's, uh, distracting you, one bad anticiption. First, I would ask those who wrote these laws, did they question that these pre-accession funds would be in the period from 2014 to 2020 at all? Come on, let's say, if they follow the discussion about the EU budget, they can say -- it will be. The proposal adopted by the European Council last year unanimously contains some funds for those seven years for pre-accession funds, which parliament has not adopted yet. Let's say they adopt, do you know how much money is allocated to Serbia? You don't know because they're not split into countries that have that candidate status, and that's why they're accessing pre-accession funds. So now, as I say, there's a real rye, and there's a rabbit in the woods, and there's a lot more to be used for two rival hunting families, one belongs to the Ministry of Finance, and one belongs to the Ministry of Industry. It's one if you want a technical mistake, but I think it's mostly political, because to the European Union, those pre-accession funds, it's something that's simply a rescue for us and we're holding onto it like a straw strangler. In time, several years ago, when we participated in these pre-accession funds, only for two components we received between 190 and 290 million, the previous Deputy Prime Minister is in charge of European integration, Bozo Djelic, spoke – when we become candidates, we will have 500 to 600m euros per year. In March 2011, we became candidates, none of these couples, for 2011 and 2012, we received between 196 and 210 million, and for 2013 160 million. So it was falling. It was almost less than we lost at picking up customs revenue, which we deprived ourselves of because we're applying the SAA. I want to tell you what complex matter is. There, you can't say both, the ministry is taking money from the same source in the EU. Whether there will be money, whether there will be funds, how large it will be, to what extent it will be allocated to candidate countries, neither the Union has decided. So this is real, so let me say running in front of the ore. Finally, there's a lot to talk about, but here's what I'm saying is that there are technical problems in this, and I want to draw attention to that. Finally, let me draw attention to one more thing. So, when it comes to the ministries you've counted in this Article 1, you see these ministries as well as in each government covering certain areas of operation, certain resolutions, so it happens as in each government that more resolutions belong to a larger number of ministries, and that is, the matter of the government's skills and composition that they are properly distributed. We can see that it wasn't done last year, and this isn't fixed. However, what is clearly missing from this government is therefore the ministry that would deal with the most important and difficult issue of this government, which is Kosovo and Metohija. There is no Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, as it was not in the previous law, i.e. This law that's changing now. We talked about this very seriously last year, two parliamentary groups tabled an amendment, the arguments were that however in reality the government must permanently have this ministry because it is not known how this issue will be resolved. Let's say, at the very least, with regard to the United Kingdom, which has the Ministry of Northern Ireland, the problem lasts 40 years and will last another 40, but they don't change it. Whatever the government is, they have a ministry. The government that says -- we will never recognise an independent Kosovo, is probably thinking about the next, if it honestly says what it says. If we never admit it, one day it will enter its normal legal status and international legal and constitutional Serbia. Here's one reason why you're permanently holding the Ministry of Kosovo. That fact would oblige you to keep not only that problem within the government at the level of the ministry, meaning at the most serious level, but it would oblige you to continue to act at a high level and for international... which is there as much as you want and inwardly, in relation to that question. So now it's not a matter of day-to-day policy, nor some government orientation to say about the EU, or multisceptic towards the EU. It's a question of the government's seriousness over the issue, about the problem, which is indeed the biggest in the country. Turn around, turn around, he's the biggest in the country. In addition to him trying to bring down a little media debate about it, you can't do the most important thing, and that's the European Union, to move half a step if you don't solve that issue. That's proof that the question is important. It's probably better to keep your head in the sand than to discuss it, and it's probably better to build an office than the ministry, but it's not serious, that's what I'm talking about. I mean, it really is missing, no matter what specific policy the foreign and European government is doing. It's also an important question that we could do better, in a better atmosphere, to discuss in particular that the DSS tabled an amendment, and he didn't invest because he was holding on to those first remarks that I made, that this all turned out to be a consequence of one by saying the dispute within the government, a barrel in a glass of water. That's why we didn't consider it appropriate, to apply in any way formally to our contribution to improving this law, but of course that doesn't mean that we don't want to talk about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22322	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22323	Since I'm mentioned by name, I'm going to agree first with one part of what the predecessor said, which is that this law is an anti-climate thing of all that we've been able to listen to about our citizens for the last six months. I repeat, this is one big thing in the legal sense, this is the same law and no one can convince us or the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that someone, even much less talented, are not very talented who are currently executive and it took so long to just divide one ministry into two, and then bring back the one who was actually thrown out to the only place of the first deputy, the first vice president on the first committee for the only investor we might have in this country. Now what I can't agree with, and I mean it comes from someone who used to deal with European integration, has now introduced the ideology of that. I am proud that we fought together once and Mr. Samardzic, to remind you, thank you for your vote, for the former government of the Republic of Serbia... (President: Mr. Djelic, please don't speak directly to the Messenger. All right. There are MPs here, and I thank those MPs who used to be ministers in some joint governments, for empowering me to sign a Stabilisation Agreement which today criticises and as far as the funds are concerned... (President: Please listen to me, lest I exclude you, to be heard, I ask you to change to the amendment and do not address the MPs of the people. This is a replica, Mr. Chairman, I've been mentioned. You didn't hear me mention it? You gave me your word. I'm sorry, I thought you'd all heard that I was mentioned and that I was making supposedly some promises that weren't real. [[President: I didn't hear it, but I don't see the basis of the replica, I'm sorry.]] (President: Mr. Djelic, you had no basis for the replica, Mr. Samardzic did not mention you in any word, nor did your party, therefore, you have no right to replication, I apologize. Mr. Chairman, it's not because of me, but ask for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22324	You have no right, even if he mentioned you, it's not offensive, it's nothing, I didn't notice. The word is Mr. Samardzic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22325	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure, Article 27. Mr. Chairman, I don't think you're right to take away my colleague Djelic's word, because I mentioned it, and I mentioned it in one context that he really has the right to answer, in my opinion. In addition, the first sentence began to replicate what I said. He didn't say this like this, but it really happened, so I think you should give him the word to replicate. I'm the self-guarantee of it, and I might as well confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22326	Mr. Samardzic, please, do you claim to have said something offensive about Djelic? I'm just asking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22327	Article 104 says that not only offensive, but also wrongly interprets the views of the MPs of the other party. Maybe Mr. Djelic thought I did it wrong and I'm sure he does and I'm sure he wanted to talk about it, not offensively.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22328	The word is Mr. Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22329	I'm reporting based on a replica and a misrepresented attitude and linking it to my name. The MP confirmed, which is probably the whole of Serbia, and apparently not you, Mr. Chairman, heard that I was mentioned. I won't be long and I have no intention of discussing it here. We'll talk a little later. I just want to say about the essence. I agree with the one who mentioned me, that there is an additional and technically poorly done issue and matter of European integration here. Correction to error. I have never said that Serbia will receive 500m euros in pre-accession funds when it gets candidate status, but I have fought many people from our administration to provide additional funds in this, here in the coming EU financial perspective. We have succeeded in one, and this is a Fund called "Connect Europe in the area of infrastructure", to enable, in the proposed regulation, not security, but the possibility of the partial infrastructure of our territories being financed from that fund. It's the first time. What we're going to say is that this government hasn't done anything in a year, but nothing to ensure an increase in those funds. Nothing has happened, and I want to tell you, and that is another mistake, Mr Samardzic, you could see it when Commissioner File came to Belgrade, following an agreement between the EU leaders that was reached a few months ago, it is known that there will be pre-accession funds and, unfortunately, it is known that they will not be increased by one euro in nominal amount, which means that in real terms, unfortunately, they will fall further for our country and it is not only this government that is responsible, there is the crisis and the problem of the budget, but surely this government could have fought much more, and it has not done so, that Serbia will get some more pre-accession funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22330	Thank you. The word is Mr. Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22331	Replica. So I was a member of the Committee on European Integration when Mr Djelic ran these affairs in front of the government and I remember those sentences and those promises well, but it doesn't matter now. It is important next, and certainly Djelic can confirm that the Commission's policy was that, when we become candidates, we get funding for all five components, not just for the two of us, so he concluded from it that there would be more funds, and there were a few opportunities when this figure, which I mentioned, was said, which of course does not matter. In other things, of course, Mr. Phil, he makes a promise like any politician. As far as I know, the EU has not adopted a budget at the level of two competent authorities that do so. Parliament didn't do it. As far as I know, there are no allocations for potential candidate countries and quota candidates. It's quite possible that Mr. Phil said it wouldn't be the same or it would be the same, but it's just his sentence, and it's not reading any financial document that doesn't exist yet. That's what this is about. That is, therefore, a promise, and politicians, not only Serbian, but also European, should in principle not be trusted by word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22332	According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22333	I'm advertising a breach of Rule 106 of the Rules of Procedure. After the heated start of the debate, we had to correct the debate and bring it to a regular pace. We have now taken off again, and I really do not see the conceptual disagreement of some parliamentary groups around both the EU and Serbia's EU membership, I see nothing to do with the subject of this amendment. I ask you to bring this debate into some normal streams, to discuss the agenda point. There are also some policies that were led in the previous period. The Serbian Progressive Party and the government of the Republic of Serbia do not want an outstretched hand and do not want charity. It has been a perception in Serbia for a very long time, where the political elite has been sending a message and making such perception towards the EU -- it is enough to be members only or to enter some pre-accession funds, we will give hands and we do nothing, and the money will come. It's just not true and it just doesn't have to be that way. The Serbian Progressive Party wants a reformed Serbian society that will be composed of individuals, who, by their knowledge, skills, tools they have, to work and to live normally in the family of European peoples from their jobs. We don't want charity, we want a modern society where we can work, earn and live from our jobs. Mr. Chairman, please bring this debate into normal flows and let's talk about agenda points.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22334	Mr. Babic, I agree that we should discuss the agenda, but I must admit that you used the replica, too. Please, if the principle applies to you, it goes for Mr. Djelic and anyone. So, I agree, let's end the circle of replicas. The word is Mr. Djelic and please let us finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22335	You're right, which is that, according to the Lisbon Agreement, the Belgian Parliament has a greater part in this budgetary debate and we know how perilous it was, but it's over. The agreement has fallen not only between all the member states and the European Commission, but also with the European Parliament. Where you're right, and that's a matter of technique, that still needs to be voted on. Where you're wrong, it's that there is, of course, a regulation. There's got to be a debate on some basis and there's an allocation. We fought to make most of the pre-accession funds available for credit. In other words, those countries that have better projects get more. That reserve exists. Let it be my badge that I will attach to myself and other colleagues from the region here, but it's only 5% of the total. I fought, and for that I was authorized by all our colleagues in the region, to be about 20%. This is how it works with the EU - slow, but in some direction. Don't talk to me about unfulfilled EU promises. I believe that when I resigned from my post in the government on 9 December because I had engaged with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we would get candidate status by the end of that year, I showed the way, it seems to me that when we commit to something, we do so or we withdraw. I think it was a positive example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22336	Thank you. National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk ambassador Jelena Travar Miljević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22337	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues, I have proposed this amendment to separate the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, because I believe that the integration of contaminants and those who need to control them under the same leadership cannot provide effective control. As most members of the Committee on Environmental Protection are likely to know, this Committee has in the last year really devoted itself with full attention to the third function that we very rarely do in Parliament, which is a control function and we would often call on both polluters and those who control pollution at the Committee's sittings. What is sad is that we at these sessions have often come to the conclusion that institutions and institutions do not communicate with each other. And it's not something that depends on resources, it's something that depends solely on goodwill. Therefore, if we want better and faster communication, I think two ministries should be made of this one ministry. On the other hand, I think that energy should deal with investments, primarily large investments that have been announced during certain periods. When we look at all this, we can come to the conclusion that each region will receive one investment – Obrenovac, Kostolac, Stavalj, as new thermal power plants, new hydropower plants – Đerdap 3 and Drina, wind parks – cave and Banat. And I've witnessed how many times there's been a wind farm in Covin, and we see that something really doesn't work the right way, when after a few years there's still no license. I also think that we should pay particular attention to both biomass and biogas, not to mention the binding of gas and the production of healthy food, especially when I mention the fact that 30% of the regulation that needs to be harmonised when we open negotiations concerns environmental protection. A colleague of her own mentioned yesterday that it was over 500 sublegal acts, that 70% of those activities concerning environmental protection will be carried by local self-government. I think it is necessary to form a special environment ministry that will partner with local self-government, a partner with regional authorities. Because we'll agree that this is not a problem that can solve one ministry or one man. This is a man who can only be solved by the synchronised operation of the local, regional and republican level. Unfortunately, one of the serious challenges that Serbia has long been unable to address and which we are facing is the gradual transformation and adaptation of the energy sector to environmental protection requirements. I'll agree with a colleague who mentioned green energy. Also, I can't help but mention that some countries are having a serious debate and making plans by 2050 when talking about energy efficiency and insulating systems on construction facilities. I'm sorry that we're like a country away from it, but I also couldn't afford not to talk today about forming a special ministry. What I would ask the minister to reconsider this amendment once more is the very contradiction I received in my reasoning, in relation to what is mentioned in the bill. So, the bill, which separates the two ministries, says that it will not have certain financial effects, that it will not lead to an increase, and I was given an explanation when I reject this amendment that there will be an increase in the cost of the work of the state administration. As a member of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, I really do know and I firmly believe that there are people out there dealing with environmental protection. But this is one area that is incompatible, because we have come into a situation – cadiya sues you, cadia judges you. I'm sorry, but I have to put it that way, it's one of our old sayings. On the other hand, I don't see any efficiency in all of this unless we're creating partnership. We have not been able to communicate clearly enough with the province and republican institutions and the republican levels of government. We come into a situation where local self-government delivers data differently or some don't deliver it. And if we really want Serbia well, I don't see any reason why we shouldn't put one general question in a special ministry. Not to talk about black spots, not to talk about dumps and wild dumps, because I remember very well from 2006 to 2008 when I was, among other things, in charge of protecting the environment, where I personally don't see any big differences today. If we need 30% regulation to change, if the EU has something called a single environment policy, and I don't want to say that I want to do this just for the sake of the EU, I want to do this because of the future generations that are supposed to live in this country, where there used to be very clear rules. Isn't it sad that 50 years ago, we had organized cattle pits in our villages, and today we come across large cattle thrown by the road? I'm really sorry, and I don't want to affect this because it's my party's top priority, too. The URS and these governments join the EU, but it is also a top priority to create better conditions for the life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So I ask you to reconsider the possibility of accepting this amendment and providing an opportunity to protect the environment to gain its place in building partnership relations with civil society organisations, local government levels and regional government levels. On the other hand, all these investments I've been talking about in energy also lead to the creation of new jobs. It's something that we can make multiple points, or create benefits for our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22338	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic, then Aleksandar Jugovic, Predrag Markovic, Gordana Komic and Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22339	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support Mrs. Travar Miljević's amendment and I have been entering a very serious area called environmental protection, which is unfortunately in the past period, since the year since this Prime Minister's Government was established, I will agree whether Dacic or Vukic, since, according to officials, I cannot decide whose government he is. The government has formed three single area ministries, and it should be natural and rational for one ministry to take care of the area of environmental protection. It was immediately clear that there is no clear concept of what the environment is, what natural resources are, how they are managed and how the environment is protected. It was clear because not only did the three ministries deal with one area, which is nowhere, look parallelly and in parallel to what it looks like in other countries, it does not exist in this way, but also by abolishing the environmental fund, which former Minister Aleksandar Popovic established in 2004 and which was the most effective way of funding projects in the area of environmental protection. There's no such thing as more effective. Also in many countries it has been established, it is not his elaborate act, but it has been established as the best and most effective management mechanism in this area. That's why it was important for this mechanism to survive. But the mechanism has worked very well since 2004 until the arrival of Minister Dulic. It was then that when an excuse was lifted, an alibi to be abolished, because there were allegedly irregularities and thieving, theft, or as it was said very much in the media, and my fellow MPs from the government talked about it. As a citizen and as a MP, I wish we had an epilogue that was brought to the judicial authorities, but we don't, so we can't comment ahead. On the other hand, I have one more thing to say. The principle remained – a pay contaminant. Contaminants in this country pay one-off funds into Serbia's budget, but do Serbian citizens know where these funds are going? Are they going to protect the environment? They're not going. That's all I can say reliably. They're not going to protect the environment. They're going somewhere else, we can't know that. A year on committees, MPs hear only one sentence – we will make a better and more effective financing mechanism. He's still missing. There is no better and more effective. Please, do because it is necessary to finance projects, but there is no more effective. Now we hear, according to statements, that a budget fund will be created. I have to warn you right now, and if you do, you don't mind, it's just a waste of time. The damage can't be corrected, the damage of a year that way, because that's not the way it's supposed to work. The financing of the environment, gentlemen, must be public, there must be clear principles, clear criteria and citizens must have a feedback mechanism to get all the information where the funds they pay for have gone. On Monday, I heard that many of my colleagues from two now large parties in power, meaning SNS and SPS, were talking about the need to form a single ministry that will deal with environmental protection. I say hello, and I'm glad, because that's what the DSS has been saying for a year and no one can hear it. Of course, what the first vice president said here on Monday was very significant. He said they didn't have the courage to form this ministry, the kind of ministry it should be, so a single ministry that will deal with it. I'm amazed. The man who rode the tiger doesn't have the courage to build one single ministry to protect the environment. What kind of scary beast is behind this? Some tyrannosaur res. I'm just confused. We all realize that's how the ministry has to be formed. That's what we're all talking about, and the ministry's gone. The later mind is great, when we fix what we've ruined. But after a year, we haven't fixed what we've broken, we've moved on as usual, because we don't want to accept that we've done something wrong ourselves. Furthermore, significant funds belonging to local self-government were taken, which concerned vehicle registration fees. Did that fix the Serbian citizens' budget? It's not. It's a small fee. But they didn't go into local self-government fees so they could solve the issue. In Valjev, the problem is all the woods and all the parks in the city. Imagine where those funds could be from. It is clear to us that local self-government funds are actually taken away because we have to tell that story about the nickel and because people from the local self-government simply disagreed with the vision of Minister Bačević, that in Serbia the nickel will be exploited, so far unknown, but incredibly clean technology that is completely harmless. Of course it's science fiction. That's why I'm sorry Mr. Milivojevic's amendment was not accepted. The Democratic Party of Serbia has yet to speak only of this matter, the only one fighting in the right way, argued, with clear criteria and all others. We're still gonna say you made a mistake and you need to fix it. What you don't know, ask and listen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22340	The word is by MP Aleksandar Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22341	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues, respected ministers, responded to the amendment by counterpart Jelena Travar Miljevic, thinking that there are grounds for this amendment to be supported. However, when we look at the amendments of the other MPs: Vladimir Ilic and Vesna Kovač from the URS, then we see that they are not compatible, in that sense, in one proposal by Vesna Kovač and Vlad Ilic, who seems to be identical, we are talking about the merger of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, and in the amendment Jelena Travar Miljevic, their colleagues from the same parliamentary group, is again talking about the separation of these two ministries. We as an SPS and DHSS MP support the idea of separating the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Business. We believe, and I have found, in a conversation with professors and Stojan Stamenkovic and Miladin Kovacevic, that there is almost no practice anywhere in the world that the two ministries are connected. Perhaps this was the result of political trade in the formation of the last government and political will to control both the economy and finance and spending and savings and budget cuts and budget filling. Simply, these two ministries are in some conflict. So there's a conflict of interest and they're very different. The finance ministry should deal with consolidation of public finances, public sector reform, and, however, with spending. As many good steps as there are in some previous period and as much as the SPS and the DHSS support the application of the Brussels Agreement and Eurointegration and the start of negotiations with the EU in January next year, we are in some way opposed to the fact that the SPS has not yet issued the names of candidates for ministers. There is a much more transparent, far more determined SNS in the desire to reconstruct this government, given that it has given the Minister's names and that they are now exposed to criticism in a public, professional and political debate and that it seems to me the right way to get the right results and to have courts of people who can decide on the biography and professional competences of people who should take ministerial functions. I would also ask a question for the minister of justice – does the change in the future work of the Foreign Ministry, which states that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing the affairs of the state administration in the area of relations between the Republic of Serbia and the diaspora and Serbs in the region, as well as other tasks that are laid down by law, which determines the achievement of diaspora and Serbs in the region with the country of origin and other laws, mean that in one future period we will expect to expect, because the public wants to know, shutting down the diaspora office? So, what is most insolent, it is the secrecy of the SPS with its candidates, because their competences participate in the drafting of the ministry law. If they do not have personnel for the minister of traffic, they do so, so let it be Mrkonjic. Let them give candidates who could be subject to public criticism, to the professional public, so that we know who will be the future minister, and not that in the parliament we find out about their professional biographies and their competence to act as ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22342	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22343	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, yesterday I was just answering this question. Here, I'll repeat the answer. It's no problem. The diaspora office continues its work. These changes don't concern her at all. It is simply complementary to the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since the Diaspora and Serb law in the region provides for exclusive jurisdiction in certain matters of the ministry responsible for the diaspora, which is precisely these responsibilities that are counted in the complementarity of the SME area, so that the office continues its work. Let's say, in the event of an amendment or an addition to the law, it would have to be initiated by the government's competent ministry. In this case, it'll be the Foreign Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22344	The word has the People's MP Vladimir Ilic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22345	Just to explain this to my esteemed colleague about the alleged contradiction of our amendments. We're simply aware of what he was talking about. We wanted to give our amendments maximum opportunity and flexibility to the government, that if, from our concept from this session, which implies our idea to bring together the Ministry of Finance and Industry, that is to say, remain as they have so far, and separate the ecosystem from the Ministry of Energy, we only wanted our amendments to offer flexibility in the sense that if they did not accept the amendment that implies the merger of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, or left behind, they would at least accept this other option. This was the only objective of making the proposed amendments paradoxical at first sight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22346	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22347	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and for this tolerance, thank you to your colleagues. This is a good opportunity. We've heard a whole series of important Europeans, for citizens, for local self-government, important reasons why we've submitted this amendment, because the URS is handling the fact that, as you know, the only party that doesn't have a party, but has a state programme, as we party to the obligation, that when we've already come to this situation, as we've come, that instead of one kind of reconstruction we have another, I don't mind, I have a lot of understanding, everything is human, to take advantage of the opportunity as our people say, which we can do tonight. Now that we're here, let's get rid of other problems, not only of these environmental issues, but also of helping existing ministries, not of those who have problems in their own functioning, because it's a matter of ministries, but of having problems in operation with citizens and who punish citizens with the inability to organize a job, so that it's not that we leave them to do this kind of work that they're doing right now, and they're not able to do it, but to take it off their shoulders a little bit that they can't handle. Now let's get this straight, I never say, this has nothing to do with the minister, it's infinitely sweet to me and how she talks and what she looks like, but I'm interested, no, as they say, I don't listen to the ministers, I finally, people talk, I'm interested in how they work, so yesterday I got formally from that ministry, once again, it's not a minister, I got from a company that's called, and I support it, it's now an EPS bill, if I've defined correctly, a letter, yesterday on August 27th, where that firm, not realizing the fact, I support that it's being separated, can't the one who makes something, so he cares to cover the losses, that and to charge me. Let someone else charge. Everything's fine. I'm falling into those citizens who pay in time for electricity, responsible citizens who can pay in time and power and phone and info apartment, and that's why I make 5%, as you know, I belong even to that kind of citizen who, just so you know, I'm using my 15 minutes as an authorised representative, time, subscribe, because I don't want the EPS to fail because of me. You know why, do you remember this country being bombed, do you remember what the EPS people did back then? I'm overpaying. This new company, not only does it not realize that I overpaid, although with a very good organization it was extremely simple to get the notice that companies are splitting up, that the extra money I paid against my future obligations is now moving on to another company, but I get from a new company and a call to re-pay. He says, on that occasion, I'll have a 5% discount if I pay by August 26th, and the letter comes to me on August 27th. Do you know what that is? That's rude. They are informing me that I have so far had, not a discount, but a 95% penalty, and that in the future, the serious part of society, which is economically capable of paying its dues in time, will also be punished in the future. I don't think that's what the minister wanted. However, there is obviously no ability because of overcrowding in the ministry's affairs, there is no ability to do business in time technically. This is a nice opportunity, to at least cut some of the jobs down on that ministry. We're not interrupting anything. As I just advised - don't, people, let's spend our citizens' money and make it an empty session tomorrow. If only one MP lacks the ruling majority to begin the vote tonight, when the amendments are over, I will come and give the quorum. I guess it's better. I don't mind. I guess it's more important that I come personally than we spend on the Serbian citizens' budget for another completely extra session. So, there are a whole series of practical reasons here, to help, all that answers, to help the existing ministries that have a problem in operation, not in the goals, that we support, but in function, to function easier, and at the same time to get into a situation so that what doesn't work doesn't always work on their backs and that of those citizens who meet their obligations. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22348	Millysav Petronijevic, on what grounds? By amendment? You're not up, I'm sorry. I thought you had a replica or something. The word has the People's MP Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22349	Thank you. I would like to support the amendment submitted by the MP Jelena Travar Miljevic, my colleague. As a matter of fact, its intervention is the establishment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and I want to publicly support and say that if my vote for its amendment is 126 or for any order enough to be a majority, the chairman will have to suspend the vote, demand a stalemate and order the committee to submit an amendment defining the powers of the Ministry of Environment Protection. Fortunately, there are responsibilities in the documentation of my and the MP club DS that would also be agreed to by MP Jelena Travar Miljevic. That possibility is quite likely, if we're really listening to what we're all talking about here, the Ministry of Environmental Protection. When we listen to the saying that we are all in favour of the establishment of this ministry and it is not there, then we are inescapably wondering – why, who is stopping us from voting for the amendment of the Parliament of the People's Parliament of Jelena Travar Miljevic? Who's stopping us? If we really think what we're talking about, when we're talking about protecting the environment, and if we know what the Ministry of Environmental Protection means for the course of the negotiations. I repeat, if we really vote, then we will have to hold back the vote because jurisdiction will have to be subsequently adopted in the form of an amendment. Why do I support her amendment? Because we can't just talk about that there will be negotiations and there will be negotiations on all sectoral policies. We need to know what the content of these negotiations is. At least 40% of the total flow of negotiations falls to the area of environmental protection. Now we have a situation that only damage has been done in this area for this year. The legislative damage, the real damage and the neglect of one of the most important areas in which we all have to work if we really want to help the negotiations Serbia will have with the EU. In the negotiations on the environment and Chapter 27, we already have the collapse of legal fluids when it comes to Chapter 27 because of an unreasonable attitude about how important or not the environment is as an area and how the right of age is. On the other hand, the amendment to Jelena Travar Miljevic is a chance to support the establishment of the Ministry of Environmental Protection in the voting day. I'm not saying that because I think it's impossible, I'm saying it because I hope it's possible. That's the point of putting up with the amendment. That's the point of turning into action what we're all talking about. If we're not going to do that then don't get mad when after a short time of such an event we start talking, don't lie. Don't lie about the Chemical Agency. Don't lie about the budget fund. Do not lie about everything that cannot be lied to in negotiations with the EU, and that is all the beauty of these negotiations. Everything checks out. If we really want to do what we say we will do, then no matter where we're from, no matter what political party we're from, we vote for the amendment to Jelena Travar Miljevic. This shows the awareness and knowledge we are trying in words, under the assumption that we should sell as an EU attachment. The EU's commitment is in works, not in words. It's not in the floscules, it's in the negotiations that you have a unique attitude. In order to have as a country a unique position to represent the main negotiator, or anyone in the negotiations, you must have that unique attitude to achieve here in the Parliament, in the Government. Without a unique attitude, which we have as a state, there are no successful negotiations. One part of the negotiations even from the environment should be and remain a secret to the public until the last moment. But in order for all of this to happen, you have to have a place where it is structurally placed in the government of serious concern and knowledge about the environment. There is knowledge in the resources of all ministers who have so far cared about it, in the resources of professionals who, within the framework of the ministry and state administration, cared about the environmental sector. It's just a matter of will and will we accept that the resources that are ahead of us, right here in the palm of our hand, are really going to be used. I have no problem voting for any amendment that suggests introducing the environment ministry, but I have a problem with someone who says for themselves – I have the absolute overwhelming majority support of Serbian citizens behind me, I have an absolute majority in the government of Serbia, in the number of ministers, very much against telling me – but I cannot form a ministry for environmental protection. He can't do both. You either have a majority, or you take responsibility, or you don't. If you have this, then I want to see in voting day that we voted in favour of the amendment of colleague Travar Miljevic. After that, we will stall, and we will vote, of course, on the amendment of the committee that will be identical to the text of the amendment signed by my name and rejected, so I can't talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22350	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. With the work we continue at 16.00 hours, with the first speaker Ivan Karić and then Milisav Petronijevic. [[After a break.]] People's MPs, we continue to work on one request, the minister will be ten minutes late. The next speaker is Karic is not here, so when he comes, Milisav Petronijevic, but I have to ask you if you want to talk about the amendment. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22352	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to briefly put our position on the amendment to Article 1, because I think that these are essentially key amendments, all that remains later on to other members is just the logical consequence of what is proposed in the amendments to Article 1. When the amendments are looked at, the last thing we talk about, it's an amendment proposed that the current ministries remain the same, and that only the Ministry of Environmental Protection is singled out. I would like to say this - mostly Article 1 can be grouped with five groups or five types of amendments, one suggest that it be deleted, which means it remains the same, as the organisation is now. The second to bring together the economy and finance, and the rest to remain the same, the third to separate the economy and finance, while adding the Ministry of Environment, a concrete amendment that we are talking about, the fourth, to join the economy and finance, and to add the Ministry of Environment and the fifth, to separate the economy and finance, and the environment to join someone else. So we have five approaches when it comes to the organization, which is what all the ministries should have. They've all given their vision, of course. It's all legitimate. I respect that. Everyone has the right to take it out in the way they think it's best to organize the ministries. I believe everyone has correct reasons for that. I repeat, I respect all these opinions, but I would like to point out that the Government has also given its views in the organisation of ministries and the jurisdiction of the ministries, as proposed in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Ministry Act. I want to say that we will support this proposal, this approach, the one proposed by the government. I would like to point out that each government or those who make up the government has proposed an organisation of the ministries as they see it in the best possible way, with the best wishes to organise the ministries, to function in the best possible way. Each government, or all those who did it in the formation of the government, have suggested, let me use that expression of my draft ministry law, and every future government will do the same, until we can get to one universal model that will apply to all governments, and I would already support it in advance. If we take examples of all governments since 2000, different ministries have been, different organised responsibilities have been, but let's say, when these two pies were a concrete economy and finance and environmental protection, what has been around here most of the focus, let's say since 2000, only in the current composition, the current composition of the government has been a shared economy and finance. In all other governments, the finances were separate. Let's say 2001, 2004, 2007, 2008. In 2011, when reconstruction was also carried out, so was the vision of the then governments. When it comes to environmental protection, I want to support it, I have talked about it many times that approach, to pay much more attention to the area, because Serbia has many problems in the area. I spoke many times here, I spoke specifically about Obrenovac and Kostolec, I talked about a powerful mining-energy combination of Kolubara, which prepares for electricity production of over 50% of Serbia, but also the largest environmental degrader in the area. So I don't have any dilemma. I will support every approach and when it comes to the formation of a special ministry within some other ministries, I even agree that it should not be in this, but I respect what it is I believe, what Mr. Vukic himself said here, that they too have noticed and have announced that they will pay greater attention to it and seek better solutions. So, when it comes to environmental protection, just once in the government of Vojislav Kostunica in 2007, it was a special ministry. In all other governments, both in 2001 and in 2004 and in 2008 and in 2011 environmental protection was with others in the ministry. So we have different approaches, we have different examples, but what matters is the following. Of course, I repeat, I will support the government's approach and every government's right to propose to an organization that considers it the best possible way to implement its objectives. What I want to point out, the success of the government, the success of the ministries in all areas will be measured according to the results achieved, and not according to that, the citizens will remember and verify it, not much will they remember to whom the ministry belonged, etc. So, I believe, with all due respect to all the proposals that this proposal is the best that the government thinks, which should lead this country and therefore be defined for it. I repeat, success will be measured according to the results achieved, and I believe that this government will have results because we remember when it was formed, the same question is being questioned as now, then, in it, I can't say no one believed, but very little was believed, that today we would come into a situation that is expected too much of it, it is widely expected. The government that had little confidence, today is the government in which the citizens of Serbia, I don't speak here who are sitting in the hall, have great confidence. So only success, the results in these areas will be a criterion. In the end, I just want there to be no confusion, there was one question asked, why hasn't the SPS proposed candidates yet, what kind of mystery is that, etc? Please, there's no mystery, our senior or larger coalition partner came out with the final list yesterday, the SPS will come out tomorrow with the final list and everything will be on time and we don't have that problem that both the tabloids and others care about. Let me, as a member of the party's presidency, know a little more, which I directly participate in, I know a little more than the tabloids. We don't have a problem with people, we have a problem with a lot of quality ones, and we want to give, to propose the best solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22353	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22354	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will talk about the amendment to the point of the draft law at point one, but in order to get into that problem somehow, then I have to do something, some introduction. After the Petoctobar Revolution, that then the government threw itself on the economy and that our economy was somehow pulled out of that recession that was before that, they threw themselves into politics and politics, which is why I'm now talking about the amendment at point 1, which I'm not accepting and it's a good thing it's not the Justice Committee and these other committees have accepted this amendment for a simple reason, because it's in the extreme and conflict of interest. I don't know if it's around in the region or in countries, except for those whose GDP per capita is about 40, 50 to 100 thousand dollars, I accept that the Ministry of Finance can be united there and the Ministry of Finance, but since our economy is in this state, it's a conflict of interest for the economy and the Ministry of Finance, which is why it's going through the regions to unbalancedly develop regions because there's vanity, there are other reasons why they chose not to do it right. So, the SNS is going towards when it raises this country to have GDP per capita somewhere around 40 to 50,000 dollars, then we can split up and then we can reduce the ministries to lead three, four ministries, or then we have GDP per capita that we can normally live. I do not accept these proposals and it is good that the committees have refused to accept amendments that bring together the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy or the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Ecology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22355	Srdjan Milivojevic, on what basis? (Srdjan Milivojevic, from place: Replica)
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22356	Since false claims have been made on the basis of discussion of DS MPs about the economic situation since 2000 on the ground. So, I really remain serious when I say that some ministries in their name should have added the name of the science fiction ministry, because if people who were graves of the Serbian economy and Serbian economy by 2000 forget in what state the Republic of Serbia's budget, how much pensions and wages owed, and now promise us that the Republic of Serbia's budget will stabilise in such a way that GDP will be 50,000 euros per capita or dollar per capita as they say it is, I don't really know whether it's on the border of science fiction or not. One of your previous colleagues said -- you know, we're some new people, we're not the same, we're better. I have to ask you, by the year 2000, did you all hang out together in the goblets, standing on paintings on walls, or were you doing the most responsible duties in this country? You forget that you were in the government until 2000, do you forget that you owed 27 pensions, 22 child benefits, that you produced a budget deficit that was enormous, 170 percent was a budget deficit, and now you're rescuers? You really think there's some people sitting across the street who did the lobotomy and took out their brains and now erase their historical memory of your economic successes and results. Don't talk to us like that. Talk to the language of arguments and facts. Well, it's not like Alexander Vukic, today's first Deputy Prime Minister, doesn't know Alexander Vukic, Minister of Information in the Government until 2000. Are those the same people? Let's suggest that he do a DNA analysis when he gets here. Let's see if this is the man who led the Ministry of Information until 2000, that Tomislav Nikolic was the first Deputy Prime Minister in this country? (President: Time, Mr. Milivoevich. Don’t talk to us like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22357	The word has Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22358	As we return to history and return to some period of tens of years, although I don't think it really means anything to Serbian citizens, it won't do them any good, although I can see the anxiety in the voice of my colleagues and a single dose of hatred that can really and materially be felt and not for this high home, I can only remind them when he keeps reminding them of those 90s, why didn't the 90s bother him at the time when the previous government was doing with people who were representatives of that party? Why doesn't he mind if he continues to rule in Belgrade with them? What's that selective thing - these bother me, these don't bother me? Why does one correct relationship bother you, the relationship between normal civilized people, although the URS and Mr Dinkic are no longer in the Serbian government, why do you expect difficult words? Why do you expect a fight? Why do you expect us if we don't share the same values that we have to be blood enemies? No, we're not. How much more of that. Let's talk about what's waiting for Serbia tomorrow, what's waiting for next year, in the coming time. Will all be aware of what happened in the 1990s, what happened in 2001, 2002, 2005, 2006? What was it about this house when they wore TVs and pictures and I don't know what they were wearing on October 5th. What's it gonna be? If we're responsible for what was done then, I'll remind you, for 12 years you've exercised power, why haven't you prosecuted these people? Why didn't you condemn them both politically and legally and in any way? (President: Time.) No, you didn't, because it had nothing to do with it, and that repetition as a parrot, believe me, it means nothing to people in Serbia anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22359	Right on line, MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22360	I can't understand that some people can't understand that people change and that what happened yesterday isn't today, what happened the day before today, which is today, what it was 10 years ago isn't what it is today. So it's the only party that won't change and it won't move forward. So, the SNS with its coalition partners is trying to lead this gross social product per capita to the extent that we all live normally. Whoever's trying to stop us from having one of their visions or some of their stagnations in thinking, we can't figure it out. So you can't criticize something and it didn't come to that. Please accept something. You've been in power for 12 years. You have more ruined this country and its economy than you think we have ruined from the 1990s to 2000 with the war raids of these aggressors. You've ruined it more with the economy. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22361	Right on line, MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22362	It's nice for people to learn history, but it would be much better to learn in history. I told you last time that you could buy diplomas but not know how to run the country. You need to add up how much DS did not exercise power, but manage this country. Well, it's not 12 years, you know. It's a very big problem in your heads. From 2000 to 2003, we exercised power in this country, until Tomislav Nikolic appeared at the rally, when he followed Seselj to The Hague, that Tito, like Zoran Djindjic, had problems with his leg before he died. Then we lost power and had no engine change, but it wasn't said by anyone from the DS, it was you, when you were wearing badges. Don't hide behind history and be ashamed of your political past. We have waited 23 years for you to realize that Serbia's future is in the EU, to change. We have no problem being with the SPS in power both in Belgrade and in the Republic, but the SPS has accepted our system of values, and you have just accepted it. The biggest robbery that took place in Serbia since 2000 was the robbery and theft of the DS programme by the SNS. Due to the lack of your political ideas, you have taken over the DS programme and we welcome it. Our wish was to change for the better, no matter how long it took you 23 years to figure it out. I'd let you learn politics and government if I lived like this oak that you wanted to cut, for 600 years. What's four years of government in a 600-year oak life, but our human age is limited biologically. We're not like those oaks and, unfortunately, we remember that time of the 1990s. Don't let it hurt when we remind you. It hurts, I know it hurts, but you're wearing your cross. Well, did he not tell Tomislav Nikolic that he would carry his cross with him? (President: Time, Mr. Milivoevich. But I'm sorry that on that cross, Serbia was torn apart.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22363	Please, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if this kind of replica is going to solve our problem in the country, I'm going to let you talk about it all afternoon and live better tomorrow. Let's go to the amendments and settle this issue. Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22364	I will be very happy to take my previous speaker to the University of Belgrade Machine College, where in 1995, I obtained a degree in a graduated machine engineer, so that imputing such things, buying a degree and all of that, is not absolutely clear to me and I will be very happy to take him to a respectable scientific institution in Serbia. As for the system of value and some borrowing, not to say something more difficult than these systems of values, has the system of values been in Serbia for the past 12 years such that at the level of corruption we were first in Europe and among the first in the world? Who introduced this system and who is the personification of the fight against corruption and crime in Serbia? Serbia's Progressive Party and Mr. Aleksandar Vucic, and this is no longer disputed in Serbia. What system of values? Pushing challenges and pushing problems under the carpet? Who had the courage for courageous political decisions and for the conclusion of the Brussels Agreement, this government of the Republic of Serbia or everything we've heard for the past 12 years, clouding some reality? What government received a date for starting negotiations with the EU, some previous government or this government and a responsible SNS policy? It's one thing to declare, it's one thing to talk, it's one thing to worry about oak now in southern Serbia, and the other is what you did and what you do, that you left the City of Belgrade, the Boulevard of King Alexander without a single branch. It didn't bother you at the time, and now you have a problem with the oak because you want to slow down both this government and our society, but believe me, I'll send you one message – you won't succeed, no matter how much we do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22365	Right on line, MP Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22366	Replic on behalf of the parliamentary group. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Why didn't I mention the parliamentary group? ) The first thing, I really think, and indeed, here I am going to ask and agree with my colleague Babic to try to get back on the subject. Mr. Babico, dear colleague, I'm glad you brought up one thing we've been saying all along. If you remind us of the rule from 2008 to 2012, we will not get anywhere from 1990 to 2000. It's simple, I think citizens remember good things and bad things. So we're talking about the government, about the Ministry Act, about amendments that primarily concern what needs to be and that's where I agree with you. Thank you for finally realizing that we need to talk about what's going to happen and what the citizens of Serbia are going to live on, not those accusations that I don't think are going to lead anywhere. Do you see what that looks like? We don't think it's going anywhere, and it doesn't look anything like it. In the end, Mr. Granny, everything's fine with what you're saying, but to say that King Alexander's Boulevard doesn't have a single tree, that's not true. I know you don't live in Belgrade, but that's not true. That's the first thing. Anyone living in Belgrade knows it's not true, but you tell me which boulevard, which King Alexander? What boulevard do you mean? Who is this King Alexander you've been calling for the third time today? (Zoran Babic, from place: Lord of the Wolf.) ) No, we know where the Lord of Vucica is, it's now a street in all of Serbia, otherwise. You tell us who King Alexander is whose boulevard, when you've mentioned him for the third time today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22367	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22368	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think we're finally going in the right direction, going to look forward, looking and creating a future. I believe that all these spoken criticisms in the previous period referred to respected fellow SPS colleagues, who were personsification and policymakers in the 1990s, with all due respect to all that they are doing now, not SNS, which was created on 21 October 2008. I agree with that, and I often say that, and I often speak with numbers and numbers inexorably, because here, in this House, it was said that the fight against corruption was selective, that arrests and political arrests, that there were no charges, but I will disappoint you. I'm going to disappoint those people who took things out of their sleeves like that. Of the 117 charges filed in criminal proceedings following 1 August 2012, gentlemen 113 has been confirmed in the Special Court, 113 out of 117 has been confirmed. The main search is under way against nine people, and one judicial verdict has been reached. Another 63 indictments have been filed and confirmed for those investigations conducted earlier. Over 180 indictments have been filed and confirmed. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the scene: For what crime? ) For various crimes, but I don't think a colleague Stefanovic wants to hear these facts, so now he asks for what individual acts. This is the report and these are the charges filed and confirmed in the Special Court. So much for selectivity and so much for not being charged. So much for the truthfulness of the facts that amounts to DS too casually and too false.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22369	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22370	Mr. Chairman, I was patient, although I had the advantage. I advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure this time, but I'm not going to ask you to vote on it for the simple reason that you know whenever you violate the Rules of Procedure at the expense of the position, and in favour of the opposition, I'm not asking them to vote on it, and I'm allowing them to be slightly favoured. I believe that the replica under Articles 104 and 106 was given first to Mr Milivojevic, and that there was no basis for it, because he could not speak for the parliamentary group unless he, meanwhile, became head of the parliamentary group or authorised representative on this agenda point. This is the first replica and almost the last replica you gave to Mr Stefanovic because, in accordance with Article 104, Mr Babic did not mention the parliamentary group in an offensive manner so that he could answer the word. Also injured was a 106th member and a 107th member who had to talk about the subject. This is about diplomats, about oak like we don't know who wrote that project, who forgot that oak when he was doing the project. It's about everything but the topics that are on the agenda. There were also offensive expressions, deviations from the subject, dumping, unarticulated screams of those who claimed to have performed a lobotomy. If we accidentally opened some skulls, I believe we wouldn't have found anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22371	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22372	You know what? I once kept my mouth shut, Mr. Arsenovic. Next time, I won't. I'm waiting my turn to talk about the amendment, maybe on the way, I'll comment on what's going on, and you won't allow it. You've violated the Rules of Procedure twice, members 27 and 107. The first time an SNS MP said more damage had been done to this country for the past 12 years than during NATO bombing and war in the 1990s, and you kept it quiet. Whoever ruled for the last 12 years, and you know that the LDP didn't or at least didn't kill people, didn't bomb people, didn't hit people, wasn't the organizer or promoter of political murders that happened in the '90s, and I ask you to protect both this Parliament and the citizens of Serbia against such lies. The second time, when Mr. Risticevic said the opposition MPs here had nothing in their heads. Make up your mind whether you play that kind of discussion or we'll talk normally. I'd never say anyone had anything in their head. When my turn finally came, I thought I'd ask Mr. Toskovic to explain to me which country in the world is the GDP of $100,000 per capita? I don't think Mr. Toskovic says that because there's nothing in his head. I guess he's saying that because he's got some data in his head, so I thought we'd discuss it a little bit, but let's get to that point of normal communication.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22373	Mr. Djuric, as far as your application is concerned by the amendment, she's standing and you're the first. Unfortunately, you know that according to the Rules of Procedure, there is an advantage to replication and violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I have respected it. Turning away from the agenda, I've asked all the MPs and said that it doesn't lead to anything good, even if it saves us, to argue all day, but tomorrow to be better, and I'd accept that variant, but I know it won't make us feel better. I agree that we should not use offensive words and that it should be polite. I have no other way, only to be a hunter of every word that's spoken and only then to satisfy everything. I have to admit, I'm not in a position to hunt every word that's spoken here. Do you want us to make this clear on the day of the vote? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22374	With apologies to the MPs and to you and to the Serbian citizens for even entering this controversy and for the DS, it is over. So we won't answer again. However, I must ask one question and let both Serbian citizens and colleagues pay attention that we will not get an answer. My question, Mr. Babic, how many charges have been confirmed for the crime of organized crime since you've been in power? We're telling you zero. We told Mr. Wolf Zero. He got upset, he got upset about it, and I'm sorry he did. I wish there were a lot of them, but it's zero. When we read your newspaper and your media, it seems like there are thousands of them. The only thing there are thousands of ladies and gentlemen, that's the number of criminals you've released and who are now committing crimes. That's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22375	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica. I hope you end up with this replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22376	That will depend on whoever asks questions. The Serbian Progressive Party never has a problem with the truth, never has a problem with facts. The numbers are inexorable. Serbian citizens are looking for numbers, looking for facts and looking for the truth and getting it. 117 indictments were filed during criminal proceedings initiated after 1 August 2012. It was confirmed to 113 Mr. Stefanovic, who you thought you wouldn't get an answer for more than 10 seconds. The main search is under way against nine people, and one judicial verdict has been reached. In the reporting period, 63 indictments were filed following investigations conducted in the earlier period, making up a total of 180 indictees in 18 criminal proceedings, Mr Stefanovic. The largest number of criminal charges has been filed against persons who have committed a crime of abuse of official position, somehow you are most concerned about it, 152, then for the crime of abuse of the position of responsible person – 27, unauthorized production and placing on the market of intoxicating drugs – 22, fraud – 17 etc. The numbers are inexorable to Mr. Stefanovic. It's been permanently taken away from property that will take me days to read how long the property has been taken over over the past year. It's according to SNS policy, zero tolerance against crime and corruption, and there is no protection in this fight. You got the answer on time. You lied, I'm sorry, you weren't telling the truth when you warned Serbian citizens that they wouldn't get that answer. We're always ready for answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22377	Mr. Stefanovic, you promised not to do it again? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22378	I really do have to, Mr. Chairman. I think it's very important for the citizens of Serbia, too. As a People's MP, it's too sweet to keep quiet like this. Mr. Babic, I repeat the question you have not answered again. How many of the impressive charges you mentioned for the crime of organized crime? I'll tell you. Zero, Mr. Granny. Please look, don't read us the number of charges. I agree, we support, we wish there were more, Mr. Granny. If you advances give this answer to a specific direct question, I'd like to make a mistake, I'll tell you right away. Rejoice me, stand up now and say 30, 40, 130. But you'll say - you'll file charges, and you won't say organized crime. You won't say that, Mr. Granny. Now as you stood up proudly and said – Mr. Stefanovic avoids the truth, lies, so avoids it. I may be wrong, but what are we going to say about you if you stand up now, Mr. Granny? Now stand up and tell me how much this is for organized crime confirmed by the defendants. We asked Mr. Wolfie. He said he'd deliver it to us. I believe you. I'm telling you in advance that I believe you, just tell us, organized crime -- how many charges?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22379	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Bojan Djuric has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22380	Art. 27 and 116. Rules of Procedure. Mr Arsenovic, one metre ahead of you is the minister of justice, who instead of interrupting this debate, where criminal charges, procedures in progress and all other data are being discussed, whispered to the head of the parliamentary group or deputy head of his party's group to respond to the opposition. You know, Mr. Babico, I'm not against the use of phones in the O.R., but you run that working group for that bonton or whatever you call it and you want to ban phones. Have you received a message from Mr Selakovic in the past few minutes, when you have failed to hear yourself, or whisper to you exactly what the numbers are? I don't think it should be the subject of this debate as much complaining as the proceedings are being conducted, or that the government should defend itself by how many proceedings are being initiated. I think that in the end, the courts should do it, and that the minister of justice must react and end this kind of debate because it in some way endangers and destroys the position of courts first and foremost. It is your duty, Mr. Arsenovic, to sanction at least this kind of interference of the normal course of the session. It's really not funny.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22381	I agree, it's not funny. I have to say, I'm not the one here who needs to take care of what anyone whispers to and if they whisper. I didn't hear, so I don't think the Rules of Procedure were hurt. The word is by MP Nebojsa Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22382	Mr. Chairman, I think members of Rules 27 and 104 have been violated. The previous speaker, in the harshest way, abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure and told more lies. We have been witnessing in this room, in direct television, that Mr Babic has been sitting in this place for at least half an hour, that the minister is sitting in front of you, that the debate being conducted in parliament, not at all entering into what the debate is about, is being conducted independently of any whispering. You here have to prevent MPs from making assessments, desperately wanting to get involved in the debate, not or taking a political point, but rather making sure that what they're saying fits the truth and that what they're saying is in line with the agenda. Of course, what has been said and which may hurt, which has been filed and confirmed by many who have stolen the money of Serbian citizens and destroyed it, which will finally be brought to justice. We do not prejudge how these actions will end, nor do we call on anyone to do so. We're just saying that in the previous period there was no sign of it or very little, because someone didn't want to do it in the previous government. It is now done and Serbian citizens are able to reward. PRESIDENT: Mr Stefanovic, I must say that there are phenomena like this when you are chairing. It's our mirror. You can laugh. But this isn't funny to me. Understand that however you wish, but I try to be, although sometimes with a smile, serious to you and in some way appropriate to this work. I have to answer that, unfortunately, I can't keep track of the numbers and numbers that are true here. So many numbers are displayed that I don't believe that any ministry that would be sitting here would be without data to confirm whether someone is lying or not, or whether they're telling the exact exact data or not. On the other hand, I appreciate the criticism, but please also, that MPs take care when they talk about some problems and give the relevant facts as to how credible they are. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure also allow the MP here to speak and not bear the consequences of being spoken. That's what the Rules of Procedure says, and that's one problem I can't solve. I have to ask Mr. Stefanovic if he wants to make a statement about this injury? (No) Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22383	Article 32(2) has been broken. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Mr Arsenovic, who says the president of the National Assembly in the event of temporary prevention or absence replaces one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly. Now I was shocked when I realized that the president of the National Assembly was in the O.R. and that you were in charge of this session and that he was still telling you that you weren't doing it the right way. Is Mr Stefanovic currently absent or prevented? If he's prevented, what's to stop him from running the session and applying the Rules of Procedure the way he thinks he should? I think that if the President of Parliament is not a proposing, and in this case, we did not have that practice at the time that he is sitting in the bench and coming forward as a legislator, in this situation he should be in that position, holding a session and then eventually bringing all of us MPs in line, about the way he has increased the employment of young women by his law, but this is a special topic. We're not gonna talk about her until the other day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22384	Mr. Djuric, you are well aware that according to the Rules of Procedure, if the President of the National Assembly wants to address any basis of the Assembly, it is not from the seat of the chairman, but must sit in the parliamentary bench. That's how I realized it, that Mr. Stefanovic had the need to speak, and that's why he sat in the parliamentary bench. I don't think he's hurt his Rules of Procedure. But if you think so, you can also plead. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22385	Since I'm mentioned, let me just give you a quick answer. It's about preventing the president of the National Assembly from chairing. We had multiple times in the National Assembly of Duel, where MPs resented the chairman, whoever he was, if he addressed them from that place in a way that was not only for the purpose of holding a session, he also had a political tone. As colleagues today pointed out, as one of the 250 MPs, my right to the Rules of Procedure was given to sit and to address this house as an MP. Does it hurt that I'm fighting for women in this country to have a longer maternity leave and have more employment, and not just me, but many colleagues in this home? Would someone like it to be the opposite? I hope not, but I will continue, no matter what, to fight for this, to fight for the right of pregnant women, mothers and mothers to have a priority in this country in every sense and everything that is in my power, and that's what my colleagues know about it, that's what other women we've helped deal with at a difficult time, and you can ask them that. I don't want to talk about individual cases. This is a replica, I have the right to say what I think. So this will continue in the future and I will try to do everything in my power not to allow anyone to prevent the emancipation of women, their greater participation and the greater rights they will have in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22386	National MP Bojan Djuric has a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22387	I wouldn't ask for a replica if you hadn't given Mr. Stefanovic the right to replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. That's not allowed, but good, if that's what you decide. I have nothing against that emancipation of women. That's why I'm worried, Mr. Stefanovic. We told you that by changing the law, you would drive women out of the firm, that the number of young women who got the job would fall. After three and a half months of your law, it happened, Mr. Stefanovic, and I invite you to call in the session committees at which we will prove it to you. It's not an opportunity right now, let's stop discussing such a sensitive subject. In the end, the sticker remained “advantage for women and children”. According to various public institutions, more than 10% of the employment of women in reproductive periods or the period when the most women are born, exactly as we told you when you explained the law. But that's not the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22388	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22389	I have repeatedly been legitimate in this House with my professional training. Mr. Stefanovic isn't that. As a lawyer, it seems to me that there is no criminal offence of organized crime, but all these acts that have been brought up and confirmed charges fall within the scope of organized crime. So, all that I've told you, Mr Stefanovic, no matter how much it hurts, no matter how much it bothers you, is a report from the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime over the past year. I wish we could cross the spear here and you could wave a report like this from the previous report, but I'm afraid he'd stand on one side, like a blocker, one small side of some of the things that started and the other. But this is due to SNS policy, zero tolerance for crime and corruption, and there is no protection in that fight. As much as you want us to do something like that by throwing and obstructing and any other things to stop us from doing it, you won't stop us from making Serbia an orderly society in which crime and corruption will be a monster.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22390	Nebojsa Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22391	Unfortunately, here in the Assembly, there's such flat-rate information and there's so many false things that it's completely impossible, like you said, to follow what's going on. Not only have we been able to prevent employers from showing off to women whose contract expires, or to decide not to extend their contract, just because they were pregnant and maternity leave, not only have we managed to get these women to work today and stay on their jobs, but we have managed to make their employment a priority for this country, that this country is considering how to stimulate these people to work in the country. Unfortunately, these ideas could have come up in the previous period, but, you know, they didn't. She took care of other things then, how to get something, how to do it for herself, but not much for women, mothers, pregnant women, and maternity parents. I am pleased that at least the Committee on the Rights of the Child, which is very compact and very solid, has shown how it is done, showed unity, has shown that the MPs sitting on this committee are thinking about how to improve the lives of all citizens, and, unfortunately, I will point out once again, the absolute right to fight for priority, for children and pregnant women, and by calling in the public, and unfortunately, some have been hard to put on the sticker. They had so much will and desire to fight for women both for mothers and children and for families.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22392	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I beg you, I think we're really off topic right now. Alexander Pejcic has a breach of the Rules of Procedure and we're breaking up with replicas more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22393	Mr. Chairman, I am speaking to you, given that the law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act is on the agenda, I assume that you know this well, I would ask you to discuss and focus in this context. I hope that all MPs of the opposition and the positions, all those interested in this law, will accept and that we will continue to work regularly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22394	The word has been made by MP Bojan Djuric, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22395	Finally, let's go back to this debate on an amendment which, I say, essentially or in what has caused the most attention in this debate is the formation of a special ecological resistor. I agree with all the arguments that have been made in favor of that, the only doubt I have, which is why I have certain reserves in relation to it, is who would be the Minister of Ecology in the future government. This is one of the issues why the opposition is currently insisting, and the LDP and all other parties, that it is not the most normal situation that day, day and a half before the debate on the government's own reconstruction, the choice of ministers, we do not actually have the ministers' names. I don't think the government with as many ministries or with any other composition will be able to work normally, if as its principle, and once again, it's not this government that's now being elected, which will be elected in a few days, the first such government, because governments before it have been chosen by the same, I mean the wrong principle. If today, say, Mr. Arsic feels the need to say that the SNS does not interfere with who will be SPS ministers, because they did not interfere with them either, it is a legitimate political stance, I do not think it is good. I don't think that if this is the real government, it can be a compact team and I don't think it really depends much on whether or not we're going to have a separate Ministry of Ecology, whether it's going to be within some other resistor. We've talked a few times now about what LDP thinks, how much the government would have had to have a resistor. When we say 12 resistors, we don't think that the number itself is so important. We think that the state must have less authority, that the state interferes in less social relations, as is usually said, that the state eventually has fewer employees, or that it has perhaps the same staff, but that their quality, structure, organisation of work are different. That is why I am baffled when in the debate, which is part of the amendment concerning the Ministry of Ecology, but also in one part, the amendment actually re-establishs the division of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, when I hear the intensification that such government organisation, the new government programme, the new people who come to the government, will be turned to a new leaf, that it will stop with all negative phenomena in the past, and at the same time you, Mr Selakovic, have now come from a session of the government's decision to give the government a hand-to-hand loan to Simpo, so that Simpo will pay for the remaining contributions that he did not pay the PIO Fund. Is that the new reform? How many other businessmen in this country, Mr. Selakovic, have such a luxury that the government, and you talked, Mr. Babic, about crime, don't think it's far from crime when someone doesn't pay contributions to their workers, comes into a difficult situation, and then the state takes the money to fulfill his legal obligation to break it? What if it's not a crime? But more importantly, I don't think the fight against crime, against these individual cases, will raise the Serbian state and the Serbian economy. I think it will raise investment, a healthier business environment, equal market participants. What he thinks in this country today, and what women are doing here, Mr Stefanovic, depends on their jobs and their future, some small furniture producer, who sees news today that the government has given money to his competitor, Simpa, to settle a commitment he has not fulfilled in the past, while he, with his salaries paid to his workers, had to pay and contribute. Does this measure contribute to increasing employment and developing production or curbing the development of employment and production? What does he think, Mr. Selakovic, a foreign investor looking at it? Do you believe that he will come to a country where competition is unfair, where there is a state-owned factory of nightstands, mattresses and closets. Perhaps I can understand that as a temporary solution, in order to resolve a situation in which the state cannot in any other way pay off the obligations that Simpo has, but there are some questions before that. First, how many years have been waiting to get into this situation and how this is possible in a regulated legal order, and the second question is - the president of the company today said it would be a permanent solution since there are no customers for Simpo. I hope you'll answer me, Mr. Selakovic. This wasn't just a drama break. This is too serious. The president of your party's economic team, with this you will come, so you have separated the finance and economy ministries, said today -- sharp measures, cutting belts. PUPS said again - no belt cutting, we agreed. You gave Simpa a billion and one loan each and you gave them credit for the crafts. Where's the elemental order? It's not important the ministers' names in those vaults. We'll talk about it. Today, the government has tasked the new finance ministry to implement this measure. Will this be conducted by the finance ministry or the economy ministry on Saturday? Who's to blame? I understand, Mr. Ilic, that in the end Simpo accepted the government's proposals. I was hoping it wasn't part of that deal and it wasn't a loan. Mr. Babic says he graduated from the Faculty of Machines. I respect that. I graduated from law school. In my day, there has been no, they say, before that there have been questions that have been called – a non-refundable loan. Looks like we're slowly coming back at those times. It's nonsensical, paradox, in itself, but it looks like we're going back to those times again. Of course Simpo will never repay that loan, it's clear to everyone in this room. Mr Selakovic, if you were in the government, it will help us discuss how it is best to organise the future government of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22396	Mr. Predrag Markovic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22397	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, just so that I can stand in the defense of our amendment, as Mr. Petronijevic explained in detail, and I agree with that discussion, that here we have five completely different combinations, which, for the benefit of the citizens, can simply be solved in something different in this bill, starting with the fact that these changes and complement only the creation of a legal precondition to approach the election that was due to what was going on in the previous months. So we took care of all this, without costing the citizens of Serbia, and insinuating that it was a problematic amendment because it would ask for a new Minister of Ecology to be elected. Is it possible that's the problem? I know there are parties that have 20 candidates for three functions. Of those 20 when three are elected, or three are left with 17 that could be. So no candidate has been proposed yet. I don't see anyone in a hurry to propose candidates, so it's no problem that if this amendment is adopted, there's still time ooh. Otherwise, there are parties that have not yet proposed any candidates, they can propose in an hour from a large number of their representatives. So it's a technical question, and in no way does it affect what we're talking about. Thank you all for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22398	By amendment, Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22399	Thank you. It's a good thing we're back on the amendment discussion, and I think it's perfectly normal that whoever forms the government has the right to also submit a proposal for the Ministry Act. We've got one of those laws, and we need to discuss it. As I said yesterday, each of us has an opinion and it's legitimate, but not every one of us can get into the process, and especially it can't be voted. The government has proposed one law, and we need to make a statement about it, regardless of which each of us individually does not have to agree with that solution. In their discussions, some colleagues stressed that an increased number of ministries, which in this case increased by only one ministry, would affect the efficiency of the government's work. It can't be objectively said. As I have pointed out several times here, the efficiency of the government's work does not depend on the number of ministries, largely depending on how it realises the goals it sets for itself. I would like to finally understand that all well-intentioned proposals coming from MPs from different parliamentary groups have a certain procedure, some of them will be accepted, some not. The Serbian Progressive Party, which I am also a member of in the voting day, will accept the proposal made by the government and I hope that this proposal will pass, that we will move on slowly as planned and programmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22400	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. Do you want a word? The word has the People's Messenger Vesna Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22401	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President, honourable ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, when the bill comes from the government, first thing I do is turn around to read the explanation. What it says in this explanation is that because of the need to group equal jobs, about so, I'm paraphrasing, and all of this in order to apply the principle of rationalising state administration affairs, that the affairs of the state administration will now be done instead of in 17, in 18 ministries. I can tell you right now that I don't agree with that. When we talk about identical jobs, we can talk about the name of all the ministries listed in Article 1 of this bill, namely, if we talk about identical jobs, we have just talked about the amendment of my colleague Jelena Travar Miljevic, where in the government's explanation for the refusal of this amendment, we have just stated that the amendment is being rejected because the education of the new environment ministry would lead to an increase in costs for the work of the government's authority. I am now asking a question, and for the purpose of this rationalisation of the state administration – whether this separation of ministries also increases the cost of the work of the state administration. That's what my dilemma is. Of course, the URS take up, or remain in their position that this ministry should not be shared especially when we talk about this so-called. Same-time jobs, especially in view of the Prime Minister's exposés of the government that we cited. To achieve our economic goals, our opinion is that this ministry should continue as it has so far under the same name as it has functioned so far. Of course, it should be borne in mind that the URS do not have any personal goal, namely, it is certain that Minister Dinkic will not be the finance and economy minister, nor the finance minister, nor the economy minister. So, we don't have this personal requirement for this ministry to remain unique but it is certainly better for the conduct of economic policy in the government of the Republic of Serbia to remain as a single ministry. I wouldn't be long. It's getting a lot on this subject. I really agree with colleagues who spoke in favour of the survival of the single ministry, there are many reasons for this. So I'm going to ask my colleagues to reconsider this proposal, this amendment, and possibly support this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22402	Thank you. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. Do you want a word? Mr. Ilic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22403	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, after this break, we can continue, yet this law is as quick as it is written, yet it paints largely the essence of this reconstruction. In the principle debate, I said that it is neither deep, nor fundamental, but it is personal, and it is seen from the very text of the law. You had a chance to hear from my colleagues that the view of the URS is that the Ministry of Finance and Business should remain one ministry. There's a lot of arguments for that. Maybe it's an argument my colleague mentioned. It's not about anyone personally. We could say – well, we are no longer in the government, Mladjan Dinkic is not a minister, everything is what will be. Listen to the reason - according to the reasons for the adoption of this law, and while respecting the principle of rationality in organising the conduct of public administration affairs, Article 1 of this law proposes that the conduct of public administration affairs be organised within 18 ministries. The principle of rationality says it's more rational that instead of 17 we're 18. So 17 is more than 18, according to this principle as understood here. It's really paradoxical, or it's something else entirely. Why, among other things, should we leave this ministry together? Well, from something we've had so far in practice. Here, hypothetically, two future ministers may not be in good relations. That's what happened in previous governments. Even now we have had the opportunity to hear through social networks some kind of dispute between future ministers, at this point, candidates. This can lead to serious consequences in leading the government's economic policy. Decisions, laws, solutions made by the finance ministry, as a rule, are mostly reflected in the economy ministry. Sometimes negative, sometimes positive. If the finance ministry introduces taxes, restrictions, quotas or anything like that, it directly affects the economy. So what is necessary is that coordination between these two ministries, and it is achieved in the most efficient way if it is united into one ministry, or in one person, or one minister. In a way, I think the government's proposal and a compliment to the URS and Mladjan Dinkic. I can understand this proposal and as that kind of compliment that no one but the Young People can run these two ministries, so that it takes two people personally for one such job. That, so-called. The mega ministry, as we have had the opportunity to hear so far, is not really a mega ministry, but is a reflection of an economic policy that implies co-ordination of the finance ministry and the economy ministry. If we were to follow that resolution and that argument, we could conclude, given that the government has mega problems and will have them, we can subsequently conclude that this requires two prime ministers, so that one prime minister runs one part of the government and the other part of the government. I just want to point out the logic of someone who writes the law that there's no logic in that. If Serbia is in the most difficult economic crisis in the last 10 years, then the first priority is precisely the synchronisation of these two key policies, so the finance ministry, the economy ministry. And here's a few practical indicators that that's the case. The measures, brought by this government both in terms of rebalancing and before that, have become effective because they have just respected the needs of the Serbian economy and the need to stabilise public finances. We now have an excellent budget charge, a zero tax-free tolerance has begun, we have economic growth that is not significant, but that is far greater than the previous year and we have export growth. I also want to take this opportunity to use one piece of information, which has been manipulated here for months, we have, however, not significant, but a decline in unemployment from 25.5% to 24.2%. This data also manipulates additional data, which is also true, the growth of those working in Serbia by 28,000 compared to the same period last year. The source of this data is RZS. I ask all those who manipulate the data on the number of unemployed, employees, to call us to the source, because we have heard the flat-rate estimates that it is the growth of those who are looking for a job for more than 40,000. I want us all to use, first of all, the fact that the debate would be quality. The united regions of Serbia expect the government to accept the amendment. My colleagues spoke earlier about the need to separate the Ministry of Energy and the Environment. Of course I support it, and accepting this amendment would actually solve these dilemmas that I've brought forward. However, I know this is difficult for this government, because actually by accepting this amendment, it would mean that there was no need to amend the Ministry Act, because these are key changes. But either way, I doubt the amendment will be accepted and, in that sense, the RAS parliamentary group will not be able to support the amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22404	The word is Mr. Pejcic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22405	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Minister Selakovic, we have been talking for four hours about the details of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministry, whose proposal is precisely your Ministry of Justice and State Administration. Since your ministry has monitored the government's previous six months of work with one vigorous measure, it has been trying to eliminate certain anomalies that have occurred in that government. However, this is a factual introduction to the government's reconstruction, the government that Prime Minister Dacic said made a historic success, that one of the best governments in the previous period, only then resigned nine ministers from the government. Is it true that this government has actually made a historic success when nine ministers disagree with the minister's findings and resign. In fact, why is this law in the process and why is it in the congregation benches? For one simple reason, because a big rock was made in the government, because Mr. Dacic and Mr. Vukic changed places. We got a fact king, that's Mr. Wolf. But Mr. Dacic, in order to save the place, tries to resort to one wisdom, throws Mr. Dinkic not on the bench for the spare players, but on the stands. But to make the dance bigger, Mr. Vukic returns it to the spare-player bench. This law is passed for only one simple reason to divide the spoils of war. A prey that had its own time URS, i.e. their resistors. We now, in accordance with this amendment, see that one ministry is divided into two. Since we know which candidates will be ministers, we also see dissonant tones in the government itself. We see that young Lazar Krstic, who was supposed to be finance minister, is welcomed from a political option that leads social policy, and now we, Serbian citizens, are confused. What kind of social policy is going to be run in this government in the first place? Will Serbian citizens benefit from this government reconstruction in the first place? What kind of policy will you have when you can't agree on the reform of the pension system and on social giving? The Democratic Party of Serbia, and you see for yourself, has not responded to this law in amendment, because we consider this to be a farce. We believe that this law will get nothing from the citizens of Serbia. The most important thing in this situation is not the government's reconstruction, it's not the government's rebalancing, it's the reconstruction of the government's policy. A fundamental change in policy and according to national issues, how we will preserve KIM and perhaps some other territory of our country, according to economic issues, on social issues and on all those issues that are relevant to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22406	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22407	Here, just these discussions by colleagues Ilic, co-worker Kovac and colleagues Miljevic, or their proposals, show that I was right when I said that each of us had a vision. The previous discussion shows that we all have our opinions and that we tie them to this reconstruction, that is, this proposal. None of us are so psychic as to know what was in the proposing's heads, and why it was suggested that the amendments to the law look like they were presented to us. But the moment the current prime minister was given a mandate from the president of the state to form a government, it is his right to determine which team he will work with. His right is, but he's going to take all the consequences if that government doesn't succeed. It doesn't necessarily mean that these nine ministers resigned because they were doing bad work, maybe they weren't doing well enough, and maybe they're not ready to do whatever the prime minister wants them to do. That is why I believe that the proposal proposed by the Government, namely the proposal and the new composition to be given by the Prime Minister, is his right and we can agree or disagree. So we're going to have to wait until the day we get the Prime Minister's proposal for the Prime Minister's composition and then we're going to have to criticise personal solutions and everything else. Today, I think that we can only agree on the proposal made by the Government and continue in our discussions to act on this proposal to agree or disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22408	Thank you. Mr. Babic, replica to the exhibition. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22409	I thank you, Mr. President. I'm kind of sorry that Mr. Samardzic is not here today, and in today's presentation of Mr. Pejcic, she kind of burned my ears out of that sentence- the division of the prey. I'm not sure if this division of prey is a termological concept from a time when you formed some governments, so you have that experience, and that's the kind of negotiation you had at the time, so it was a division of prey. In this case, the Serbian Progressive Party is also responsible for taking responsibility for Mr. Pejcic, at a time when the state register is empty, unfortunately, when the economy is in a decades-long downward path, when unemployment is at the historic maximum, when all economic indicators are difficult. It can't be something that's empty. How can prey be an empty register and an empty budget? The prey is when it is much and where happiness is that we have entered and made a government and found a full register, but it simply is not so, and it cannot be prey, but the responsibility of leaving in the coming period and for some future governments to be full, a country that will be arranged, satisfied people, citizens of Serbia who will work and live from their jobs. But, division of prey, I'm afraid it's a termological thing from a period of time when you had the responsibility to form governments.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22410	Mr. Pejcic. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22411	I thank Mr Babic, you remember the period when the Democratic Party of Serbia led this government, then it was the best time to live in Serbia. You could have noticed one important fact that my discussion was in favor of your and your political options. So, you said, Mr. Stefanovic, Zoran Stevanovic, that it is best for the prime minister to be Mr. Vukic in this government. My discussion went in that context. If you already think he should be prime minister, you did not do so in this government reconstruction, so it is best, that is also a proposal by the Democratic Party of Serbia to go to the elections and legitimately, since at this point you are the party that is the most sympathetic, voters, however you like, it would be best to go to the elections and show the will of the citizens and in this context Mr. Vukic would be prime minister. So my discussion wasn't in any way to talk about the Serbian Progressive Party pesoriously, but to talk about the real situation in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22412	The replica, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22413	I'm afraid you're not being very honest. In this call of elections at this time, I think almost no political option, except for the SNS would be in a falling number by the representatives, some likely that we wouldn't even have representatives in this high house, but I think the sparrows on the branch have remembered and remembered and the citizens of Serbia recognized the SNS's desire to deal with problems, to go to the challenges, to solve economic problems, to solve everything that weighs down on our society. We do not want to view politics and to view Serbia as a prey, as you just said and to materialise that advantage, we want Serbian citizens to live better than we do. Therefore, there are 65 MPs, members of the SNS, who will repeat such a policy to you and such a wish and such a position of the SNS again. It's quite a number at this point, so no one else has to represent the ideas and politics of the SNS, that's what we'll do. On our behalf, do not call on elections or call elections. For the elections, we are always ready, always ready to accept the electoral will, always ready to accept the will of the citizens of Serbia, but at this point we want to devote ourselves to a better life for the citizens of Serbia, we want to focus on the further fight against crime and corruption, the acceleration of Serbia towards full membership in the EU, the reform of our society, and that is the desire of the SNS. So we've got enough people here to confirm something very professional and very quality for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22414	Mr. Pejcic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22415	I can agree with you that it's a wish, it was our wish. We have our wish and we have implemented it when we were in power. At the time, the personal income of Serbian citizens was 426 euros, the unemployment rate 14%, foreign investment four to six billion. So we did our policy when we were in power. It's up to you, Mr. Babico, on your political option, that now that you're in power, you're just doing these things and I hope you'll be successful. When it comes to elections, the DSS is always ready for elections, and we have talked about it, Mr. Babic, that the best thing at this point is not to rebuild the government, but to go to elections, to have legitimate representatives here, to have legitimate representatives in the government who will implement the policy that you want, and nothing is disputed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22416	We interrupt the replicas here. Members of the 1st Amendment, with correction, were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Karic, Borislav Stefanovic, Ljiljana Lučić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Dejan Nikolic and Gordana Comic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Ivan Karic. Here you go. (Riza Halimi, from the scene: "I'm fifth in line." I'm sorry, but, Mr. Halimi, you have after this, your amendment is after this in my reminder, in my order your amendment is next, but it certainly comes next after this, when I have already given Mr. Karic the word, but by order it's next, it's not before this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22417	I thank you and you almost caught me unprepared. I've had Mr. Riza Halimi on paper before. The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, when we handed over the amendment to the amendments to the Ministry Act, I thought I could use my two minutes, whether I should pay tribute to the environment for a minute that doesn't exist or use two minutes to try to change something when it comes to the anti-ecological policy of this government. Since very often silence is not understood properly here, then it is better to say something and try to do something to protect the environment, to protect both sustainable and proper management of natural resources. Our proposal does not change the number of ministries, our proposal would, if I were to say, go back a year, we would not lose a year, the environment in Serbia would not be in worse shape, chemical control would not be in an inadmissible bad state, the quality of the environment would not be in worse shape, and no non-intentional environmental resources would be spent for a year, which all major plants and all large polluters would be paid into the budget. It unfortunately ends again against the law in the Ministry of Finance, it is likely to correct it in this next one, it has nothing to do with what we are proposing, but I hope you will stop illegally and unintendedly spending the funds paid by the polluter and accept this amendment that combines two user activities, that is energy and mining, and on the other hand combines environmental protection, natural resources and spatial planning. We had in mind the desire to behave rationally. In that sense, the proposal was not to increase the number of ministries, and so our proposals went. I'm sorry that all this time, oak and oak stories, you see as your defeat. Unfortunately, no one won, and no one should have won. We were hoping that you would understand the importance of oak, the symbol of oak today in Serbia, and that ecological consciousness would become at least a little larger. Unfortunately, it is getting smaller and smaller, and oak is a symbol of ignorance, intricacies, bad planning, haughtiness and thoughtlessness. It has nothing to do with just your year, it has to do with, unfortunately, all 23 years of the multi-party system in Serbia and it is a symbol of the state of the environment. Unfortunately, if it hadn't been for unintelligence, if it hadn't been for intricacies if it hadn't been for bad planning, if it hadn't been for big builders, if it hadn't been for recklessness, that oak wouldn't have been in the way, it would have been where it is for 600 years. The way would have been done anyway. No one here disputes development or civilization. The future economy is a green economy. We're not preparing for the future. The diseases of the future or today are environmental diseases as a consequence of climate change and a major environmental impact to the environment. We're not preparing for that future. Finally, since we talk a lot about the way to the EU and only this, without understanding the processes that are happening in the 21st century in Germany, France, about what green economy means, what sustainable development means, I hope that this one-year anti-ecological policy of the government, the absence of the Ministry of Environment, natural resources will not be the brakes of EU entry because it will be very important in the negotiations. I fear that the moment you find out or we all discover together that this is a problem in joining the EU, then we will think about how to make the shepherds around oaks, and the shepherds around the environment in Serbia and the health of the population cannot be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22418	By amendment, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22419	For the sake of truth, I could not remain indemnity to the words of our previous speaker that the state, or the government of Serbia, was leading an anti-ecological policy. The oak issue has become an environmental issue in Serbia which, of course, is not true, because even presenting the Green Serbia programme in general through the attack of environmental points and problems turns out to be a good DS marketing campaign. That's one. Two, if we want the oak issue to open up essentially, then let's ask the question why in one project, what permission for a corridor project on that route was found oak, and the permit was issued by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanism and Building, chaired by Mr Oliver Dulic, how did the oak on that route find itself and how did no one react before that, because the projects were done for three years? Therefore, there is obviously a replacement on our political scene for oak. As for the need for the EU, I believe that the proposals relating to the formation of a new ministry are not complete, i.e. the EU is seeking an integrated solution to environmental problems. It is necessary to transform not only three ministries, but to assume competences from three other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22420	Right on line, MP Ivan Karic. Here you go. I thank you. My colleague obviously didn't listen to what I was talking about. I wasn't talking about, as she said, the ecological oak policy, but about the oak symbol today in Serbia and what oak means in a symbolic sense. She's obviously mixed up parties, obviously mixed up years. Unlike you, I have never participated in a republican government for these 23 years, and you have not defended them in Belgrade. It couldn't have gotten to the public. When I defended the payroll, you defended the Hague indictees. I'm sorry to have to remind you, but you remind me of something I've neither participated in, nor been part of, and I've always objected, but you've created a system in Serbia that cannot hear the voice of ordinary citizens, along with most other parties, where it's not the voice of ordinary citizens, but it's important what the party headquarters thinks. It's not a green policy, and that's why we're talking about oak, and that's why we're looking for a single environment, natural resources, and, in this case, spatial planning. That's why we sent three and a half months ago to the Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister and some other ministers how it should look unique, integrated, sustainable Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, and the oak protection campaign was run by civil associations, Green Serbia, and Greens from Brussels joined. The European Green Party supports and the things we talk about, that the development in the 21st century does not go without ecologicals, without cultural heritage and without the protection of the environment. No one else participated in the campaign, and you should leave your prejudices at home. Mr Babic spoke very nicely of it and said he had not participated in some of the previous times. I don't know what you're respecting me for when it comes to past times. Right on line, MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22422	Dear Chairman, counterpart Karic has obviously missed the topic of me concerning the Hague indictees. That's one. As for the oak itself and the stories of it at all, I don't know why Green Serbia is on the DS list and why they didn't say DS - well, you've issued the wrong building permit, you've compromised natural resources, you've compromised the environment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22423	Right on line, MP Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would really like to bring down a story about an oak to a understandable story, to use facts, to use what life is. All that dusting around that oak will cost the state of Serbia and all our citizens between one million and two million euros. All of this will cost our country a lot of time of new projects, tours, security, and in that time, lives will continue to be lost on that path. It doesn't pass a day without us reading the news, and we don't get horrified, and we don't try to forget that news about some people getting killed on that road. What is more valuable – the life of a human or the life of a oak? What do we need to propagate – life in Serbia or the forest in Serbia? What's more valuable? What is the state on – oak or human? Who's gonna take responsibility? Who will take responsibility for the lost time, for the lost lives of that time? Who will take responsibility for the money that will be spent, and for this truth teller, according to the formula of the former governments, could employ hundreds of people in Serbia? What's our company stand on? What is our country – in the forest, in the tree, in the stone or in the people? I'll always vote for people. I will always vote for people and for life in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22425	Right on line, MP Ivan Karic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22426	Thank you, Mr. President. This is a classic replacement thesis. It's not the oak that has no medicine, it's your ministers. It's not the oak that kills people on the Ibaric Master's Office. It's the incompetent ministers. Shame on you. Don't lie to people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22427	Mr. Kariæu, please compare your presentations to the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22428	Don't put your words in my mouth and don't make up arguments I didn't say. Because of the incompetent directors of various institutions, fund-raisers don't have drugs and don't go to treatment. Incapacitated infrastructure ministers, buildings, traffic, people get killed, not oak. I can tell you how many people died last year and how many people he wasn't born. I can tell you how many people have cancer in Obrenovac, Kostolci, Pancheva because environmental protection doesn't have the status it should have. The oak itself is not crucial. You raised him to the pedestal to be or not to be. The oak here is a symbol of Serbia's setback and slowdown. Serbia's future is a green economy, environmental protection, the voice of citizens you don't listen to, and we want to help you make this country feel better. All our proposals regarding the ministries are not that the government would be better than that in the state it would be better. In that sense are our amendments. Don't be so brutal as to replace the thesis and use things that shouldn't be used in the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22429	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22430	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, perhaps my colleague has gone a little too far. The oak in the Serb people was never a symbol of backwardness, but of firmness, and the beech was a symbol of backwardness. If he was talking about medications, let him walk to the president of the DS with whose MPs sitting and asking the pharmacy "Belgrade" why she didn't get the drugs. It's not even the funds that made money for those drugs, or the laws that were passed, and someone didn't want to implement them. As for the incompetent ministers, we have seen where the previous ministers have seen us, and some of you sit in that same parliamentary group, have brought us. When you mention Kostolac and the Fireman they were in power when people were poisoned, both by ashes and smokes. When it comes to traffic, how long is this Corridor being made? About last year, Preshev was in the same place as three years ago. Nothing happened. The payment ramp of the fireman with two simple tin houses was set for a year because no funds were provided. They made a payment ramp for a year. What are you talking about? As for the vote of the citizens, believe me, we would never be on the streets, and we would be taking political views if we had the right to speak to the media, that they would faithfully and truthfully convey a picture of our political position. That's why we had a rally, two in 2011, the biggest Serbia knows and knows. Don't give us so much respect. We live with these citizens and live with the problems Serbia has, and some of them seem to me while in power, alienated from these same citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22431	Since there's been a lot of reports, does anyone have any rules of procedure? (No) The first has the word of Parliamentarian Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22432	To avoid confusion, the replica is based on personal mention. For good information from Mr Karic, the state of Serbia has released and finished 22.5km of highway this year. In the next 10 days, the new seven kilometers will be released. By the end of the year, the government of the Republic of Serbia made highways full of 40km. Are we satisfied? No, 52 kilometers is a European average, but we're trying to do that and it's going to be in the coming years. A question for you, Mr. Karic, if you honor the Ibar Highway of this government of the Republic of Serbia and us that people are killed there, somehow I can't forget the former president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Boris Tadic, who confused people on some construction sites with some helmets, with a couple of trucks behind him when he spoke - here's the "engineway". Well, at least you built a track for the engine, five feet wide, so that would mean, but you didn't do anything. You didn't mind standing on that list that had the name of that man who did something like that. You didn't personally work, but you accepted the value of it as soon as you stepped on that list. As you protected the canvass, so they were paid and ended up in the city of Belgrade, in the boulevard of King Alexander, they are gone. They were torn down so that a trail could be made for Spanish trams, not for the Belgraders to be better. That's the policy you represent and that's the values you represent. That's the truth that must have a name and a last name and that must have a nominal amount.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22433	The word has a National MP Ivan Karic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22434	Dear President, to say that in perhaps insufficient knowledge of Serbian, I could not find another word. If I hurt someone, I apologize, I simply called the lie by another name, and if it offends anyone, accept my apology. We have been talking here for a year and Green Serbia is talking about the need for a single ministry of environmental protection and economic resources. We'll keep working on that. We've been working this year and some of my colleagues from other parliamentary groups have been working on it very hard. It took some a year for them to understand, so here they are now working to protect the environment to get the observed place and that during the EU accession they will have to and how to take care of environmental protection and everything we are talking about, and these are green investment funds, green funds, green economies, the economy, the economy of the future or already the present in some European countries is recycling and the collection of waste renewable energy sources, and that was the wish of this amendment, and that's what we wanted to show this amendment. I'm sorry you're so respectful of me, and now you're sitting together in power with people who wouldn't have crossed the censorship if it hadn't been for Boris Tadic, same as me. It doesn't bother you, and it bothers you that I have my own policy and that I've stood up for it for a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22435	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22436	I'm reporting for this declared amendment. First comment on the deadlines, six months of stories, raising tension in society and ultimately a law that's one big nothing that you've given us a little time to rewrite at all. That's why I'm grateful I don't know who here in the Assembly on the fact that we in DS at least managed to put some amendments on the agenda here. I will talk about the work on our proposal that the ministry of higher education, science and technological development appear in the structure of the ministries. In order not to increase the number of ministries, we suggest that youth and sport join education as is the case in most European countries. I think we all talk about the state interest here every day, we're talking about consensus. The formation of such a ministry is something that I am sure would support all the science ministers who worked after October 5th and counterpart Domazet from DS and counterpart Popovic from DSS and Ana Pesikan and G17 plus, not to mention myself. I've had the honor of running that ministry for almost three years. That's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that at the moment of some previous reconstruction this resort is attached to enlightenment. At that moment, 5,750 scientists signed a petition. They were opposed to abolishing the Ministry of Science. For those of you who have the opportunity to hang out or negotiate with scientists, we know that this collective action is not their thing. Then you can say -- that's something that's category, looking at their own interests. How, then, do you explain that more than 25,000 other people have joined on social networks? And these are the ones that talk a lot today, the young ones who are our upper list and who are studying abroad, the roosters who are still in our country, thinking people and all those who want good to the Republic of Serbia. What was not discussed at all, perhaps little when the minister explained this proposal, he said, although we did not see it in the bill itself, that any structure of any government must meet the challenges of the given country at the time. That's where he's right. If we all agree here that Serbia will get out of poverty only the knowledge economy, which has led to the time of the Internet revolution, above all to the fact that there are today not labour-intense, capital intensive, but profitable branches, which make a huge difference with other branches that remain on the old model. Let me give you a few examples. Do you know that "Pezo" or "Fiat" with "Krysler", these are companies whose value is on world markets between five and eight billion euros? During that time, a Facebook with 7,000 employees and after the stock drops, following strong speculation, has a value that is above $50 billion. Not to mention that a large number of other technology companies provide prosperity to their own countries, allowing the most talented, often in the minority in these countries, to provide a large part of the cake that can then be shared with others and to establish a positive cycle in the development of these countries. There's no others. The only countries that have moved from the third world economic social league to the first league are those and only those that recognize the knowledge economy. Serbia had a certain continuity in that domain. I quoted three ministers before me from other political parties, two among them and this ten-year continuity in principle, and I don't add more credit to myself than I do, that Serbia is multiplying with four quality scientific papers in ten years, that in 2009, it reaches the very top of the list of countries that are making the fastest progress in this domain, on the site "Thomson Reuters" which measures the amount and quality of scientific work, that I have the honour when I represented our country to start at a meeting with the president of the American Academy of Science discussion by looking at a slice from that site and saying – you do something good in Serbia, you're progressing. There's no illusion. If it's Belgrade University, ask today's rector and the one before us, he's reached the so-called Shanghai's list, it's too much because we've established a relationship, not enough, but a better connection between the institute and the university, the university. A number of quality works, which was crucial for the Belgrade University to reach the 400th list. All the people who do this say, one of these is what we need. So today I call upon the majority, and we will give support to accept this amendment, to form one such ministry. There is not much politics in it, but we have experience and let our colleagues not be angry, I believe that the shift of the current minister of education has much to do with this great shame with a small graduation, but I believe that the biggest problem is that it has completely suspended the cycle of investments that we launched in 2009 amounting to 400m euros in scientific infrastructure and equipment. The current one, which the Finance Minister's watch was scoffingly speaking about making some dinosaurs in Svilinco. He made fun of all the little ones and teachers in our country, because that's where the natural center is made. I welcome the effort to finally open up, because that way some 200,000 of our youngsters will be able to see what their peers in Europe see. The building of the University of Novi Sad recession has been completed. A magnificent center of 16,000 m2 of "Scientific and Technological Park" on Zvezdakara was completed. It was purchased worth 50m euros necessary and through the necessary scientific equipment. Let's remind ourselves, in this cycle, in 2009, the number of scientists increased by 30%, in part by our rejuvenation, but in part and experienced professors who felt the need to re-engage in this one serious scientific work. It's not just a matter of state institutes. It's not just a matter of state colleges. It's not just a matter of state-owned companies. One such ministry is needed at this time by our country because it will also be a focal point for all those investors in the technology domain, who will be able to create synergy where it is needed. We managed to provide 10m euros for the Innovation Labour Fund. This government continues to apply it and fine, that's the way it should be. It would be good if one such ministry would try to multiply by four of those numbers and finally have a larger number of our companies, not just one and then use it as a marketing example, so that our inventors don't have the only solution to establish a company or turn their patent into reality, to emigrate. That's why, and that's why I'm ending it, I'm calling on everyone here to accept this amendment. We will not increase the number of ministries, but we will send the strongest possible message to thinking people in our country, to those who are working in institutes today, in colleges, in companies domestic and foreign and international technology partners who are considering Serbia as a possible destination for the knowledge economy. I'm sure this would be a state's move. I invite you all to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22437	Eight minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The order reported to participate in the debate in particular is the following. The word has a folk MP, Ljuban Panic, followed by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, then Bojan Đurić, then Srdjan Milivojevic, then Aleksandra Tomic, then Radoslav Milovanovic, National MP Donka Banović, MP Branislav Blažić, Miroslav Markicevic and Janko Vesenović. There's no need to sign up. In this order, you'll get the word. The word is made by MP Ljuban Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22438	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, I would support everything Mr Karic, our coalition partner from "Green Serbia", said on this amendment, above all in the term that the current government of the Republic of Serbia has declared itself to be an unorganic government of the Republic of Serbia. Ecology, the environment, what we inherit and what we leave in that sense is not something that should be ideologically or politically divided. It's something that we should have a consensus on and that the environment, the environment that each government preserves, leaves for generations to come. This government may well have shown all its paradoxes through environmental policy. To make it clear to citizens, every time they buy a refrigerator or some means of white technology they use, which are potential environmental pollutants, citizens continue to pay taxes from which money went to a fund that dealt with environmental protection. Today, these same taxes are paid by citizens, but there is no money to protect the environment. By the way, there is no such thing as what Mr. Karic was talking about, and that is the development of the green economy. Thousands of jobs in the recycling industry have been compromised, and we are members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, at a time when the affair of aflatoxin rocked this government, and these days also replaced Minister Knezevic. We witnessed frantic data that even from sanctions, and then, measured air quality, and that due to the lack of resources today in Serbia, the quality of air is not measured in areas where the vegetables that are on the market are grown, because we all buy, regardless of which political party we work, we vote or what ideology we belong to. It's not a question of oak. The oak for me isn't even a symbol of the ecological movement. The oak is only proof of what I was talking about today, that in Serbia there is one man who decides about everything, so in five days through an oak, he tried, to explain to all those who are fighting for that oak, that they are the exponents of one palanic mentality which he has wanted to change very badly in Serbia for the past three years, and then five days after that, he made a decision to preserve the oak anyway, etc. The oak is proof that there is no state in Serbia, that it is in political bankruptcy and that, with the bankruptcy director becoming Minister of Economy, in a political sense, it has won the bankruptcy director Aleksandr Vukic, who, among other things, decides on football clubs and the fate of a 600-year-old tree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22439	Three minutes and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: Replica. We are discussing in detail. (Zoran Babic, from the post: Replica, mentioning the party, party president. People's MP, we're discussing in detail. National MP Marijan Risticevic has a word, followed by MP Bojan Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22440	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I agree with my esteemed colleagues that this subject is very important. In some other circumstances, it is most likely that I would accept the amendment's proposal to set up a special ministry to protect the environment. But what worries me is that this came very soon, following a serious silence from a parliamentary group that campaigned in the election campaign, whose presidential candidate and then current president stood up in the election campaign for new genetic modalities in food production. So, if this happened in the campaign from which this Parliament also resulted, then I am seriously concerned about the true intentions of the amendment's promoter to do this for environmental protection. I also remember well, and I remember many things that have happened at the Environmental Protection Fund. I remember the large amount of money spent on importing second-hand car tyres that the current minister, from which the bench is now coming, imported to be recycled in our country, and this was largely paid from the Environmental Protection Fund. That was said by the most impressive finance minister, still current, and by the minister who was in the past government, Mr Dinkic. So they were importing huge tires, foreign waste, to recycle here, and to pay for it from this poor country budget of ours. I would support this if it hadn't been for abuse from the Environmental Protection Fund, which I'm afraid, if it hadn't been for paying the media that took tens of millions from the Environmental Protection Fund to advertise a particular political party that was in power at the time. Today, by the press, you can find figures that are astronomical, which are measured by dozens of millions of dinars, which are fictitiously paid out of this Environment Fund, so that, instead of taking care of the environment, journalists will take care of themselves, I don't mind, but to show voters how someone is the best and most beautiful person in the world. Today these media, if you follow the report of this session, of course they only report on the activities of the former government. Since these media have taken big money from the Environment Fund, they have not gone to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, they have not gone to protect the environment, but have gone to party propaganda, it is no wonder that these media perform in the way they perform today, since they have also received a lot of money. I must say, in order to accept the amendment's proposal and its initiative, I would very much like to, in time, rebel against the presidential candidate's initiative for modals in the production of genetically modified food, as said in the campaign. I would also support the initiative that the former regime has risen and has not given permission to build a lead battery recycling plant on a regional water catchment area in India. So, there's an accumulator recycling plant up there where waste water goes into a synergy canal, and there's a regional water supply of Indji down there that's been wiped out of a spatial plan without government's permission, and that's a legal obligation, erased from the spatial plan just to meet a foreign investor who, miraculously, has been supplying more than 50,000 people with water, built a recycling plant. Then I would believe, and even better now, even blindly believe the motions of the promoter, that, as it is the Alliance of Environmental Organisations, the Ecological Movement from Novi Sad, Mr. Alexic said, had risen as he and his organisation were protecting themselves from possible genocide against water consumers, since this is extremely harmful to health. I would also accept this initiative if someone had rebelled against giving money for the disposal of electronic waste, the destruction of a company in Pancheva, and I'm going to give that documentation very much to the amendment promoter, and I'm going to bring it to him soon, where a lot of money was given, and in electronic waste, even transformers were introduced, to make it more difficult, which was done, of course, in a firm that was very close to the former minister who worked to protect the environment. I would support all of this, I would support the oak initiative, if the project that denied that oak and which was traversing the route of that highway had not been done during the former government. She wanted to destroy the oak with her own project. Then some people got up and that protection was fine. I would have accepted all of this if it hadn't been for serious abuses in the protection of the environment. Finally, to add that we had this same dilemma in the government of Zoran Djindjic, because the first government, as I recall, did not have the Ministry of Environmental Protection. It was only during the reconstruction that we found that some foreign projects couldn't be realised because we didn't have a separate Ministry of Environmental Protection. This is what I'm saying for the sake of truth, that even then there was this dilemma. And now I would support this dilemma if it hadn't been for the harsh abuse of the past period, right by the parliamentary, or the then majority, of the current parliamentary group from which this proposal comes. As far as environmental protection is concerned, I, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, must support it, because it means a lot to agriculture, but I fear that this has not been so sincere, since I know of many of the many abuses that have even been documented, which have been spoken of here by the ministers, who have written about the press, which have been done for the last four years, that the great money, instead of taking care of the environment and improving people's health, has gone, past that fund, for the press, propaganda, to show that someone, like this mirror, is the most beautiful, the best in the world, and that someone has promoted genetically modified food between two rounds, on 18 May in an election campaign in one of their shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22441	Eight minutes and five seconds used by the MP's group. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22442	Madam Chairman, you have violated Rule 107 of Rule 1 of the Rules of Procedure. You did not interrupt your colleague Panic, you did not warn him, you did not give him a warning when he told the lie that Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, the bankruptcy manager of Serbia, was. My colleague Panic doesn't know that, and you should know that, because you voted for him in the previous assembly on bankruptcy and bankruptcy. You know, in order for someone to be a bankruptcy manager, they've got to have a bankruptcy manager's license. Mr. Alexander Vukic as a kind of lawyer, and a man who can do a lot of things, a bankruptcy manager doesn't have that license either. Therefore, I expect from you in the future, and from each chairman, if such argument is used and so on, to warn you, to make a warning and to interrupt it in making such views. I know your argument will be a quote from the papers, but we're not newspaper readers here, we're people who express their political views and their political beliefs. So you can forget about that argument. In the future, to such findings, and to such insults, I expect you to give a warning to those who are late.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22443	I don't think I've hurt the Rules of Procedure, nor do I find being a bankruptcy manager offensive. We have a candidate for a minister who's a bankruptcy manager. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: It is explicitly said who he is. Extensive. ) Please, I will plead with you on your request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but please, really, let us understand each other in metaphors. I listened very carefully to all the speakers, and some of the speakers very creatively use metaphors, some less creatively, but the bankruptcy manager wasn't going to be and it's hard to become a reason to give a warning, because I don't know how we're going to talk to the minister. (Zoran Babiæ, from the place: It is untrue. ) Whether or not it is true, the chairman cannot know. He can only know if it's offensive or whether it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. To call one politician a bankruptcy manager is what the will of MPs who speak of their political rivals is. The National Assembly will declare itself in voting day. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. After that, the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22444	Speaking of which, I also don't find the term "a bankruptcy manager" offensive. A bankruptcy manager usually engages in the need of exceptional knowledge, ability, speed, creativity in solving a particular problem. So I would see it as a commendation, but okay, Mr. Babic has the right to experience it in his own way. I'm surprised that he didn't react to this assessment of being some bankruptcy manager, which means that Serbia is in bankruptcy, that it's actually pre-banked, that it's due to bad policy, among other things in the last year. I personally think it is, and that it is the result of the policy that was led before 2012. I'm glad we agree on something. It's a depressing debate, especially when it comes to the level of environmentalism, environmental protection, science. It reminded me of that debate when we talked about budget rebalancing, so we all swore that we loved the children most in the world, that we were all ready to help the children, and it barely finally changed the regulations of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Says Mr. Risticevic, he's in favour of supporting everything in terms of ecology. Here, I'm not in favour of supporting everything about the environment. Because those who claim to be for the full protection of the environment or those who claim that science is the most important thing in the world, or I don't know the second part of the functioning of the state. All of it, actually, come on, I'm not gonna say they don't know anything about it, but they're not serious about it. I think we need to find some measure between protecting environmental standards and sustainable development and functioning of the economy, economy, etc. If it hadn't been for so long, the citizens of Panchev would have chosen a government that would have shut down all those factories that existed there. But they're still kind of measuring. They have on one side the quality of air and environment, and on the other hand they need to survive that month or that year. I'm not saying you need to go too far on one side or the other, but you need to be serious when you talk about it. We sometimes see these discussions as almost tribal, like calling rain. The oak is the paradigm of it. Mr. Karic won't be angry, I'm inclined to think so, so I thought about the platan, that you should be serious, that you should trust people who know whether the canvas is sick or not, I don't know, I don't think politicians can know that. You knew Mr. Babic, you just found out how the payrolls were taken out to make a Spanish tram. So you know what, on King Alexander's Boulevard, and before that, the Boulevard of the Revolution, the tracks were on one side and on the other. Now they're mostly not like that, but they exist differently. So, they didn't mind paying for it but not getting too into it. I respect that if you say so, that's how much it costs the citizens of Serbia to keep that oak. And I'm more inclined, I'm telling you right now, that when it's already come to this point, when no one's ever looked out for it, it's to build a road, but to guard the oak. But when you claim all this, Mr. Babic, when it's your political stance, why did you decide to spend that money anyway and save the oak? You're a politician, you're a ruling majority, you make decisions. If you say human lives and highways are important, then the highway is made, oak is not guarded, and the consequences are borne, votes are received, or votes are lost. If you've given in to the oak, then how are you going to carry out any reform in other corridors? That's the key question. You can't lecture on how malicious everyone who defends the oak is. Then the minister in your government takes this one out of the assembly, the drafts, the pasarella, so that the branch doesn't fall on the road, that the road doesn't fall on the oak. Then it's unserious, then you're not a government that has a consistent, coherent policy. They won't have you in a pension fund, in a health fund, in a budget policy, in a deficit, in debt, for anything. You want to run a reform policy or you want to... Why did you change your mind about saving the oak in the end? Is it because some people objected or because a public story was made? If that's your rapper, then keep at all costs the enormous popularity you have, but you won't make any important reforms for the country. That's where many of you went before you, and they failed before you. When you point to their examples here, often rightly, you forget that if you continue to act like this, that's what's waiting for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22445	Four minutes and 58 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic has the word, followed by the folk MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22446	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs here yesterday were the first Deputy Prime Minister and said there was no courage to introduce the Ministry of Ecology. The same minister, the same Deputy Prime Minister who's not afraid to ride a tiger, is afraid to introduce the Ministry of Ecology. At the same time, the same man said, Aleksandar Vukic, that the oak represents and paints the palanic mentality of our people who are ruling Serbia right now. Now you see, the palanic mentality seems to have defeated Alexander Vukic, and that is the palanic mentality of that part of his government that says the oak should remain. Now I ask the question of how do we trust people who say they'll survive if they change their mind like that. On the other hand, oak is a symbol of the incompetence of this government, you know, I've finished here biological science. I studied some sciences that had something to do with biology and ecology and sustainable development at the Faculty of Agriculture, and I thought I had mastered those teachings well. That's where that science says people can think biologically. There are people who graduate from the Faculty of Machines, so they think a little bit, there are those who graduate from the Technical Faculty, and in some other way they think, and they kept telling me that I was thinking biologically. They kept telling me that I shouldn't react with instincts to anything that comes from the opposition's ranks, that it's harmful than I should think because the center for this instinctive response, for responding to conditional reflexes, is in a small brain. That it's good for a man to use a small and large brain and think carefully about the policy he's leading, and the topic is the ecology and the theme is just that oak that hurts you so much. I understand who you're throwing, that oak is a witness to the formation of the Serbian state that you destroyed, and maybe that's why you should cut it. A banner of freedom was erected two hundred years ago, and that's where Serbia set out to free and attach those territories that you gave for the last term. I understand that you want to get revenge on that oak for it and that it hurts, that it bothers you. But here we've been listening to the story of miles of highways being made, which have never been made before, it all starts from you. If we didn't have miles of highways in our house, how come we did this project? How come we didn't do anything, now you're making everything and the first obstacle is oak and there's no road and problem. How many miles of highway for last term? How many bridges did you take down? And how many ruins and ruins remain after that bad policy of yours failed? Should I remind you? So, you're constantly shocked, consterned, horrified when you're mentioned the consequences of your political past, and when you face the future, then you have no argument, no vision. Then it is your defense that Zoran Djindjic did not have the Ministry of Ecology either. You know every time you mention Zoran Djindjic, remember that the president of the Republic said Tito had problems with his leg before he died as well as Zoran Djindjic. Every time you say that Srebrenica is a terrible crime... (President: National MP, please draw your argument closer to the topic of the agenda. ) So, to finish, it's good to get the Ministry of Ecology and I'm sorry that you didn't accept it and that you didn't support it, and I'm sorry that the oak is a paradigm and a symbol of your incompetent authority, and I'm sorry that all the incompetence and all the things that Serbian citizens will have to endure, because we have this government that's been falling for nine months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22447	It's been used for four minutes and 25 seconds. The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22448	Dear ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office, the topic on which today, I think most of the political parties participating in the National Assembly's meeting, which concerns the establishment of a Ministry of Environmental Protection should reach consensus whether it is necessary to single out or not? What does Europe say? So on 3 March 2010, Europe adopted the 2020 Strategy, where it said that the priorities of this strategy and the EU countries that will enter the negotiations are the creation of new jobs, social inclusion and environmental protection. What does Europe insist on? It insists on the integrated management of all relevant entities in order to protect the environment. What does that mean? This means that the proposals that are in the amendment, all groups of proposings, are not enough to exist at this time in the amendments and additions to this law. Why? Because it is not enough to single out the protection of the environment, but in one place to collect both natural resources and water and forestry, and ultimately to take the part relating to sustainable development, because without it we can't even talk about the green economy. In the end, we have a part that's very interesting, which is the management of emergency situations. All of this requires redefining Serbia's budget. It is obvious that now is neither an economic nor a political moment for the realization of such a concept, and I therefore believe that this is the only reason why at this point it simply was not possible to define such a ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22449	It was used a minute and 50 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has been made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic, and after that, MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22450	I support the amendment of my colleague Ivan Karic, and I agree with previous colleagues who said, why not be the bankruptcy director of the economy if he was already a bankruptcy manager in 14 companies. What does the concept of reconstruction mean? It's a restoration of the re-establishment of the former state of affairs, of the re-alignment of new principles. Will that happen again after the fall of this government? I don't believe it, and I believe that ignorance and what has decorated this government over the past year and led to this catastrophic situation where our society is. In addition, I believe this is the worst government that has been formed in Serbia since 2000, and we will suffer the consequences in the coming years. Why is it necessary to form a Ministry of Environmental Protection, and why is this important? It's, first of all, important for a few reasons. The first reason is because the environmental fund has been abolished and we cannot escort how much money is invested in protecting the environment and is air quality, water, land and food measured? This could have very dangerous consequences for the health of citizens and children in Serbia's territory. The number of people suffering from various types of respiratory, cardiac and other diseases is on a steady rise. Is there a ministry in EU countries? Yes, from Germany to countries in the environment, Slovenia has this ministry, it has BiH, Croatia and other countries. What's the role and what's the DS's fault in what's been going on in the past few years? Just as much as she was in power, and she was only seven years old. The SPS was 15 years in power, the URS was 13, SNS three plus four years in favour of Slobodan Milosevic. I think we should stop talking about DS, because just today and Friday is the topic of the government's fall and what the government did in the previous year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22451	Two minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used, and the word has a folk MP, Donka Banovic, and after that, MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22452	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. So I would say on behalf of the DSS that we support this amendment that proposes a different structure of the government, namely that some ministries change. I would specifically talk about this part, where it is suggested that, as the people call it, "the Mammoth Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development", it is divided into two ministries, namely that science has its own ministry again after several years and that it learns to restore the status it deserves. I'm sorry that this government didn't recognize, too, that all these problems that bother science, scientific workers, that they were created, among other things, because of the abolition of the Ministry of Science, and that was in 2009, therefore, during this previous government. Today we heard, because in this part the MP, Mr Djelic, who, if I remember correctly, was the minister of science, and as vice president, was in charge of European integration. Here we heard a different opinion today, and I'm sorry that even then, as opposition MPs, we didn't know what kind of trouble he was being tortured, that he couldn't defend his ministry, because it was also the coalition government, but if we knew, we would have started some bigger actions as an opposition and joined all those scientific workers who were rightly dissuaded at the time, signing petitions, etc. But I'm sorry this government didn't understand all these problems. We're only a few months ago, I think it's the first time in history that scientists have gathered in a street protest to point to a poor position of science and scientific workers. I'm sorry that this government has the same regard for science. I just remind you that before the termination, that ministry had already existed for 50 years, so by 2009, until that ministry, as a ministry, was abolished. I would also point out some of the consequences of this six-year construction and reconstruction, some even say nine years, and why this process should have been done much faster, and I'm going to say that as someone who is an educational worker. You know that, I think Monday, a new school year begins. In all secondary schools in Serbia, it is mainly chaos that has also been caused by the failure of small graduation a few months ago, or serious people could and knew the consequences of this at the start of the school year. We now have the beginning of the school year, and the minister of education has not been elected. I know Minister Obradovic is now, as it is said, a resignation minister, but he is indeed in resignation, so he is no longer doing his jobs. You know, Mr. Minister, there are many, many decisions and solutions that, but literally, can only be signed by the Minister of Education. We have a large number of students who need to go to first class of some high school, who don't even know if they'll be able to be at that school, because we have a small number of students. For example, you have a department where only five students are registered or enrolled, and that profession will be lifted. Some Belgrade secondary schools, today there is a very exhaustive text on this, will have to lift as many as five professions. Educational workers don't know if they're on the tech surplus list because they're out of norms. There are a dozen problems that plague secondary schools. On the other hand, these schools, which we also call more popular or which are more attractive, high school, economic, medical schools, have another problem. They had to put in a larger number of departments, they didn't have enough teaching footage, they didn't have enough space. So there's no telling how it's going to be organized. Of course, the long-term consequence, that in a few years we're going to have to import craftsmen and technicians because we're going to go through a whole generation where we're not going to have any professions. That's why you should have been a little hasty with this reconstruction and that the start of the school year doesn't have to be due to the slowness in the reconstruction of the government, probably for a couple of months literally to delay, because if you can't organize, then that school year isn't even started.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22453	Five minutes and 55 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by the MP Branislav Blazic. After him, MP Miroslav Markicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22454	Thank you. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, listening to these discussions, I realized that political life in Serbia is reaching some incredible heights. In this country everything can be politicized, and even oak, it can be politicized by the environment and its protection. However, I do not want to think so and that I think that the proposings of this amendment, who wanted the Ministry of Environmental Protection to form again, had such intentions. In any case, it is possible and such an amendment could be accepted, but it is only one of the ways in which to reach the ultimate and common goal that we all as humans want, which is that our environment is improved, preserved and secureed the right to life for future generations. Experience tells us that there are various forms and visions of organization, and the results are always different. And when there was a ministry, there were better or worse results, when it was management or directorship, anyway, because it is precisely those results that depend not only on whether or not it will be a ministry, but depends primarily on what people lead, how much knowledge, ability, organization, how much will, commitment and all that is needed, at the end and love of this environment, so that the results will be quality. For this reason, I think that we, first of all, should look up to the very currents of Europe and that of civilization, to have and to see how life is respected there, and that is where we are, and that is where we are no longer respected, something that threatens our own life, or which threatens other people's lives, and that is by that people's "what is smart is ashamed of, a fool is proud of it". That's why for us, whether we organize ourselves in one way or another, in the environment and in the environment for this society, is the most important two things. One is how we will welcome and how much we will organize to welcome that wedding date, when we need to respond to prepared projects and succeed in withdrawing and obtaining support from Europe, adequate precisely for our unfortunate position, when it comes to our ecology. That is exactly what they can help us the most and they want to help us, only it depends on us whether we want to help ourselves and how much we will be prepared, able, organised to prepare projects and welcome this fatefully – yes, by the EU. Another thing I expected the opposition to point out a little bit, and I just want to say that we're thinking and working on it, and that's because of the unfortunate interpretation of certain terms, there's been a certain blockade in the very functioning of our Ministry of Environment, actually for energy, because natural resources have been misread and it turns out that protected natural goods belong to natural resources. There has been a blockade because the integrity of the legislative system in environmental protection has been lost, because protected natural resources are neither natural resources nor will they ever be. Natural resources are an economic category and protected natural well-being has just been done to preserve that divine value and what is left of us and of God. We're going to do a lot of work on this, and we have to do it to ensure that nature protection is functioning because right now it's actually our biggest problem, not looking at everything else that's been going on around here so demagoguely and somewhat populistly. So, here in the end, I want only in the end that when it comes to the environment and its relationship with it will do everything to make sure that by the date and organized, every way is a state responsibility to prepare and to fulfill everything that is expected of us, and that has a lot of problems, but I am convinced that we will be able to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22455	Four minutes used by the MP's group. The People's MP Miroslav Markicevic has the word, followed by MP Janko Vesenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22456	On behalf of the NS MPs, the Honorable chairman, on behalf of the NS Parliament Club, pleading on the amendment tabled by counterpart Karic and a group of MPs, I could say next that I might surprise some colleagues here. If the proposal had come to treat environmental protection as a special ministry, we wouldn't mind. So, we leave the government's creators at will, about their concept that they think the government and this matter are engaged, to support it. It seems much more important to me if environmental protection is being achieved in this country, than whether there is a Ministry of Environment Protection, because we have witnessed that during the previous period there were environmental ministers, and it seems to me that this fight for environmental protection was more being fought on billboards and in propaganda films. We citizens, especially who come from within Serbia, have not seen anything from this struggle to protect the environment. So, environmental pollution in which our people live, our children are, we all agree on this very dangerous and there is no party that doesn't have an Ecology Committee or whatever it calls it. That's why I think the parties of the green, the movements, regardless of whose list they are, should be very careful, very tolerant, because it concerns all of us, and not to listen here to tyrades, harsh words and insults. All this discussion about oak turned out to be a story about Milly. Do we remember King Miles and who cared about her health and how and what? I'm afraid this time the story is similar, that oak wants to be used for political and marketing purposes. Perhaps another apology by Mr. Karic could dissuade me or dissuade his municipal board, if he is aware that there is a Greens municipal board in Gornji Milanovac, who explicitly thanked Minister Velimir Ilic for his attempts to preserve the oak. I don't understand what's the story here today that the Ministry of Urban and Civil Engineering is doing nothing, that it's zero? If that's how we look at the explicit, the destruction of the environment, the primordial construction of any sidewalks in this country, any houses, does that mean that we protect the environment and we should do nothing in this country or criticise those who do? What is the essence of the oak story, respected citizens of Serbia? It is Corridor 11 on which, at this moment, everything under the reflectors is now working until 11 a.m. Hundreds and tens of thousands of workers work, especially on a section from Ligo to Preljin, and I will say to the village of Rakov. Citizens living there, therefore, the goal is to show that this government, i.e. the Ministry of Urbanism and Building, is doing nothing, as counterpart Veselinović said yesterday or the day before yesterday, zero, and it seems to me that the Novosadians informed me yesterday that he was the director of a very important company, or institution in Novi Sad. Well, I never would have said Mr. Veselinovic wasn't doing anything. Maybe he could have done better, maybe some people think he should have been different, but I would never have said, as I tell you, Mr. Karic, that such an evaluation of people who fight and work is not in the spirit of the Greens, especially if local Greens pleads differently than you. What I can say as a People's MP and perhaps an under-informed man, it seems to me that there are several projects to protect that oak. I'd like you as an expert to see if an oak can live 600 years. That was a little weird for me. Do you know the condition of the oak we're talking about, is it healthier or sicker than the canvass you say you are, I believe you, I haven't noticed, but I believe you why not, fought? So it is open politicisation, and the goal is to hide that there are ministers working day and night, who are still in China with the President of the Republic, to conclude favourable investment contracts in Serbia. I understand that until yesterday, I was an opposition and I understand what the opposition's task is, but I think, if it's the case, and it's here, that's what the discussion was about, the so-called, let's just say a little bit of colaqué, and that's not where we're supposed to share. It is in everyone's interest to be a healthy environment as much as possible and how technological development of a country and society allows. I think there's too much politicizing here. Of course, someone will ask why there aren't hundreds and tens of thousands of workers in the media. Well, there are no marketing and political reasons, because then it would show that someone is actually doing something in this country. I think a huge number of ministers, even those who have left and who have submitted or will resign, many of them have done well. My advice was, and at least I worked hard when I was in opposition, it seems to me that when a government or a minister does something that I would also support that I am the ruling party then I am silent, as if there was no reason to criticise this government, as well as this one that would be elected in a day, two, as if there was no real cause and arguments. Then why invent and pollute not the environment, which is very dangerous, but one communication, public and public word with such things. I repeat, this really looks like a story about Milly. Does anyone remember how she was operated? So, oak and kerun Mila, that should be the topic of Serbia and the National Assembly here, and I think there are much more important topics in this country, above all employment. If in the coming months, not to say for years not to reduce that percentage of the unemployed in Serbia, we will be free of all stories of oaks and ceramics of Milam. That doesn't mean I don't support those who fight for animal protection. I've got a fifth member of the household. His name is Oscar, and I'm proud to say it. I love the woods, too, and I love the oaks, gentlemen, but let's face it, this government and these ministers are prone to criticism and there are a lot of arguments. I may have and may also be critical in the coming days, but let's not do trivial things here, so that someone in Europe hears that we are green and we are fighting for oak, while someone is against oak, while the local committee of the party supports the minister who has in some way faced the leader of our coalition, Mr. Vukic, who thinks otherwise. Well, we shouldn't split up about it, we should build Serbia. There are more oaks in Serbia. And this one will live as long as he lives. Mr Karic, instead of saying that you remembered who stopped the construction of a highway from Belgrade for Western Serbia -- the phantom National Council for Infrastructure, chaired by the former president of the Republic, a phantom, anti-constitutional one, for political reasons, to support some of the MPs from Vojvodina here in support of the previous government. Western Serbia has been punished. You've been punishing us since 1945, and this time you won't. The highway will arrive in Požega and Bolsars. It will arrive from Cačka, from Belgrade will go four hours to Budva. It's Serbia's blood vessel, it's a blood stream for Serbia, and nobody's gonna stop it. We're talking about the oak and we're talking about the earrings of Milam. Last year, on May 15th in the village of Goroljek, it is more Požega, it was supposed to be an open highway, and where the highways come and the investments come, jobs come. That's what we need to talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22457	Eight minutes and 45 seconds have been used since the time of the parliamentary group president. You don't have the right to a replica, you'll have the time of the parliamentary group, so you'll exchange arguments. The chairman decides on replicas. In this way, the discussion of replicas is unproductive. You will be given a word within the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk MP, Janko Veselinović, and then a national MP, Maja Gojkovic. Here you go. Please do not throw away, since throwing away is a reason to give a warning the moment when the chairman of the House of Commons is about to interrupt the speaker by being inappropriately cast.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22458	Thank you. Chairman, please give me these 20 seconds... Chairman, could I continue and will you take my 30 seconds out of time?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22459	Of course, you can continue and the time you use will be calculated. I can also monitor your exposure and the information Mr. Toskovic needs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22460	Thank you. First one small comment on the construction of the highway. By the way, funds for the construction of the highway were provided by the previous government of Mirko Cvetkovic with the help of the President of the Republic, Mr Tadic. It's a so-called Azerbaijani project. On the other hand, I'm not sure whether Mr Markicevic counted those workers well. He told tens of thousands of workers to work on that piece of highway. It would be more like building a pyramid in Egypt, where tens of thousands of people worked to build these pyramids because of the sand. I'm afraid hyperbole has been used again to increase results that are not your results. When it comes to traffic, someone tried to use the untruth to deny my exposure when I was just quoting what was in the serious daily newspaper as news that the first Deputy Prime Minister owed the Republic of Serbia a billion euros to buy six military planes. Why am I bringing this up at the Department of Traffic? Because someone was defending that thesis by the need for these planes to be flying control, because for God's sake, we're going to lose our right to fly control in our space and in some neighboring countries. So, a billion euros in the list of "Today" information, a list I trust, I hope they are not unverified information. Your deputy head of the parliamentary club said it was eight times less, and then deny the gentlemen what the newspaper "Today" has written and you can see it now, even the title is "billion euros for planes". On the other hand, our proposal is for the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development to be divided into two ministries. Why? Why do we think a special ministry should be the Ministry of Higher Education and Science? Because that's what volunteerism is in that area and if we were a state as well as we didn't know that science belonged, say, two or five percent as it is in Sweden or another developed country we're far from it, not that scientists on the streets are looking for their wages. That is why we believe that there should be a special ministry for the area and that the state would benefit more than these two Velin and Mrkonjic's ministries for one and the same area. We also suggested that the Ministry of Education receive another obligation or jurisdiction, which is sport and youth. I believe and exist in the comparative right of such an experience that one minister runs these three resistors that are quite related. Finally, to defend the images of the thesis that I'm talking about above all about the environmentals that it looks like today and how politics is conducted in the field of ecology. All the funds that are collected as coercion could be said by citizens do not go for ecological purposes, but go to the Republic of Serbia's budget where they are lost to every lead. So the money collected as an environmental tax goes into the budget and then it disappears from a trace since this government was formed. The second image is the fact that in our case, recycling is being conducted in the following way. Europe's boulevard one, of which we could say the most delicious boulevards now in Novi Sad have several acres of green surface. On that green surface is now let's call it the recycling center. A recycling center in which some people drive plastics in a cart, there they select and resell it under quotes. Is this a recycling policy and environmental policy that should employ tens of thousands of people? Ecology is not only concerned about the environment, which I agree with Mr. Karic, but is an opportunity for new jobs to be opened in Serbia. That is why we care about the responsible policy in this area, which unfortunately, Minister Mihajlovic has not dealt with at all. The third picture that is the reality of today's Serbia is Panchevo, Obrenovac, Bor, Zajeca, the fact that they do not work air monitoring centres. Why? Because there's no money. Why? Because they're moderate for other purposes. That is why we believe that the ruling coalition should have more courage in this reconstruction. I repeat once again this bill amending the Ministry Act is an empty set. One ministry is divided into two, we get another minister and what? We still don't know who those ministers are, we'll talk about it Friday. Anyway, bad situation, six months of government reconstruction that lasts 13 months, no ideas. The Ministry Act, I agree with the minister that the reconstruction could have been carried out without law, but such a law as it arrived in the procedure was almost not necessary. Finally, of course, the DS will not support this law and we will fight and we will try to convince you to support the amendments we have submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22461	The word has a national emissary, Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22462	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, is obviously an inspiring topic for MPs, since we have been talking about this amendment for more than two hours. There is one great political will to participate in the government of the Republic of Serbia, because the submission of such a bill actually expresses the political will and aspirations of the ruling majority. It is quite unusual for the opposition to seriously think that it proposes such amendments, to propose to the government in reconstruction that the government should look, but good. These are both the political and legal nonsensions of our parliamentary life. Just to look at the pieces of the amendment's proposal, which has actually proposed the introduction of a number of new ministries, believing that a fundamental reconstruction is an increase in the number of ministries in the Serbian government. It is not the essence of the reconstruction or the refusal of this amendment, to say, not the government's wish that there is a special ministry of science, especially the Ministry of Education, in particular the Ministry of All and Anything, as one of the social networks of colleagues from our Parliament club, Mr Cvian joked. The point is what the government thinks it is doing, where it all thinks it is implementing reforms and what it is seeking to modernise Serbia. Here, as a personification with the amendment's promoter to single out a special ministry of environmental protection, a single oak story has been singled out as something that needs to reflect the need to create a special ministry of environmental protection. Such a proposal by the government has been seriously considered, but it is not the EU's condition and EU accession and obtaining a date for such a ministry, but precisely what counterpart Aleksandra Tomic stressed, that in this area the ministry is really working together. Example that we did not take any steps towards the EU by having one period of time. in the past government, the special ministry of environmental protection is that nothing has been done in this area of the ministry. We've had a few actions, a "Let's Clean Serbia" action that I don't see has made any progress in protecting the environment. If you've already instructed examples of employment in the green economy, I couldn't say that what helped the Ministry of Environmental Protection helped companies involved in tire burning and imported tyres. Let's just say that we've opened up some new green jobs. Not jobs, but green jobs, or that we have improved environmental protection, but we have paved the way for numerous investigations into the work of the handling environment ministry. As far as oak is concerned, it's an entirely naked story initiated by the DS. Maybe there's a microcry, some movement used, maybe they're green, actually members of the DS, and it can be easily proven. But on the one hand, there is a story about oak, and on the other hand there are human lives that are lost annually on that part of the Ibar highway. When you ask me if I am to preserve oaks for which nothing has been done to really get protection as a natural benefit from Serbia in the past term and the human lives of the people who died on that road, then it is very easy to get the answer that SNS advocates modern ways and protects life. Remember those videos in the last term that were expensively paid, and you didn't learn anything from them, when people drive faster than life, and when you finally see them hit a tree on the highway and die. Now you think carefully about whether we will be dealing with wood, which is sick and which, in fact, does not represent anything for this country, because if it were to represent something significant, then it would have passed the process of protecting the environment of the municipality in which it is located and that tree would be protected as a natural good. Let me tell you that in that part of Serbia there is one tree over 200 years old. It is a lip in the village of Gornja Trepca, which has passed the full procedure with a private initiative, not the Ministry of Environmental Protection initiative, nor Minister Oliver Dulic. It's the only natural well-protected in this country. It's called, by chance, my last name - Gojkovic Lip. I can show you what it's like to make an elaborate, protect that state, address the ministry and have hearing, as had the Cacca City Assembly who declared it a protected good. Nothing has been done for the oak, and I am sorry that my colleague Ivan Karic, who has been so busy here and has been one of the promoters and some kind of action that the oak, in fact, personification of environmental protection, has not in one single word condemned the non-behavior, inaction, the failure of Oliver Dulic and the Ministry to really represent something for Serbia, except the obstacle to making the highway there. My colleague Markicevic is not here. Yes, there are ambassadors from Vojvodina who don't think at all that they are an obstacle to making roads and other parts of Serbia. Neither do we in Vojvodina, thanks to the DS authorities in Vojvodina, nor does the rest of Serbia. To teach my colleague again what green economy is, what it is to protect the environment and what green jobs are. We'll recommend a simple textbook and a simple film can be viewed, it's won the Nobel Prize and it's called "The Uncomfortable Truth". The film was directed and the book was written by Al Gore, former U.S. Vice President, and you can see that it has nothing to do with these actions being conducted against SNS, not on behalf of environmental protection, because environmental protection is something else entirely. Let me also tell my colleague Djelic that he's not finished, there's not an open desk in Novi Sad. The dates keep moving, not because someone doesn't have time to open, but because the work simply in Novi Sad isn't finished. Let me just tell you that the SNS has the intention of taking the most seriously the protection of the environment and that resources in the coming period, but really in the right way. You will also hear it in the exposé, you will hear it from the president of the SNS, or vice-president of the Serbian government, who intends to bring investors into the green economy and how many thousands of green jobs these investors will open. It is the right answer to political intentions to replace human lives and modernise Serbian roads. Thank you. PRESIDENT: Eight minutes and 35 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is made by the MP Ivan Karic. It's at your disposal for 13 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22463	Thank you. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and colleagues, since Mr Markicevic is not here, I hope you'll tell him what I'm about to read. He will now see who he is, in Gornji Milanovac, where the Green Movement was founded, said most of the government members were not in favour of protecting the oak and that the only construction minister, Velimir Ilic, had the courage to say so and the only measures to save it. Ivan Karic said. I think now in this whole debate and in the apology that Mr Markicevic so wished someone else deserved an apology, because neither did I, nor did the Green Movement in Gornji Milanovac, but I said at the establishment of the movement, that the only one who did something to save the oak. Mr Velimir Ilic said the entire venture cost 210,000 euros. Millions and tens of millions of euros are mentioned here. Indeed, the plot he has shown, coming to the field and all that he has done in these few months for it, deserves all the praise. We have expressed that praise, as we have expressed certain praises both to energy and to the minister. But unfortunately, everything about the environment, with the protection of the environment, there's not a single word of praise we can say. I'm sorry that blinded by my ideological performances, everyone here or most of them here didn't listen to what I said. Luckily, I wrote it down. You don't need an oak to be seen as your defeat. No one's won that, etc. So no one here is talking. It wasn't our wish to talk about the oak, but every time the oak appears itself. I hope that Mr. Markicevic will return, that he is not only here to say what he thinks and disappears, because he prefers to listen to himself, not him, but most colleagues say what he has, draws out the card and leaves. That's why there's always between 20 and 50 of us, not 250 of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22464	Thank you. Just to apologize on behalf of Vice President Comic. The DS MP group, before your presentation, has 11 minutes left instead of 13. The word has the People's MP Vladimir Cvian.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22465	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we've been discussing the law for seven hours today, and at least we've talked about the law, the amendments. There's time, and we'll talk about reconstruction. What is particularly interesting to me in this discussion that has been going on for two hours, apropo's possible introduction of a special Ministry of Ecology, is the fact that we have indeed had the opportunity today to see a very good amendment submitted by and fellow Members of Karic, and not only by him, several MPs insisted that a special environment ministry be introduced. Before that, we had the opportunity to hear that a special ministry of human and minority rights was to be introduced. In fact, to be precise, that amendment was to be discussed first, but it doesn't matter. We heard the Ministry of Faith should be introduced as a special idea. We heard there was a need to introduce a special ministry of science, so we heard that the ministry of youth should be specifically singled out. Some have suggested, even at press conferences or here in the tide, that a special euro integration ministry be introduced. One word, when we add it all together, how many governments should have ministries, 35, 40, or who in the time of the Soviet Union? The Soviet Union had 48 ministries at the time of the collapse, so it was a special fruit ministry. I think that for a long time Mikhail Gorbachev was the fruit minister, and especially the Ministry of Vegetables, and especially the Ministry of Canned Fruit or what counterpart Maja Gojkovic said I tweeted, I wondered – who from Alan Ford would anyone suggest introducing the Ministry of Cheese and Military Music? So, all of us in our programmes, regardless of what parties we come from, the SNS also has in its programme, is that the state administration should be proportionate to the amount of money that exists in the budget, in terms of Serbia's needs, not to be the state administration that burdens citizens, that it burdens such a budget that is most burdened, precisely because of the various debts that we have to repay from earlier times, because of the various interest we have to repay from earlier times. It is not difficult to be smart and to come to the Assembly and say – we suggest creating a special ministry, for example. to protect the environment, but if we were to add up all these ideas that are generally not bad, we'd get to one huge government, and I think we all agree together that the government shouldn't be huge, that we shouldn't have 30, 40, 50 ministers, that we really need to cut the amount of money that's given to the state administration. At the end of the line, we even had suggestions to reduce the number of MPs in some future changes to the Constitution, which would also not be a bad idea. For these reasons, it becomes clear why it is necessary to support exactly the government's position, which is presented today by Minister Selakovic, that all amendments of this type are simply rejected, and they are rejected and will not be accepted in the voting day, because 18 ministries, as they are conceived, think it is more than enough. We also believe that, as certain responsibilities of the ministries are in the law proposed, these responsibilities are very precise, there are no classic overlapping of competences. I've never heard of anyone criticizing the overlapping of jurisdiction. I think the law is very precise, and I know how hard it is to write it, and I myself took part in three working groups to draft the Ministry Act. One word, in my opinion, should explain to the citizens that the law proposed and voted on tomorrow, as proposed, is not required by any specific financial means for its implementation. This law, as proposed, will not cost the citizens anything. If we were to introduce all these ministries, some proposed through the amendments, some proposed through the discussion, then we would definitely have to rebalance the budget, raise some VAT or raise taxes. There's no need for that. The best possible solution is precisely this proposed solution, which is that under the financial resources that exist in the budget, the government's reconstruction, the creation of a new system of ministries, and the creation of something that will not cost the state, will not cost a single budget. We've been having a little discussion here in the meantime, just so we don't have to stay in debt. Someone mentioned - there's no money to protect the environment, there's money for planes. Now, I didn't hate to watch a little bit in the meantime how much the new MiG cost, so I figured if it were for a billion, we could buy, like all lawyers, I'm not good at math, but I'd say about 44 MiG. I really don't know how this information is going to owe a billion euros to MIG or planes. We even have photos of those being sold, brand-new. Let's get this discussion into something a little more cultural. There's been a lot of bickering, it's certainly not nice and it doesn't contribute to the reputation of the National Assembly, but there's been a lot of carrying out various false things, like, for example, this for the MIG. We could have bought that a billion euros was spent, the entire carrier of the plane. So that's not true either, that's not how it works, that citizens just know how things are. In one word, there is no dispute that the SNS in the voting day will support this law, we talked about it yesterday, but there is also no dispute that amendments that have been submitted, which are not accepted by the government, which is all 39 amendments, of course, will not come under the support of the SNS, in some cases some of the amendments have been accepted through the amendments of the Committee on Justice, which were later confirmed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, are technical changes, with great assistance and support and MPs of the opposition who voted for these amendments. When we add it all together, there's no need to introduce a special Ministry of Environmental Protection or the Ministry of Ecology or whatever. The ideas, especially the SNS programme in the area, are very clear, the law clearly states who will be in charge, as will be implemented so far, with largely solid successes, and we expect that an absolute majority in the National Assembly in voting day will vote for such a proposed law. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22466	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22467	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament [[Ivan Karic, from the place: I answered the line.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22468	I'm really, Mr. Karic, sorry, look at the Rules of Procedure. Advantage shall be given to the representative of the legislator. Please wait a minute.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22469	In the past little over two hours, I've been keeping an eye on the whole discussion, and I can't say that rationally, on the side, there are no reasons for what the amendment promoters are, through the submission of these amendments, and they're looking for. However, there is one thing that is really very important, which is that governments shouldn't be big-time. I will also add that not only should governments not be bulky, but for an efficient organised state and the ministries should not be bulky. The practice I was talking about the day before yesterday, one bad practice in a dozen previous governments, not in one, has shown that we have become prone to formation and ministries that can truly bear the name, the epithet of the "mamuth ministries". Remember your time at the ministry, I don't speak individually about people who were headed by these ministries, there was simply a political will to form such ministries, so there was, for example, the Ministry of Capital Investments. There were ministries that weren't so big, that had significant names, I don't know if they left anything big behind, like the National Investment Plan Ministry. The ministers changed. We have a really big ministry that is hard to manage and this draft law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act proposes to separate it into two ministries, and that goal is being met by the rationalisation of the state administration, not only by the government that they should not be bulky, but also by the ministries not to be bulky. You should have a ministry that's operational. The amendment currently under discussion also concerns the amendment's proposal to form the Ministry of Environment Protection. Indeed, when you say so, you would say that the ministry, as such, once existed in Serbia, that it worked well, that something cataclysmic happened, and that the ministry could no longer continue to work well. I will remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that before the constitution of this government, there was the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, also one Mammoth Ministry. By the way, there was a Ministry of Energy and Infrastructure in that government, I'm talking about a reconstructed government in 2011. Yesterday I mentioned the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, Local Self-Government and State Administration, Ministry of Faith and Diaspora. So we had the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning in the government in 2001. No, there was a ministry called environmental protection, but it was the Ministry of Health and Environmental Protection. Layku, who listens to seemingly, seems to be approximate, but the resistors are pretty far away from each other. If allowed, I'll be in one sentence in person. In the winter of 1996, the final example of the golden pine of the endemic species that existed on the mountain, which was named after its plant, dried up. About 100 years ago, there were 12 copies, the last of which dried in 1996. The state then did not move its finger to protect it, as many of the previous governments and ministries did not move their fingers to decontamination one significant part of the great Back Channel at Vrbasa, next to which you cannot normally pass from the unpleasant breath that the government had done, as nothing was done to prevent the movement of Drina water flow due to the uncontrollable and illegal exploitation of gravel from the bottom of the river, as it did nothing to prevent even uncontrollable exploitation of objects in the north of Backa, which led to soil evasion, as nothing was done during that period, when the entire environment was in one ministry, to prevent uncontrolled illegal construction of objects in national parks and in nature reserves. As nothing has been done to prevent environmental acid from being polluted in our neighbouring countries, say, Tise, because of the release of toxic matter from mines and Ukraine and Hungary, or in one of our rivers like, say, Rasina. As I don't know if anything has been done to make it visible to the citizens so far, let's say that the citizens of Zrenjana get drinking water in the water at the beginning of the 21st century. Let me complete this part of the exhibition by concluding that there are areas of importance for our country and society that are not fully united in a single portfolio. I'm also talking to you as a citizen of Serbia, so I'm asking a question -- do we have one resort, one that is seriously concerned with population policy in Serbia? So I ask the question – is there one single resort? Why? Because there was probably no level of political hearing in the previous years to form such a thing. There used to be a Ministry of Family Care, if I'm not mistaken, there was a ministry, but since then, we've been separated for a little over a decade and a half. So if we're going to go for that rationality reason, there's something that needs to exist. Yeah. I think it's much more important that a resolution in whose jurisdiction there is some issue on the subject. That's what's more important, how some responsibilities are consumed, how something is done, and not whether it's going to be a special ministry or not. When it comes to this symbolic oak, you know, I always remember that debate, which can also be read in the stenographic notes, the debates from the National Assembly of the Kingdom of Serbia, when the issue of our international commitment to building a railway towards the south was raised. When MPs stood up and shouted that this would turn white milk into black in Serbia, because next to the railroad, from which came these dark clouds from steamed machines will fall on the grass, then blacken the grass, cows will eat that grass that is no longer green but black, and then blackened and milk, and then the citizens of Serbia, or the Serbian population of that time, will fade from that milk, or whatever will happen. You know, if our ancestors had considered life-saving issues for their country, we probably wouldn't have a single kilometer of rail in Serbia, we wouldn't have a single hydropower plant, because we wouldn't be picking up dams. We wouldn't have much to do. We probably wouldn't have a single mine. But the reminders, therefore, just over a year ago there was the Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning. Let's get some principles in here. I didn't say this law was ideal. The law paints the current consensus of the ruling majority's political will in Serbia. Is there anything to object to? There is. Far from it. There is a people's saying that he sees a thorn in another's eye, and he sees no stake in his own. Let's be principled to that extent. I urge you to return to the debate in detail about each of the amendments, without wanting to challenge any replica or reaction, but I have tried to pull through this exhibition something that I think should be a common multiple in this debate. We will hear another amendment that will be explained, which will express the need to form another ministry and I will listen very closely to it really because I think it is a very important area. But back to it, it's much more important how some jurisdiction is exercised, how some jobs are done than whether one area will have a special ministry. Comparative practice tells us really different things that all through history once and the mental ministries existed in some countries whose orientation back then I really don't want to mention here. But once again, let's be rational. It has already been said that the division of the finance and economy ministry will not cause major financial costs. So, logically, look at how big this ministry is today because it has, say, the secretary of state. That number can be divided in half. But at this point I'd like to add something else, something that I think is important, that we haven't acted as a society, we all have to admit, in the previous x years. The sudden changes in the structure of the state administration body are not good for the system unless one good and adequate preparation is behind them. I was amazed by one other thing. In those six months that are so often mentioned, that it has not happened that any, but any of the 250 MPs, or that we include MPs of the ruling majority, could sit down and write a bill on the ministries. Under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the MP has the right to legislative initiatives. So he could extort from the president of the Assembly to put on the agenda at a regular assembly meeting and discuss such a ministry. I repeat this one more time, like any other reconstruction, it could have gone without changing a single point or stuck in the Ministry Act. But it's just that there's been one technical job, a small scale, I mean significant, so I'm asking you that in the spirit in which it lasted in the good part in the last two hours we continue this debate and complete it as it looks like this home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22470	Thank you. Mr. Karic, you wanted a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22471	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, if I begin to agree, I hope you won't twist it on the next line that I said I don't agree. I agree with my esteemed colleague Cvian, I agree with most of the minister. I spoke not of a year but of generational problems that some things symbolize. We proposed the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Spatial Planning from where we took out, so to speak, where we took the mining, and we proposed the Ministry of Energy and Mining, where we took the protection of the environment. We remain in the same optimality as you suggested, seventeen ministries. We remain in the same operation perhaps a little better in our sightings because the resources and protection of the environment are resources in one where a very good minister in his time spoke of resources, across from me, and we are not making a bigger government than he is. That's all we needed to talk about here. There's no raises in the ministries, so we packed up all our stuff in one place. We might do it differently, green especially, if we had the chance, but someday they might have the chance. And in Germany, they fought for decades to come to an opportunity now in September, etc. So there's no increase in the number of ministries. There's an increase in operationality and we're staying, let's say, in the same optimality. What's most awkward here is that whoever uses resources can't control them, because it's against nature. This concept was based on criticism. (President: Time. ) Everything else we went because of political passions, because of some other passions, to another side, but the essence is the same number, the same optimality, just better repacked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22472	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22473	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will not vote for this amendment in the voting day, nor for the previous five. I was reported to talk yesterday, so I gave up. I've also thought about whether or not to answer it many times today, so I haven't. Now, now, in the end, even though it's not over, we're not even close, as far as I can see, we have a lot of amendments, I've come to the phone for one reason, and I want to say something that seems completely amazing to me, what these two last two days look like. In fact, as Pantheli said in one film, my children, who lived with you, and who has met you, will not fall to hell. I have this feeling for two days, so I'm kind of having a hard time and I'm not, I'm really not comfortable with being a MP these two days, and I believe that citizens should criticise us after all they've seen, because everything that's going on seems very irresponsible to me. If this is the National Assembly, if this is the calling of the National Assembly and this is what it's all about, maybe it's better if we didn't do the reconstruction, than if we went straight to the elections, that the people would choose a new assembly, because dear colleagues, do you know how much work is waiting for us in the next period that's tied up... . The chairman, I'd like to ask you, we're hearing some roars here, a throwout is forbidden, no one I'm calling, no one I'm talking to, I'm saying nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22474	I ask the People's Messengers not to earn it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22475	We are waiting for us in the period of EU accession, opening 35 chapters, working on them, standardising our society, repairing our society, creating a more efficient society. With this kind of work, that 6 amendments we've been discussing all day, we're not going to do this work the right way, and there's not just the government responsible, there's the National Assembly, as an institution. So those who are reduced and those who are in the majority. Of course, that the opposition has the right to criticise, to suggest and for the last 13 years, as often as in parliament, I was an opposition rather than a government, I may, although I don't remember, in such an unargumented way of criticizing, attacking, wasting my time, but I don't remember doing it, and if I did, I apologize, but you know, most of the real government. That's been said for four years, most of them have made this proposal, and we will follow all the work of ministers and government, we will be able to criticise it, as we have so far. Through the proposal, without you being able to talk so much about one amendment, I can't understand it. Then the arguments, you know that oak, here's the thing about this amendment, the oak on the highway. So, it was made in the previous term by the government, which was praised with it, that the painting on that bridge, the bridge on Beška, a kilometer long and 500 meters wide was cut down the forest, in order to be an extended highway, remember on that Novosad side, when it was an extended highway and made that someone didn't understand me, that this oak should also be torn down. I come from a city where there is a tree, which is also a monument of culture and protected, "Karadjordjev dud", located in the city center, which is several hundred years old under which Karadjordje cut the edges of Serbian soldiers while they possessed the Smederjev Fortress by Ottomans at the time, and just so they don't look like Ottomans, but to be, they look like European soldiers and as part of a European tradition, and the way they fight and dressed, even the way they were cut, he was still working. We are full of mouths of higher standards, full of EU mouths, full of mouths that citizens can live better, and in such an inefficient way, we speak and work in parliament. In addition, we bring out things that are not absolutely accurate, like where they came from and no one has responded, the story of buying a plane, in the discussion of this amendment, because military planes are flying, polluting our environment, so we need to have a ministry special, not as planned by this law, and that's why we don't have to buy planes. We need to buy planes, and not only planes, and some of you who were ministers in the previous term, ask them, and not only planes, we need to buy missile systems, and not just because it's our international obligation, to protect our skies and air corridors traffic, from attacks by terrorists, etc. And not only because we are not able to do this, the International Community has the right to someone else, if you didn't know that, to protect our sky under international law, so God forbid, let's say Albanian or Croatian planes can get the right to protect our skies, like our neighbours. I don't know if you knew it was possible. Yeah, and that's possible, and there's one more important thing, I guess it's good that our pilots are flying new planes, not that we're giving their widows a medal here, and that half of us here, whether we're government or opposition that day, let go of the tears because of the situation we're in and the way we're experiencing all of this in our own country. So we need to get serious and figure out what's needed, what's priority, and what's less priority. You know, in the previous term there was a ministry, as the minister said, protecting the environment, mining and spatial planning, and there was this Environmental Protection Fund. It may not have served 100 percent, but it has largely served to make local public enterprises, which were the directors, members of the DS, the money to use from the budget. I'll tell you an amazing example, it's for the movie, for Kusturica it's for "Who's singing there," also from Smederev. The director at the local level while the mayor was from the DS, had "Parking Service", and "Purity" is... .
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22476	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22477	... Here you'll see it has to do with the amendment, because I'm saying it doesn't have to mean it'll be more effective if it's an amendment. Then what happened? The City Assembly extended the "Parking Services" authority to have the right and to clean the city, and then it released money from the environmental fund, the company, so the company bought a truck that said "Parking Service", and sent 4 employees to collect garbage in those cans by the street in the city center, where one of them was driving trucks, two of them jumped out of the trailer to take out the trash, and the fourth one was watching if all three were doing what they were supposed to do. It is a state and the way it was once led in the previous term or the way someone who is now the opposition is criticising, led the country. I'll finish up next, let's say, with my thinking. Who guarantees Serbian citizens that the government with ten and twelve ministries is better than 24? That doesn't have to mean anything at all, that number itself doesn't have to mean anything. Serbian citizens need an effective, responsible, thrifty government and a government that knows what it is doing, which has a policy and government that will not empty their pockets, but work in such a way as to improve the economic environment and make Serbian citizens live better. If that's the government with 35 ministers, I'll vote for that government, because no one guarantees that the government with 12 ministers can do the job, with 12 ministers, the government can be so inefficient that the state comes to the brink of bankruptcy, as with the previous government came to the brink of bankruptcy, which we, thank God, have prevented in the past year. So I would ask all my colleagues, if it is possible to become more efficient, to finish this job, because the government will certainly be elected, whether tomorrow, whether on Friday, and then we will have time, of course, to follow the government's work, to criticise or praise it, to support it, to make proposals for some changes, and this way, we seem to be destroying the reputation of the institution in which we sit even more, and then it is wrong for us to listen to the citizens talking about parliament, and we are essentially not giving a picture of what kind of citizens are expecting. They want a quick solution to the problem, a more efficient work of parliament and a faster path towards the European Union, not a waste of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22478	Thank you. National MP Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22479	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, dear fellow MPs, I feel called and I only want to give you one notice. Several opposition MPs said that there was no monitoring of environmental conditions, such as air pollution, such as waterway control, such as environmental control, etc. The fact that I felt called, it's less important, but, in this way, in a negative way, you've called all the doctors who work in public health institutions and deal with people's health. That term is much closer to public health than it is to public health, because it always associates that there is then some secret health, and before the rule of the previous regime, the institutions were called health care. Therefore, I am responsible for your claim, because I come from the Kruševna Institute of Public Health, I am a doctor of hygiene with medical biology that institutions for public health in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, headed by Batut, as well as your City Hall in Belgrade are constantly monitoring the environment through air pollution control and other environmental parameters. In orderly and under the law, they inform the competent institutions, and it is much more important for us to have in these institutions, wherever they sit in one, second, third or fourth ministry, because there is a very dissociative problem that we are dealing with, adequate conversators and correct colleagues who will not be a salon colleague and who have no idea what is going on on in the field and what is the situation. Since the rule of the previous regime, public health institutions have been wiped out with these activities with budgetary activities, and as far as this famous Ecology or Environmental Protection Fund is concerned, I am responsible for saying that no single dinar to public health institutions has been paid for monitoring and controlling air pollution, or air. This was done by institutions from their means in a magical way, as they knew and could. They were assigned to individual mobile station establishments within the Environment Protection Agency and trained people from the Public Health Office who normally worked 40 years ago and this was no problem. All these traffic stations for the measurement of air pollution had almost identical values on the levels of half-tanates, i.e. environmental pollutants, as well as on the measuring instruments on which they are being seduced, and informing, therefore, the Batut Institute and the ministries responsible for monitoring and coordinating all these jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22480	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22481	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have heard a really interesting argument when it comes to the formation of the Ministry of Ecology and I have to tell you something - I'm surprised that you've now got some elan to do, a year you haven't done anything, so now you're asking another year to finish a job that you haven't even started, and you're actually finishing with Serbia, because what are the results of this work that you're supposed to do now, what do you want to do now? Let's analyze the effect. Mr Selakovic, you said - I expected someone to do the Ministry Act. Here, I think you're a serious man, which you and I in Osseten can talk about for days, but I have to tell you something, do you really expect any of the MPs to do the Ministry Act? Yes, the government has fallen, this isn't a government reconstruction, but we've made 10 legal proposals from the DS. The arms and ammunition law after the tragedy in Big Ivanca, you think it's on the agenda? They didn't look at him. Ask the ruling majority MPs if they know what proposals we have made? They have no idea. I'm not denying you. Your life is denying you. We told you this morning that you should single out the building protection sector from the MUP, do you know what the damage is today in Topoli? Tenm euros, and 300 euros costs one anti-urban missile. Who will now explain to the citizens of Serbia that you are a good government? Go to Topol now, go to Vinch and tell them – we are the best government since the arrival of the Southern Slovenians to the Balkans, there was no better government, we are you; and these people will open empty wallets and look into their desolated orchards and say so, you are the best Government. Don't convince me, that's to convince them, because, you know, in Denmark, the government's reconstruction worked one day. The Prime Minister came and said – ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, these are the new ministers, 12 of them, now at work. That's how the government's reconstruction is done in serious countries. And now that we bid, whether or not we want the Ministry of Ecology and whether it should be 12, 15, 24, whether there should be a fruit ministry, or canned fruit. After this tragedy in Topoli, when the city crushed the fruit, we don't need the fruit ministry. But you have to listen to the Democratic Party, so you say it's okay, we'll set up an anti-building protection from the Ministry of the Interior, so we'll assign it to the Ministry of Agriculture, so someone will take care of the anti-urban protection, and we won't let the citizens of Serbia look into the sky. Otherwise, whether or not you're doing a government reconstruction. Here, I made a suggestion today. All these ministries that don't do anything, put the science fiction ministry, or five or six more serious ones that might try to do something, or disband the government and go home. The government fell anyway, because this really doesn't make any sense. You say you want a rational government. Should I ask if there'll be a portfolio-free ministry in that rational government? What does a minister do without portfolios in a rational government, a thrifty government. Give him anti-urban protection. If we don't want to have the Ministry of Ecology. So ask him if you can do environmentals? Even though you're holding the ministry without portfolios, and you don't have the Ministry of Ecology and you don't have the Anti-Build Protection Sector, why did you even shoot down the government? What you represent is the reconstruction of the government, in fact, its fall, and you and we are aware of that. I've only got one thing to tell you for the last time, which I've told you today. A broken car can't change its own spare parts. The spares are mostly worse than the original ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22482	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22483	Please count my time from an authorised representative. I will refer to previous discussions of MPs from the SNS parliamentary group, both colleagues and colleagues. We're about to be told what we're holding back this government, which is why we're using our 55 minutes that belong to us in the Rules of Procedure. Well, gentlemen, you've kept the state under ice for six months, it hasn't worked, there's been a reconstruction from today to tomorrow. As announced in March, every week we expected to get new ministers who would start doing something. I would agree with my colleagues, these leaving ministers, and the government itself is the worst government, and I will limit myself, since 2000, a government that hasn't practically worked. If a reconstruction has been carried out since 13 months, then there's no question about the government's work. Then we're talking about rationality, how we've been discussing certain amendments for a long time today, so we're talking about old personal cuttings of feathers and things like that, I'd say, things that are really for everyone, except for this assembly. But it has to do with the planes Mr. Cvian talked about with the reconstruction of this government and how and with the law on amendments to the Ministry Act and with traffic and with defence and with some other topics. Why? Well, because the billions of dinars, he says here very Decidantly, Serbia originally intended to acquire 12 aircraft, but still, according to some, it was later decided to buy six planes and two radar systems, which would require a billion euros. That includes maintaining these moments that are being bought. Gentlemen, do you know what this has to do with all these ministries? For that money, of course, they'll be more comfortable with new pilots, but for that money, they could have reconstructed roads, for that money they could have made toilets in schools where there were no toilets, for that money they could have obtained drugs, for that money could have been done a lot of things in science, so Petnica wouldn't have been before closing, so scientists wouldn't have gone abroad to work, so students wouldn't go abroad to work, so they wouldn't have come back as ministers. For these billions of dinars, it could be invested in ecology, so Serbia would not look like that, respected ministers, that the Bački Channel smells like it at Vrbasa. I'm not quite sure if you're referring by chance or deliberately because there's the next local election, but it's true, that channel stinks. If there was an ecological dinar going for the right purpose, not the one set by the finance minister, then that channel wouldn't smell, then other environmental problems would be solved. So, instead, you decided to buy a billion-euro military equipment, or aircraft, in this situation. Gentlemen, that's not a real assessment. What I'm asking is, so that we don't speculate on these planes, this is really something that would be important for the public to hear, that the National Assembly is aware of how many planes will be purchased, how many radar systems, how they will be paid, when they will be paid, whether that's why the procurement procedure was carried out, or whether we had the opportunity to get from more bidders of those planes, to assess whether these planes were perhaps, what they're speculating about these days, or military analysts talking about, meant for Syria, so since the arms embargo for Syria was introduced, we bought them better. Truth be told, those planes are no longer made. So these are the questions we're looking for answers to. These are questions that citizens are looking for answers to. Of course, it would have been better if we had singled out something of those billions of euros for anti-building missiles, so that today the city did not destroy the orchards, as it did when it was a city this season and in other areas. Those billions of euros could have been invested much more rationally, of course, if you were to be a rational government and if we had a rational position that, on a phone call or on the boss's orders, did not do as she was told. For many of the things we told you 10, 12 months ago, you now realize that you were wrong. You are now coming to these ideas of ours as your ideas, so now you're talking – we might need the Ministry of Ecology, but we don't have enough courage for that. What courage? You have 126 hands, I hope you have them after the fact that the URS isn't with you, but for that law, the DS will vote, I'm sure the rest of the opposition will. Be a little more serious when you listen to opposition MPs. We're not like you guys making bad moves, we're sorry. We are sorry for our, or your children, who, after finishing school, are leaving to look for work outside Serbia. They're not leaving now because of us, I guess now you're in the government. Don't let us go back. Indeed, even when MPs from my parliamentary group speak of a time of five years ago, I suggest that this is not the time to talk about it now. We have a next period that we need to talk about together, we need to make solutions together, not talk about how the government worked 15 or 20 years ago. We're talking about the current current situation, about Serbia as I described it the other day, so you said it was cataclysmic. It is, cataclysmically and worse than that and in health care, and in education, and in culture, and in information, and in education, and in science, and in training, and in economics that we don't talk. Gentlemen, very serious things are ahead of us. Get serious. Take us seriously. We're not saying this for the tenth time because we're going to get some vote in the election no more at the bar or at the national level, we're doing it for us and for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22484	Legally on the line, MP Vladimir Cvian. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22485	I listened very carefully to the predecessor who mentioned my last name, so I have the right to the line. I must say, I liked a lot of what he said could be done for a billion euros. Why didn't half of it happen two years ago, that's all I care about? I'm not leaving early, two years ago, three years ago. Don't just, please, answer to me later on about the classic one who wore a badge or some shirt. I didn't wear a badge or a shirt, as well as 90% of today's SNS parliamentary group. At that time, I wrote books on the harmonisation of our domestic law with EU law. Yeah, there's a lot he can do with a billion euros. It could've been the previous government, so it didn't. Also, I have to notice one inconsistencies again. It is said first that it is safe, and citizens are watching this, that a billion euros has been invested in planes. I repeat, for a billion euros here today, online can buy, if I count well, 90 and a few moments. It's with discounts and everything. So, first it is said that so much has been spent, and then it is said to be -- we expect official data. Well, he can't, either one or the other. We're going to have a government reconstruction. The Minister of Defense will be here in resignation, no problem. I'm sure they'll give you some accurate data, but really let's not use certain numbers here anymore and read reports that I don't know where they come from -- whether from Alan Ford, Mickey's Funner or anything like that. I agree with the fact that we need to get serious here with work and that, if we're going to do this seriously, we use official and relevant data, not what comes from the tabloids or Alan Ford. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22486	Thank you. Right on line, MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22487	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like at least when my fellow MPs show up at least to speak as much truth as possible, at least to make an effort. If they don't know anything, they don't have to talk about it. It's about this government being the worst. Otherwise, the government calmed down the dinar course and today it is lower by four dinars of the euro than it was last year at this time. The same government has calmed down the inflation we found and is now single-digit at 8.8% with a trend of further decline. This government, as much as you step up, reduces the country's debt, but even if we don't owe the dinar to repay credits, the debt would grow because of the interest that has come to us as much as 60% of gross products. You can't accuse us of that. Unemployment has been reduced from 25.5% to 24.2%, though. These are truly modest results, we cannot be satisfied with them, but the MPs who supported the previous government should ask themselves why they supported such a government that had quite the opposite and completely unsuccessful results in the past period. The question together is that we work together, I agree, but, believe me, we have little fear in the sincerity of your intentions, given how you treated the state, the budget and the citizens of Serbia. As far as traffic infrastructure is concerned, it's better and more built today than before, but we're not happy with that either, we're going to ask it to be even more. When it comes to those famous MiG-29 and M-2 planes... (President: Time. I'm done. ... One on the international stock market costs between $24.5m and 27m, which is about 20m euros somewhere. So don't tell that story anymore. Let me remind you that your Secretary of Defense was very fond of taking pictures on planes, flying them. Let me tell you, for information, at the last airport he organized, they had to extend their resources on planes. You know why? For the tires. Our pilots didn't even have the tires on which the planes would fly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22488	Thank you. Mr. Shormaz, you signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22489	For the replica, not that it's about what I've been commenting on. For example, that I said we were intruding the government, that someone from the opposition was bothering the government to lead Serbia faster into the EU, no, I didn't say that at any point. Mr. Veselinović, for example, talked about it. I said that parliament is inefficient, that this work is a bad picture of Serbia's parliament for the last two days, and that Serbia and Serbia's citizens need a much more efficient parliament to do the job that awaits us in the European integration process. Don't put anything in my mouth I didn't say. My colleagues already said about the plane, but I would also point out that it wasn't radar systems, it was a combination of radar rocket systems and that we were lucky and we were a little smarter if we had them in 1999, hardly having that damage we had in 1999. It is so irresponsible to listen to someone who, as a party since 2000, had three Prime Ministers here in six governments and one in which he had no Prime Minister, most of them. Which, by the way, the minister without a portfolio was the current president of the same DS, and then he wonders what he's doing here or there. So he's asking us why there aren't any toilets in schools? Why isn't he investing in science, why aren't paths made? The Democratic Party has ruled Serbia for 15 years. That's why there isn't, because DS ruled. That is why the government of Mirko Cvetkovic was the worst government, not in the last 15 years, but in Serbia's history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22490	Dr. Janko Veselinović, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22491	Thank you. So I don't understand how you're going to spend a billion euros buying six planes if they cost 20m euros, as I don't understand how you've sold your Emirat brothers for 30% of the price value? Many things are not clear to me, regarding decisions of the ruling coalition, so please explain to us. I'm not saying the money's been paid. The news from the May first government vice president's meeting with Russian officials is the one I read. Please give us an explanation. Give us an explanation for all the promises you've made before, that the aflatoxin level will be reduced by 15 days, so it hasn't been reduced in ten months. The following facts speak of your efficiency, gentlemen. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not work all January until nearly half of February, did not work from March 15th to May 1st, to say, the season when parliament was due to work, full 45 days. She didn't work from July 16th to August 26th. I'm only talking about this year. So you're an inefficient government. We have been an example of a working parliament in relation to this Parliament, making laws, but in a government compared to your government, because it has achieved a goal that you cannot achieve. True, you have a very strong tendency to present media through pink glasses that white and what is black, but unfortunately that came to an end, unfortunately for you, because citizens recognized it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22492	The right to the replica will only have Mr. Babic. You, Mr. Shormaz, have no right, you are not personally mentioned, nor is your exposure. Here you go, Mr. Granny.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22493	What the previous does not know, and does not know that there is a Rules of Procedure that has not written by the SNS, there are regular sessions, that they are autumn and spring sessions. This assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has worked every month for the past 13 months. Since the founding and voting of the government of the Republic of Serbia, he has worked every month. On the other hand, I understand Mr. Veselinović's mathematics. I may be rare, but I understand her. Six planes per 20m euros directed by the DS is a billion euros and per billing table. You know, six times 20 is 120 million, but when there are resellers, then commissions, so for this account, then for that account, then for the minister, then for the assistant, then for this, then for that, you get a billion euros, but only it's a debt of the state directed by DS, and you get a value this big. So I absolutely understand this mathematics six times 20 million equal to a billion euros, but a billion euros in account, both in debt and in debt, of Serbian citizens, and in the pocket of those who have conducted such actions, and who do not have such a calculation and such mathematics and such a multiplication table. It's gone. You know what the Public Procurement Act means, you know who can buy, what price he can buy, where those funds will go, where that money will go. No commissions, a time passed which, fortunately, Serbian citizens in the DS will never return again, precisely because of the multiplication table you have been applying for the past 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22494	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Shormaz, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22495	Article 107 - dignity of the National Assembly. I mean, the chairman, that you had to react when a great lie was told here. I continue to claim that the dignity of the National Assembly is collapsing and that the integrity of the National Assembly is undermined by the unserious messengers who say things that are not true. January 22, 23, 24, 28, 29, 30 — done. For example, April 2, 3, 5, 8, or let's go to May, which is said 14, 15, 16, 20, 21, 22, 27, 28, 29. July 25th was voting day, almost all of July it was done. Almost all of it. It was said here that it wasn't done. Just because someone doesn't know when they're coming to work that the citizens have entrusted him with and what they're doing here, that's not the problem with us. But it must not be allowed to destroy parliament in such a way as to be the most important institution in the country, which I repeat, has a lot of work to do in the next period and must be more efficient and must work better in the citizens' interest to be a part of the EU as soon as possible, for which, as far as I know, we are all behind this, except maybe one party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22496	Thank you. The word is by MP Predrag Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22497	The President-in-Office, on five occasions, I was registered as an authorised representative on this agenda, and there were technical errors. Then I signed up. Normally, it takes a long time, so the secretary, the deputy, is replaced, and the order is shut down. I even canceled once. Then I also appeared as a replica after the minister's presentation, nothing ugly, simply a replica for one example. Do you know when it was? Now you allow replicas. I'm not asking you to vote on that, but please use your right. You are a determined lady in a responsible position and it is your right not to allow them to appear as two dilemmas whether one ignorance or other ignorance is referred to the Rules of Procedure. Is he who claims that the National Assembly hasn't worked for a month? Come on, please, so the National Assembly works 365 days a year. If you don't know what time it is, I understand that in the heat of a political struggle you'll be wrong, but that's what she's been doing because it costs so much or this is the date when the meeting was held, please. I understand it's all part of a political struggle, but it's all costing. Now we're in a position to give here today to those who are watching, and I remind them, at 20.45 you have a game, at 19.00 you had a puzzle, you could learn something. (President: Time. I'm done. Then there was news, and what's being discussed here is imposing a false dilemma. Wherever there are only two dilemmas, as we have listened to for two hours – either oak or human lives, know that someone is trying to deceive you. It's a matchmaking. There are no two dilemmas. There are many solutions by those who know and here there are many MPs from all MPs who are willing to talk about solutions that will help even under this technical law on amending the law. Please allow these MPs to turn here. I apologize if anyone is offended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22498	Mr. Markovic, two minutes and 39 seconds. The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22499	Indeed, with all the patience and understanding and entry into this debate is below each level by who knows which time. We have two requests or lessons, whatever you want. First, let Mr. Babic urgently, if he can run, go to the prosecution and take a list of all DS members to arrest us all first thing in the morning. How long do you think you're chairing to tolerate these ground-floor, dirty attempts at criminalising a party? If we're criminals, gentlemen, arrest us. This tells us a party representative who has managed to enter so deeply into crime within a year, which will only be seen to be terrible, and that tells us a representative of the government, a story of saving and spending public money. Do you want me to ask you something now, Mr. Granny? (President: Do not address the MP directly. ) Does Mr. Vukic know, and I don't think he knows where his secretary of state, Nikolic, is. Photo Tony, where is he right now? Is it possible San Antonio, Texas, isn't learning English about state money? Why don't you come out and say it here? How long do you think we put up with this nonsense at the expense of the DS, from whom, from the angels of the SNS? Underneath every level. I guarantee you, this same Alexander Vukic, whom you call upon, would surely, since I know he has enough knowledge and political experience, advised you, since you are the government, let the opposition do his job, and if you do not like it, be responsible for power, patiently criticise or answer the argument. If not, shut up and let's finish this law. No, but you're telling us now that we're doing our job, and you're letting Mr. Shormaz spread our hands what we're talking about here. No, we'll just shut up, eat the green apples.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22500	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22501	I will again be your lawyer, although Mr. Stefanovic did not legislate with his professional training, I will also tell you that silence on the knowledge that a crime has also been committed. Now it's been said that the SNS has committed and committed so much crime in the past year and you have knowledge of it. Why don't you shut up? The same message that was sent to me, I'm like in table tennis returning my colleague. Why doesn't he do it if he has knowledge and if it's true? I'll be grateful. But this Assembly will never make us a courtroom, nor are we lawyers, nor are we prosecutors, nor are we judges, nor do we have rights for such a thing, nor is it foreseen by the Constitution. What you need to know is that when your distinguished colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group make such a fine argument that these planes cost 20m euros each, and then your MPs as learned, as parrots all day, repeat that it is a billion euros. What's that other thing than the math and the DS multiplication tables over the last 12 years? Then you'll have to fight for it. Don't honor me. That is what distinguished counterpart Stefanovic should respect his MPs who claim so and say it is an exposure. I'm afraid that exposure remains the second thing when you take away his first two letters and that's the only essence of that exposure without the first two letters.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22502	Thank you. Since we've been completely off topic, we've been talking about things that aren't even on the agenda of this session, I'm responsible for what's going on at the session, and in this sense we're going to keep talking about amendments. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22503	Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, because every MP is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, because my colleague from the DS has begun to tell things that should not be spoken in the Assembly, especially when it comes to the arrests of not individual members, but the entire membership of a political party. I think that we are done with this story and that no one, for the sake of freedom of thought and speech, can and should not be arrested, especially since the current president of the Republic of Serbia was also arrested for freedom of mind and speech and served in prison. So that's why you don't have to worry. Every authority, including this one, is responsible for the laws being enforced. All this is happening now is not directed against any political party.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22504	Mr. Arsic, Mr. Babic's replicated on behalf of the SNS, so I ask you to refrain from harming the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22505	No, he's in his own personal name, because he was personally mentioned. It's just that some of these things are happening. The problem is here and why there is a suspicion that a lot of things have been kept quiet because many of what my colleague Babic read in the afternoon session about the Special Prosecutor's Office's report on organised crime is that a large number of investigations that are now being conducted were initiated during your government's time, and then, without any valid legal reason, he was stopped and put in the drawer. We didn't invent hot water. We just removed the items from the drawer that were stopped and continued their processing in that same composition of the judicial and prosecutorial bodies that we found last year at this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22506	Who wanted to go by the Rules of Procedure? Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22507	Although I respect that you tried to end this debate, I once again have to ask for a word, Members 106 and 107. I thought we agreed two days ago here with the minister as we refer to the justice system, that if someone, if they claim to have knowledge of some crime, is obliged to initiate the procedure, so Mr. Babic is talking about how it was implanted in the prices, let another party suit him. Please, now you have allowed Mr. Arsic to say the next sentence – we have removed the items from the drawer. Excuse me, is Mr. Arsic a prosecutor in this country, is he a cop? What does “we ” mean? Did the SNS take the items out of the drawer? Is that allowed, Mr. Selakovic, in our legal order? I believe you don't know anything about taking things out of the drawer, even though you're the minister of justice and you don't need to know. But here, Mr. Arsic, and he represents here the SNS, he says -- we took the items out of the drawer. I also think it's a pointless debate, reading the date when parliament worked, when it didn't work. I also appeal to that, Mrs. Kovac, that you sat here all day in the bench waiting to talk about your amendment and we were all a little overused in using the Rules of Procedure and Replications, but now it's the end of the day. Let's stop that. There are a lot more important amendments. The LDP is an important amendment that we have submitted, concerning the proposed model for reducing the administration. I'm afraid we won't come to that amendment if we continue to talk now about the prison days of Tomislav Nikolic of Gjilan in 1995. It really has nothing to do with 2013. Mr. Nikolic only in the meantime, so he says, gave up that policy. I don't see why Mr. Arsic is re-launching the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22508	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22509	Madam Chairman, you have violated Article 27. Rules of Procedure. I don't understand what archaic you're giving the right to replicate the same exposure and not to someone. You do not give me the right to a replica, and I am directly mentioned by Mr Stefanovic and told the truth about something I was saying. I think that's how you violate Article 27. The Rules of Procedure and I will ask the Assembly to declare this in the voting day, but I ask you to give me the right to reply, I will not speak for two minutes, so that we all may be equal in Parliament. I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22510	Can I answer if you're done? So it's not about the archaic, that I'm giving someone the right to the replica. This is about the application of Article 104. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The chairman decides on the right to reply. We've lost the last half hour and something more in our replicas because we've just gotten away from the subject, the topic is very important, we're sitting here since 12:00. So let us also allow the MPs who are proposing amendments to talk about their amendments. I'm asking you most nicely. That's why I wanted to break the line on this subject, so we could get back to the amendment. Please, because it is important for all of us and for the citizens of Serbia. (Dear Shormaz, from the place: should I answer you whether I agree or not?) Mr. Stefanovic, do you want the Rules of Procedure? Do you allow me to finish with the previous speaker? Do you want to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Dear Shormaz, from the place: yes. You've done two different things for the same exposure. All right, they'll vote. You don't have to explain. They're going to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22511	With my apology to you and Mr. Shormaz, I think that the injured article 27, article 106, and Article 107, the same basis, since I'm mentioned by name, so you haven't given me a replica, but I understand your explanation and I accept it, with the fact that I have to point out for the injury of the other two members that it is unclear why such anger and this reaction is caused when one of the MPs brings out the information that was available several days in the press. You can say it's incorrect. What's more, you can prove it's incorrect and I accept it, but I don't understand this kind of anxiety and this kind of strong reaction on your part. After all, aren't you used to, you just, over your newspaper being arrested by people? Then you don't mind. And when someone writes in the list “Today” that it costs so much, they may be wrong today. (President: Mr Stefanovic, stick to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, please. That's what the Rules of Procedure is about. That thing caused, Madam Chairman, the biggest controversy, completely unnecessary. Someone put out the information that's available to everyone, and then it bothers me. Why don't you mind when they arrest so many people over the paper? What don't you mind? Then you say, "That's what the paper says." So, fence up on that, too. We're not saying this is 100% true, and you told us it wasn't true. Then why are we even moving on? You say it's not, we say -- here, people, we read this. I think we should continue the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22512	Mr. Arsic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22513	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since I can't directly address my colleague Đurić, I'm going to ask the chairman to convey on my behalf my apology for my mispronouncement, it wasn't my wish, nor my own state organs. A more appropriate sentence would be that we are trying to create an ambience, that judicial, prosecutorial and other state authorities are doing their job, that we are not going to put pressure on, both by legislative, both by the executive authority and by those authorities, and that we are stopping cases that are being prosecuted in accordance with the law and the Constitution. I'm really sorry about that lapus I had.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22514	Thank you. Dr Marko Atlagic has signed up to talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22515	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I think this amendment by colleagues Karic is very interesting. I'm sorry I can't support him, but Mr. Karic, on several occasions in this assembly, in front of the Greens, really talked about protecting and improving the human environment very affirmatively, and it would be better if we had talked about such things all the time today, not other things that are not at all about the Ministry Act. I kept records, I was there the whole time, as you could see, in the assembly. I'm just saying, outside of this law, the president of the state has been mentioned 42 times, 44 times the first Deputy Prime Minister without any context regarding the Ministry Act. You know what, I don't want to talk about it. They defend themselves best and their actions, but we from the SNS are proud of our SNS president. Allow me now on this amendment. I really support Mr. Karic, when he said that the future will not be so easy for us, that is, it will be very dreary if we don't take care of the protection and promotion of the human environment. We all know that. The whole world knows that. That's why protecting and improving the human environment is a matter not only of one ministry, but of many ministries. Much more important is the content that we need to implement. Besides, it's not just a matter of one ministry. I'll mention a ministry that's very close, let's say that we've established a Ministry of Protection and the promotion of the human environment, which is the Ministry of Education and Science. Today someone shy just mentioned it. Imagine, in just one teaching class, 70 hours a year, if only two hours dedicated to the contents of the human environment, in terms of raising our future generations, because then we wouldn't have billboards – Let's clear Serbia, but maybe it would be better if we had – let's not get dirty on Serbia, let's not pollute Serbia. We do always deal with the consequences, not the causes. Many opposition MPs today spoke of funds. I really don't think it's correct to spend the resources that are meant to protect and improve the human environment. You know I'm not a man by heart. Allow for the end, regarding this protection, to quote two quotes. On September 21st and 22nd, 2012 Mr Dinkic, in this Assembly, said: "Dulić used non-purpose funds for the pre-election campaign DS to subsidise companies that import batteries and waste tyres to recycle them. “ A second quote from the State Auditor. I don't usually quote the press, but the state institution, because I don't trust the press, and I don't trust myself. I trust the state institutions, we have no one else. I quote the state auditor, who said in a 2002 report for protecting and improving the human environment "that posters and billboards with messages "Let's Clean Serbia", cost more than half a million euros, as well as for advertising in one daily list", finished the quote. You probably know which list. It was subsequently found that the fund, i.e. the ministry, paid even for the support of the lions on Palic, which was here. Here, ladies and gentlemen, where the money went. If we had used this, as someone said, in more Polish, so to build on schools, if we'd used in medicine, if we'd used the education work in schools to protect and improve the human environment, we wouldn't have such dirty streets in the city of Belgrade. You know, they're pretty dirty. That's what we walk on every day, we see it well, etc. So, we're in favour of the future, in the near future, that we're thinking eventually about a special ministry, but it's not just going to solve it. I'm surprised the Ministry of Education didn't take action through all the teaching classes. It takes two hours of 70, if it's two hours a week, 70 a year, that two hours each teaching course devotes itself to protecting and improving the human environment, in terms of raising our future generations. That's how we get cleaner cities. Once again, I say, really in this assembly, my colleague Karic is affirming it. That's what I really support. I'm sorry I can't support the special ministry, because it's not going to solve it, but content, and the contents are intertwined through many ministries and through many entities, starting from ourselves. In the end, we heard here today, I have to finish this sentence, many things, many false things. Who's to blame? You know exactly who he is, the former government as much as this government. You'll have a chance to say that in the reconstruction of the government. But, gentlemen, let me tell you, it's a little bit that you've destroyed our present and for many generations you've kidnapped the future, and you wanted, if you had stayed in power, to destroy the Serbian heritage. You see, that's not what the citizens of Serbia have given you, for our good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22516	Thank you. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22517	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, my amendment was the second in a row, after eight and a half hours, I finally got my turn. It's hard to get a word in, let alone do something for my voters. I have proposed to the amendment that the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights be returned. It was rejected, with an explanation and this rationality criterion like what was with the Ministry of Ecology. I'm surprised the minister talks a few times about a lot of ministries, and here are only two proposed amendments, nothing more. Even the Ministry of Ecology has been proposed only to separate itself from the existing one, and only the Human and Minority Rights Ministry, which in the government functioned here in 2008. My experience suggests that despite objections at the time, the ministry was far more successful than the office that existed before and which was now restored. In my opinion, the basic question is, I am not entering the logic that the parliamentary majority is now using and what is for the parliamentary majority of priorities and how this legislation will regulate its governance. However, I think it is essential that there is a serious approach to solving the problems that have been before and which, based on my proposal, should be covered by the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights? I have here these days a statement from the director of the Human and Minority Rights Office. What's she saying? The international community's assessments, when it comes to human and minority rights, are positive, and that our country's obligations in the EU negotiation process will be to provide guarantees that full application of legal solutions has been ensured. Here's the essential question. There's a lot of good legal solutions. The National Council was also created. How much is it used in practice? The Ministry of Education directly obstructs, not only the Law on National Councils of National Minorities, but also the provisions of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, when it comes to the competences of the National Council on School Management. That's what I was talking about the day before yesterday when it was a discussion in principle. Let's move on, I'm asking the question of the Minister of Justice - Why in Presevo, Bujanovac, Presevo Valley the level of participation of Albanians in judicial institutions was far lower than in the 1970s, the 1980s? At that time, a proportional involvement of Albanians was almost resolved in Presevo, at least in the first-degree court, municipal and former law enforcement. Currently, municipal courts that are now judicial units within the Vranj basic court have been brought down to only three Albanian judges of over 50 as many as this court has. Not to mention the High Court in Vranj, not to mention the Court of Appeal where there are no judges, but also the translator. Now I ask the question – the law is foreseen, and why is it not realized? For four years, I've been talking to the ministry's representatives, one lawyer to accept, but it can't be accepted even though they've applied. This way it can't, how it can fix the ethnic structure and not talk because it's just a dream of being proportionate to the judicial authorities and a series of other state bodies. If this continues, government and other state bodies will continue. Furthermore, the law is a beautiful and constitutionally regulated right to use minority language. Since I've known about the elections, they've always been on Albanian ballots in Presevo, Bujanovac, Medvedji. The law on a single voter's list provides for this right, but in the last election, we only had voters in a Cyrillic letter. What caused these elections to be drastically damaged? You can be wrong about what the OSCE gave. That's what I was carrying. It wasn't normal for these elections in Presevo and Bujanovac and in Medvedja. Because within an hour of those 12 votes, there were a dozen of them coming back and they couldn't find themselves in those ballots because their names were deformed. Because of a series of markings that even those who know Cyrillic couldn't decrypt, two x's, three x's or something like that. I'm saying that the most illegal election was made was the last one in Presevo, and I'm not talking about the fact that during electoral silence, there were police interventions and that there were council candidates arrested. That there was a four-hour search at our candidate boardwoman's house in the Bujanovac Municipality. I think that's the point. Whether or not there's going to be a ministry, that's your assessment, but how you're going to solve this serious matter, a serious problem, that's what this government needs to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22518	National MP Aleksandar Senic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new article 1a. On the basis of Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, rejected this amendment. Discarded amendments to Article 163(4) Rules of Procedure cannot be discussed and are not voted on. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ivan Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22519	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, this amendment refers to Article 2 which is in line with the amendment to Article 1 which I have submitted, as regards the amendment of the proposal of the existing one, which came from the Government on the Law on Ministrys. I believe this amendment is trying to correct political inconsistencies when it comes to the Ministry of Finance and Business. In the afternoon debate, I asked a number of questions, and I analyzed how the government thinks it's implementing this announced new economic policy, political reform in that sense, and I don't think there's much chance that it's going to work out and there's not much chance of what it's going to try in that sense. Why am I saying this? Because I mentioned that in 2011 you were saying and collecting citizens' signatures, you were talking about how you would raise the number of ministries to 12, then in 2012 in the Ministry Act you united the Ministry of Economy, i.e. economy and finance, by saying that in this way they were being saved. The ministry was 17 in that proposal and four offices. Today we have an increase in the number of ministries. Today you say it will not cost the citizens of Serbia additionally and will contribute to the government's better work in terms of improving the economic situation in Serbia. I think the message you're sending, the message that everything is allowed for political purposes, so that you can throw out Mladjan Dinkic, remove him, separate these two functions of one ministry into two parts, so that two officials of the Serbian Progressive Party can take seats in that reconstructed government. It is clear that this reshuffle of government is an ordinary farce. That the farce is also the state of the economy, the way that the government, because not only Mladjan Dinkic made decisions important for economic life in Serbia, nor the decision on budget and rebalancing, nor the set of tax laws. Speaking, let's say the level of investment that is smallest in Europe, we have less foreign investment than Albania, less than Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's devastating. With a proposal like this, we don't think you're going to bring improvement. Mr. Minister, you mentioned the Ministry of Population Policy earlier. You said it was a very good proposal, that there should be a need to take care of population policy, that it was possible. The economic measures you have implemented over the past year are doing exactly the opposite of supporting a positive population policy. Do you know how much food she's collected in Serbia in a year? Thirteen percent. Real profits have fallen. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that after seven months, children don't take vaccines? It's something that requires a serious population policy, not an approach to establishing another ministry. That the citizens of Serbia, and we from the Democratic Party, are afraid of your intricacies, and how will you, when you have two ministries of this one great one, how will you bring economic measures? Our fears are best confirmed by today's announcement by the president of the Republic, which boasts that exports of a billion-and-a-half FYI will contribute to Serbia's revenue from 13 million dinar VAT. It's a really outrageous statement, for someone who doesn't deal with economics and economy, I really don't think the president's advisor can say that, can't even qualify, that kind of statement. Once again, I call on you to be politically consistent and to accept these amendments concerning the Ministry of Industry and Finance, because separating the Ministry of Youth Dinkic and kicking him out of the government, setting him up as a consultant for the United Arab Emirates is not enough for the economic situation to be improved in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22520	Thank you. Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22521	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so as far as consistency is concerned, let's be consistent and tell us in what context I mentioned population policy as a portfolio. I said, if we single out an area, in its importance to one society and one state, and that the importance of that area is such as environmental protection, which is absolutely undisputed, that it needs to be given one special resort. I asked the question – do we have bigger problems right now than the problem of Serbia's depopulation. And that's not a problem that lasts for a year, which lasts for two years, it's a problem that lasts almost three decades. It's a problem that exists. Then to that still touched listeners in their hearts and to say how many vaccines there are for children in Serbia. You know that finding I can answer with a counter argument. How long until these last year, the Tolak Institute has no longer produced vaccines at all. As far as I know, in these previous, not 12 months, it took time to start production again after years of production in Serbia started. "Tarlak" even earned a profit in that period, and by then it was in someone's interest, I suppose, that it would probably completely stop working and sell the Buddha for why, as has happened with many institutes with many institutions in a long previous period. Not now, 12 months, so in those 12 months, no child has received a vaccine. What does that look like? It's like that milk talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22522	Ivan Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22523	Mr. Minister, if you're asking me to repeat every word that you've said, to quote, please, please, what I've said, don't translate. I didn't say that no child received the vaccine, but I said that certain types of vaccines can't be given to children for seven months and that's true. It doesn't matter, it has nothing to do with "Torak" and whether or not "Torak" has a connection, whether it has a profit, it's important that children are healthy, that citizens can be treated. You are aware of the situation in Serbia and do not accuse us, because we did not lead these economic and financial portfolios, were led by your coalition partners and discussed it with them. I really don't understand this answer of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22524	Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22525	You read me wrong again, I was talking about context, so in what context I mentioned population policy. I think I've made myself absolutely clear, and I've made that very clear. I have no intention of defending anyone, but as far as I remember, in the previous government, the portfolio of finance was held by the DS, and that job was done by Mirko Cvetkovic, he was also Minister of Finance and Prime Minister, you correct me if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22526	Replica, Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22527	The economy's portfolio didn't run the DS, and you know it well, as it didn't run a health resort, but we wouldn't let coalition partners do this with drugs and vaccines. That's what I'm talking about, you're headquarters, you're responsible. If you honor us that we were responsible for the past period, you are now responsible, more than anyone else.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22528	Thank you. National MP Vesna Rakonjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22529	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, dear colleagues, only one notice regarding the shortage of famous vaccines. The vaccine shortage occurred the moment the co-ordinators of all public health institutions failed to try to reach the fund manager who was from the DS at the time, and there was a campaign time, an election campaign. There was no director of Batuta Institute for Public Health at the time. It couldn't be called a tender and it couldn't be done to obtain almost all the vaccines for the vaccination of children, since birth and beyond. So I'd like to finish this subject once and for all the information you need, so what you need to do to speak truthfully here, ask your fund manager who was then in office and about the situation that was going on at the time. What does not now have vaccines is due only to this period, and I can do so in chronological and written form to deliver to you from all the co-ordinators for the vaccination of all public health institutions in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in one period it has been overcome by the successful coordination of all these people and the superhuman efforts of those institutions that have had excess vaccines delivered to other institutions. However, during one period these stocks were also spent and were waiting for a tender and supply, which is what this is all about. Please don't abuse a very sensitive subject anymore, because it was just like I was telling you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22530	Thank you. Ivan Jovanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22531	I really don't know. Is it possible for us to hear this today at the National Assembly tonight? It is too late, but, really, someone claims that a year and a half of the election, that DS is to blame for getting the vaccines, it's an amazing thing for people, it's really amazing. There weren't any shortages a year and a half or two ago, and today they are, and it's our fault again. Will you once take something to do if you don't know how to work, if you're inextricable, leave it to others. Resign your resignations, call the elections, do whatever it takes just to try to bring life in Serbia to normal. That's what this is all about today. Stop accusing the DS of everything. No one trusts you anymore. It's like children's fairy tales what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22532	Thank you. Vesna Rakonjac, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22533	Please, these aren't children's fairy tales. You need to know the system of functioning the supply of drugs. So, based on estimates and needs of drugs and vaccines, one responsible institution is supplied on an annual basis and plans are made on an annual basis. These were plans for 2012, 2013. So, midterm, the second half of 2012 and 2013, precisely because of the delay, it has happened since November of the month of the vaccine shortage that I'm talking about, and that's how it is if you want additional information please contact the City Public Health Institute and other institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22534	I'm asking you to stop the replicas on this subject and we're back from the topic. The amendment has Bojan Djuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22535	I need a few more tens of seconds. This is too important a question. So, in the debate on amendments to the Ministry Act, we are discussing, now listen to who is when and whose break was the Director of the Republic Health Insurance Fund. Well, Dr. Rakonjac, I can understand your objections to the past period, but I remind you that now the fund manager, if you're not hiding the fund, the Republic Health Insurance Fund is your party's official. I think it was abnormal for the fund manager to be a member, let's say, DS, at a time when they were in power, just like I think today it's abnormal for someone who's in the political party's power to be a fund manager who's not a state. The Republic Health Insurance Fund is not a state fund, its owners are the ones who pay for insurance, and they need to have an impact on who's going to be the director, and they're going to give it a vaccine, because I didn't see you... (Chairman: Mr. Djuric, please come back to the topic. ) No, it's a very important question, otherwise I think it's a serious problem of vaccination in Serbia that anti-civilisation behavior two or three years ago, when everyone here feared the public and talked about how unnecessary vaccines are and how this is just the basis to earn money. It may have been the basis for earning money, but it has hit 50 or 60 years of hard fighting for Serbia's modernisation, to accept vaccination and eradicate various diseases, and this has been used by opposition parties at the time, among other things, the SNS, and today they listen to or talk tracts on one side and on the other, whose director is guilty? I don't want there to be a fund manager who says - I called the president of my party and then we decided to change the rules of the Republic Fund. I think that's what the Trust Management Board is supposed to do where some normal people are representatives of insurance, I don't care if it's DS or SNS, I don't want it to be LDP either, I don't think it's scary.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22536	Vesna Rakonjac, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22537	All I'm saying is, we don't have to abuse kids like this. Vaccination of children in this way is a classic abuse and I told you what happened in 2012 from March to May of the month with the purchase of vaccines. Why don't you inform yourself where I've sent you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22538	Thank you. Neven Florist, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22539	I thank the President-in-Office, although you have tried several times to return the honourable fellow Members on the subject, they have not responded. Article 6 Rules of Procedure, our entire debate today on amendments looks like a waltz. We're going to discuss two amendments, and then we're going back to some back-to-back topic. Is it oak, is it who the criminal is, is it who offered vaccines, who denied vaccines or something else, I am really asking you as the chairman, please and distinguished colleagues, both from the opposition and from the position to return to the topic, to discuss the structure of the future government of the Republic of Serbia, because this is our topic today. The law on ministries, amendments to the law, the draft of the law, no bickering between the position and the opposition, no oaks, no vaccines, no criminalisation and citizens who see this in something called the Prime Time, want to hear answers and constructive proposals. I wouldn't be longer, thank you for your word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22540	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22541	Only the breach of the Rules of Procedure is in this particular case, the Rules of Procedure has what they write and what they don't write, what I keep saying. He defends the Constitution from the first member and the Law on the National Assembly, common sense and knowledge of something that is not subject to it, so he does not have to regulate it. Just a well-intentioned instruction, I have to defend the waltz, the waltz is playing differently, tango different, mading differently, everything's fine. . Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22542	Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Radmila Gerov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22543	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to remind you, the school year begins in three days. Serbia has no minister of education, Serbia has no minister of agriculture, and farmers are on the road and there will most likely be blockades due to the ransom price of wheat. Not to mention the economy, not to mention the financial situation, Serbia still has no economy or finance minister. This reconstruction takes too long, and at least this debate here in parliament is a problem, the problem is that in the few months being said to be a reconstruction, and perhaps an even bigger problem is that more than a year there is a coalition in power that obviously has no capacity to exercise that power. We may be able to find something of quality, but we certainly can't find any responsibilities. Finally, as a result of this murmuring and the agony of several months, this draft law on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act comes to the Assembly, and we need as MPs to be grateful that this law has even arrived in the procedure and then we get one explanation of two sentences. In those two sentences you have concentrated all the arguments why it is necessary to amend this ministry law and in what sense do you think to change it. You're talking about new ideas, new methods, you're talking about some concentration and specialization of businesses in different areas, and then you do something quite the opposite when you're actually staying on that basic text of the bill, not adopting an amendment of the LDP MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22544	Thank you. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22545	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 2. The bill speaks of the responsibilities of the new Ministry of Finance. We asked this amendment to delete the words "harmonisation and co-ordination of financial management" from the finance ministry's jurisdiction. Why are we looking for this? Because we don't think this part-time ministry should be tied to the Ministry of Finance alone. On one particular case, I'll show you through this law why we're looking for it. Article 4 of this bill says that the Ministry of Economy, among other things, is engaged in business and financial restructuring of companies and other forms of business. What does that mean when we translate into our own language? The economy ministry is due by 30 June 2014 to address the problem of 170 enterprises in restructuring. It takes some funding, and the finance ministry needs to determine which funds they are and, most importantly, manage them. What if two ministers don't have the same opinion on how to solve these enterprises in restructuring? On the other hand, we've been talking for three days about how this government reconstruction takes six months. Mr. Selakovic, what I'm more interested in is when will the process of reshuffle the government end? It will not end with the government's election if we respect and listen to what the president of your party said, because he said that the government's reconstruction meant changing state secretaries, assistants and directors of public enterprises. I'm interested in how do you think you can change the directors of public enterprises without violating the Law on Public Enterprises? Is it possible that you who are Serbian state officials should respect the laws, know the laws, you can say that you want to change the directors of public enterprises if they do not meet some criteria? Speaking of criteria, what I'm also interested in, Mr Selakovic, is what criteria were your party, SNS, to say that it was unhappy with working with three ministers? We know of Mr. Vukic as to the reasons, but what are the reasons that Minister Knezevic will no longer be minister, that we are changing the Minister of Sports and changing the Minister of Culture? We heard that Minister Knezevic is not changing because of an affair related to aflatoxin. Then what are the reasons? What are these criteria? Are these criteria known or unknown? If they are known, are these criteria applied both to the secretary of state and to the assistant ministers? At the very end, Mr. Minister, tonight you were talking about the structure of the government, how it was in history, how it should be and in some ways I could agree with you only if in the next few days you would do one thing, and this matter concerns the future Minister for Regional Development and Local Self-Government. You have a minister with no portfolio who is director of the Office for Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas. What is the difference between the minister and the office and the Ministry of Regional Development? If you've already talked about rationalisation, isn't it normal for one who deals with undeveloped areas to be the new Regional Development Minister, or maybe we won't have that office for regional development of underdeveloped areas, or what's it called? What's also strange is that you say that rationalisation means "reduction" of the number of ministries from 17 to 18. That's a little strange for the logic of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22546	Thank you. The word is from MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22547	I have a very short question for Minister Selakovic. What exactly do you and your government mean by the affairs of the state administration at the harmonisation and coordination of financial management in the public sector? What do you mean by the public sector? Is the public sector the PIO Fund? Is the public sector "The Railway"? How will the Ministry of Finance now or how will the Ministry of Finance coordinate and harmonize financial management in these parts of the public sector or in those parts of the state in the future? How will the finance minister conduct this harmonisation, and then come to the government where the government decides to give the debt-free loan to the PIO Fund, as it did today with Simpa? With all the argument that Mr. Hajdarevic was talking about, which is why we thought among other things that finance and economy resolutions should remain united, then perhaps this formulation would make a little more sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22548	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Articles 157, paragraphs 6 and 161 of Article 1(1). Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by the MP Vesna Kovac. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter Bojana Bozanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22549	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, at Ivica Dacic's exposé on July 27th, of all that it says in this book, is only true that Serbia remains a country of failed expectations and missed opportunities. Everything else here is just a list of good wishes and none of it's done. As far as the amendment itself is concerned, Article 4 states that the finance ministry, among other things, is engaged in implementing EU-funded programmes. In the middle of this month, we have lost exactly 10m euros in agriculture from EU funds that should be used to increase agriculture competitiveness and rural development because we, as we say here, do not have a system for managing European money. People say we didn't use those funds exactly because we couldn't hire people at the Payment Agency in Capco. On the other hand, at the end of July, the Ministry of Finance and Business employs 19 people who were supposed to deal with these very things that the Ministry of Finance and Businesses dealt with in the area of attracting funds from the EU, i.e. people who were supposed to do very professional work, to know the regulations governing the management of IPA funds, to know the rules relating to public procurement under EU procedures and to know the English language. Please, we conduct projects like this, for example, in the Municipality of Chatin. The interns are doing it, so I don't know how many of those 19 people we couldn't define for anything else or at least take these 10 million dinars. Also, I'm in doubt, if this is a reconstruction, so there's no need for exposés and we won't have to listen because everything goes on as it has been under the programs of the current ministers and ministries, and if it changes, then I don't know why we haven't tied the change of these ministers and the change of the ministries themselves, the separation or the merger, etc. with a budget decision? The budgetary decision is the most important decision in one country to manage and the right plan, for example. for 2014, so I really don't understand why it's not connected either. Now we have some vacuum between a budget decision or some future rebalancing and any plans at all. If we've been changing ministers, and they won't be doing anything new by then and they won't have any new plans and strategies, then I don't understand why we've been doing all this. Also, what we heard in the exposé when Prime Minister Ivica Dacic was here on July 27th last year is that the strategic priorities of agriculture, food industry, energy, infrastructure. That we're going to launch major investment projects in agriculture, energy, infrastructure. To work on re-industralization, to increase investment consumption, and to reduce irrational consumption. That we will establish an agrarian policy that will be predictable on a long-term basis, if farmers could plan and increase their production in the long term. And he says, most interestingly, that we quickly use the energy of people, the sun, water and wind and high production of food and energy, to make Serbia the garden of Europe. Are we going to do this by humming in four years to sell the country under the same conditions as we sell the country to foreigners under the same conditions as it is currently sold to people in Serbia, or to our residents. I think that's really bad. We have about 100,000 people on the other side who don't take the job and work. We have a final labour poll of 2.2 million employees, and 3.2 million inactive from which 2.1 million who do not want to work for different reasons. We also have a variety of regulations and administrative procedures each year of 107m euros in the area of trade and thus 19 000 potential working targets in trade. At this point, in this year's time, what this government has done, on the way from the manufacturer to the buyer, the product collects at least six times, which is bad for both the manufacturer and the purchaser. One more thing, who are we doing all this to? Whom, when Serbia is the first country in the Balkans at the mortality rate, the last one at the birth rate and for years it has been facing negative natural growth. Do you know that every marriage in Serbia comes at a loss of 0.88% of children, as it says, and we boast with incentives, and the incentive says that the mother for the first four children achieves a certain incentive. We have a problem with one child, about two and not to talk, without four of us talking about it. How many families have four children. We brag about some things we shouldn't brag about. Only the country that invests in education, which invests in work and jobs can be successful and there can be successful people, and those who invest in some fashion trends, which invest in cars, in expensive cigarettes, cafes, etc., there are no offspring there and we do all this for free. This is just spilling from hollow to empty.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22550	MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22551	I'm sorry, maybe these legal-technical reasons that got him rejected, maybe it could've been fixed, so it might have come out, that your vice president's amendment might have been accepted, but there might be a good chance. What made me the most likely to report on this amendment is my colleague's discussion, who said this was a country of unfavourable expectations. I just can't believe it. I was on Zlatibor a few days ago, where my colleague's coming from, dear, and there I saw a hyper-production of buildings. It's just being played every step of the way. It's all full. They're full of capacity. It's just amazing that we're talking about this being a country of failed expectations. The land of failed expectations is those in which nothing is done, in which no one builds anything. So, we just need to make some balance here. And what's the balance? If you are benefiting from building construction facilities, then you must also focus your resources and revenues on investing infrastructure and improving the quality of the tourist resort. I just don't think it stands to talk and to criticize without any arguments. The arguments are on the side of the potion. We can go together to see that it is investing everywhere, that simply Serbia is going one good way and that you shouldn't just criticise something because you're an opposition. We from the SPS parliamentary group have been listening very carefully all day. I have to say, unfortunately, since we've been called and texted by the citizens, they're simply surprised and they can't believe that we've been having some pointless debates all day, and it just doesn't go in favor of what we're trying to do. That's supposed to get us into all of this. The opposition, we are to blame for accepting pointless debates. I think you should ignore that because stories to tell don't lead to anything. I thank you. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22552	Thank you. Bojana Bozanic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22553	Thank you. Respected if you noticed today, like all Serbian citizens, that the DSS was the least involved today in this pointless debate, as you called it. What I said at the beginning, that Serbia has failed expectations is in the Ivica Dacic exposé, which you all have if you have saved, and you can probably find on the internet. What happened in Chattino municipality, even though I didn't want to mention it today, but that's what I do when you just challenge me. He's doing everything according to the existing planning documentation, which exists, which we adopted a long time ago. That's how we work. And everything we do is very serious and we're doing it by law, and I have to say that we fought hard and we've tried to do everything we've achieved, the resources that flow into the municipal budget, we've managed to realize it ourselves, because we've been the opposition community in the previous period and now, and we're trying very seriously to preserve it, keep it, to deal with the sustainable development of tourism. We have over 20,000 beds. I invite you and everyone else to come and see how we do it. As we deal with tourism first and foremost with other branches, how we fill the budget ourselves, without anyone's help, only by deviating all those who are opposition. We're ready to show you all this, make you scream. Of course, because we are very selfless and to teach you how we do it, and that this is how all Serbia prospers. So, only if they prosper small municipalities, they fight for themselves, and that's how the whole of Serbia will prosper. He can't work for all of Serbia. We can only do it together.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22554	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22555	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I love those very inspired speeches, full of enthusiasm and self-requirement and self-gratitude. Let me ask you a question. And what does it collect six times from the manufacturer to the consumer? Come on, find me that. Go find me you. Is it perhaps from Chajeta's cut-off oak that was later made to be a table, carved by hand. You're not ashamed to make it up. You were so successful when you were in the Republic. So where are your messengers now? Where did you get so many MPs? It was easy when it was privatized. It's been living off the property that people have acquired for generations. And then you say we were successful. Where did the money end up? Where's that infrastructure? What was done with that money? Nothing. You bought votes in the election, so that wasn't enough, so you lost the election. Yes, it is. I'm talking to you. Let's talk about the famous 2007 budget. The famous 2007 budget reportedly in the surplus, and the surplus was shown by the state being more in debt than she thought it would spend. Those are the results. No more simple stories, so come out with specific data. I wonder what the life of Serbian citizens depends on six times as much as a producer to a consumer?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22556	Thank you. Free Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22557	Madam Chairman, on what basis did you give your predecessor your word?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22558	Replica, as head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22559	The replica, for what?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22560	At Mrs. Bozanic's exposure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22561	On what attitudes and on what statements? Say what exactly? She has not spoken to anything, nor to the SNS, nor to any messenger, or to any individual, or to anything. You had no reason to give your word. I'm really asking you to run this assembly properly. Second, when he took an unauthorized word and misused your indiscretion, he addressed a former colleague with a very threatening tone, saying: “How are you not ashamed? “ It’s as if the Cheetah municipality is her private business, so now she should be ashamed of him for giving an illusion that he has no idea about. I really resent you for missing this moment, because this was a very bold address to an MP who spoke extremely normally and deserved rebuke on your part, and above all you should not have given him your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22562	According to the Rules of Procedure, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22563	First of all, I don't count what anyone thinks, I count what anyone says. (President: First say which member of the Rules of Procedure I have injured. ) Article 107. Rules of Procedure. I wasn't talking about Cheetah, but I was talking about the truths that were made about this government and the reconstruction that is being implemented with this government. That's what I was talking about. I didn't threaten anyone, I just asked how there's no shame in saying things that aren't true and true, and so trendy and obvious? We can discuss that someone is wrong in some number, but so trendy to go on that nothing wrong with what this government has done, and you know that a lot of things have changed, and for the better, and that the economic situation in Serbia is not a fashion hit that changes over the season. If you don't have to praise us, and we don't expect you to praise us, for what was good, then we certainly won't let you down if you talk about what wasn't true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22564	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22565	Madam Chairman, I have to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108, but also Paragraph 107. So he was very disturbing to me by threatening the tone of his colleague Veroljub Arsic towards his colleague Bozanic, and there you were supposed to act as a lady to protect our colleague. You know, it's not appropriate to address any fellow Members of Parliament in this way, especially the MP benches of the opposition. I note the word “collars. ” You know, those manners that we bring down the Parliament to a bar fight and reality shows aren't good. It is not good that you have this threatening attitude and threatening tone, somewhat arrogant, because really, even now you can listen to what I say – it will benefit you in future work and if you are not the head of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22566	Thank you. Rules of Procedure, Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22567	Article 27. Vice President, I agree, of course, that Mr Arsic's tone was unacceptable. Then, everything that happens when anyone notices that Mr. Arsic yelled at our colleague here, in the British Parliament there's this gentlemen's club, we don't have that tradition, but that kind of smile, the mockery, that sneaky relationship is beneath each level. Although it is not explicitly regulated by the Rules of Procedure, we could still agree that no one behaves in this House. My second remark is that I did not understand, nor did Mr Samardzic, on what basis did Mr. Arsic get his word? I don't know who's authorized? Who has the right to speak on behalf of the SNS on this agenda? It gets mixed up all day. Who's the head of the parliamentary group? That's where whoever and how they will and when they will. Does the SNS have an authorised representative who is not the head of the parliamentary group? Who's the head of the parliamentary group? Who's the deputy? At this point, I'm interested in it, so that we can estimate whether the word is given in accordance with the Rules of Procedure or not? Other political parties either have heads of parliament in the O.R. or have duly registered authorised representatives on the chair table. I'd like to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22568	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I'll just try to explain what Mr. Djuric was talking about. I gave my word to Mr. Arsic after Mrs. Bozanic spoke about the government, some of the government's moves, where Mr. Arsic felt called, as he was the head or deputy head of the parliamentary group, which is the largest in the assembly. I assume by that basis he has responsibility for the government and that he's trying to defend SNS's views. As far as this other question is concerned, how you get the word and who's the boss, one's the boss, I guess, the other's the deputy boss, and Mr. Cvian is the authorized representative. They're right. So, on that basis, they got the word. Did anyone else report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Florist, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22569	I appreciate the words. Article 27 and Article 106. With all due respect to my distinguished colleague, Bojana Bozanić, and in a way that I can address her as a gentleman, without any pretentiousness, I believe that she did not stick to the subject and that again this pause that we made, as in waltz, in the discussion of the amendments was created because we had a simple presentation of the tourist organization Cajetina. With all due respect and respect for the right of everyone to praise their end, its advantages, etc., the subject is our amendments. And then, on the matter of the distinguished colleague Bojana Bozanic being exposed, fellow MPs were caught, and then again, I repeat, as in the waltz, we made an item to discuss the two amendments...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22570	I ask you not to use the word "caught" by the people's messengers. Please help me finish this session today. Here you go, Mr. Djuric, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22571	I'm sorry, but I insist. They're the government. There's still more of them. They speak mostly in the congregation all day long. Who's the head of the parliamentary group? They cannot speak at the same time as the head of the parliamentary group and deputy parliamentary group and the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, if all three or three or three are in the hall at the same time. I didn't understand. You laughed. I assume you're in trouble. Does the chairman currently have official information on who is head of the SNS parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22572	Here, we'll give Mr. Babic a word to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22573	I counter - and where is your head of the parliamentary group? Here in the hall and in this assembly of the National Assembly, there are 65 heads of parliament and 65 deputy heads of parliament. They're all people who don't care about functions. We weren't born in chairs. We're not even staying here. Therefore, what we do is important, what are the results and what are the effects for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia. Don't worry about the bosses, about the functions, about anything. Worried about where your head of Parliament is at a permanent working relationship in the Serbian Parliament, and the measurement was in the House of National Assembly for seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22574	The word has been made by MP Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22575	Now I'm re-advertising a violation of article 107. The Rules of Procedure, because now a violation of article 107 has been made. We really must take care of the dignity of the National Assembly. Then I'll advertise all the members of the Rules of Procedure because they're hurt, because you can't have 65 heads of Parliament. You can do this at the session of the SNS General Board, at the Central Country Administration session, at the Cossack Assembly, but in the Serbian Parliament, which has established its rules of conduct, we ask you not because we are bored in these small hours. Today, four SNS MPs were replicating me. Come on, tell me on what grounds. It's a little bit. It took all 65 to replicate, but you can't kill all 65 of the language of arguments and facts. Let's not speak in the language of accumulated strength, pride and primitiveism. Let's talk about the language of arguments and the fact that we respect the procedure, that we know who the head of the parliamentary group is, let's see who's self-critic enough, so he hasn't reconstructed himself, and who's criticized himself enough and revised his views, so he's gone too far. It's important because of the parliamentary procedure. It's only important because of the current not only of these sessions, and some of the next sessions. Here are some rules set out in this Rules of Procedure. We want to know who's replicating us. He said Ivica Dacic that the government is a buffalo, but don't make it a politopic parliamentary group. That's not possible under the Rules of Procedure. And your desire to be all equal and equal, to have an atom, a dotamaman and other goats, leave it for the Cossack congregations, the Ataman. Here, give us the rules of procedure that apply to both you and us. Don't worry about where the heads of the opposition parliamentary groups are. It's not up to you to worry. Let the voters get to the bottom of it. In the end, the air on Goch seems to be very rare.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22576	Dear People's MPs, we'll take a break of 10 minutes. Thank you. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is by MP Predrag Markovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22578	Dear Chairman, thank you all for your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, you understand what just happened in the heat of the discussion. I hope I don't have to quote all the members who clearly define, because the MPs, from the discussion, were aware that when an authorised representative is present, he can't speak at the same time and the head of the parliamentary group. It's all right. I don't think anyone wanted to say that. On the other hand, we heard, so I suppose we should ask -- is it possible that one party is taking an add-on to 65 heads of parliament, since it is known that the heads of the parliamentary groups have an addition? I'm sure that's not what's going on. They're not just giving it to you, are they? Financially. So, since this is certainly not happening, and there is no need to question that, more importantly, I think that today, the part that is the focus of the political struggle, to move forward, to make a contribution to bringing the discussion to a topic and end. Let me immediately suggest and let you know, personally, as an authorised representative of the URS, I will not discuss the amendments, there are 12 more on the agenda, not one individual. I'd like the rest of you to hold on. Because if you allow me only this metaphor, Mr. Minister, it's not a big deal to create a political debate that has affected the introduction of the railway into Serbia, to hear everything you've quoted correctly. You know, it's just a background, because what's about that railway is not a discussion of MPs, but of the problems and commissions of Bartua and that three finance ministers and Laza Pacuj and Cedomir Mijatovic fell. (President: Time. I'm just finishing up. If we don't get into that kind of discussion, we'll have a session for her the day after tomorrow. Now let me tell you that sometimes it doesn't have to be that background, so in Britain you'll have the same debate 100 years earlier. There was no commission in the debate, but it was the opinion of the Royal Academy that if the train was going at an abnormal speed of 25 kilometers an hour, the organs would stick to the spine of the people driving. So it's not a Serb assembly of bad metaphors, it happens in all congregations, but let's do something else, what Serbs can learn from the English, to learn that we can also rationally bring one discussion to an end. Thank you, everyone who'll help with that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22579	Thank you. Do any of the other applicants want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22580	I really just wanted a short one, article 106. If you can be the chairman or, with all due respect to your colleagues, please explain to us what is the addition to the heads of the parliamentary groups. So maybe we have some money, we don't know we have any. If there are, tell us where they are, and we'll give them to charity. It may have been in your time, dear Mr. Markovic, but there's no such thing now that I know. There's a colleague named Babic, so let him say it. Someone might get the impression that we here have some extra money that we make, which is incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22581	Thank you. You will allow me to give the word to Mr Markovic, after you have addressed him directly, to respond to what he meant.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22582	I'm sorry, I don't want to compare different times, if I'm wrong, but I said, and if I haven't been wrong, for every kind of doubt, certainly Mr. Babic said, it certainly doesn't exist, and he didn't mean something like that. So everything's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22583	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22584	This will be my last report to the Rules of Procedure. Article 104. I'm sorry, Vice President, for bringing you into a very unpleasant situation, and I understand that you couldn't answer my questions. Since I am an authorised representative of the LDP at this point in the agenda, we will no longer participate in this kind of debate, happy that I do not have to and do not always have the obligation to defend anyone at all costs, although I do not think that Mr Jovanovic is in any way wrong. I'm sorry if some others have this obligation to keep jumping and defending their presidents. Each of our parties has the right to regulate their internal relations in the way they want to and I will not interfere. Mr. Babic came to me in the break, estimated that we couldn't deal with him and that obviously bothers us. I'm not going to ask for an interpretation of the Rules of Procedure any further. I admit that I cannot deal with Mr Babic, that I do not want to deal with Mr Babic and LDP will allow this debate to normally end. Thank you and the minister who in the break gave me the answer to the question I asked, so there will be no need to further confiscate this parliament's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22585	Thank you. Zoran Babic, come in. Change the MP's unit, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22586	Because of the issues asked by Mr Markovic and Mr Stefanovic, work and work relations, the levels of profit often presented in public are very different from what we really earn and it has nothing to do with power or opposition. As in every company and company, there are different levels. There are certain additions to the basic salary received by MPs who are the chairman of the Assembly Committees or vice-presidents of the Assembly Committees or by the heads of Parliament or by the deputy heads of Parliament. These are really minimal amounts that, you won't hold me by my word, but I don't think they cross some 2,000 dinars in that amount, but they exist by coefficient, and they only refer to MPs who are in a permanent working relationship in the National Assembly, and have certain functions in the form of presidents, deputy presidents of assembly committees or parliamentary groups. It is foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, it is foreseen by law, it is something that is respected and it is something that exists and in that sense Mr Markovic is right, but it refers to absolutely all the MPs. I don't want to raise all this to some level, because I'm afraid the public won't understand us, because it's perception in both the public of the National Assembly and the people who sit here, regardless of whether in power or opposition, that we eat cheap and quality food, that we drive in angry cars and we receive thousands and thousands of euros, and we know very well that something like that isn't true. For the sake of the public and for the sake of truth, Mr. Markovic is right, even though these pay gaps are really measured in several hundred dinars, up to 2,000 dinars, don't hold my word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22587	Bojana Bozanić, you wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22588	I just wanted to replicate one of the colleagues who mentioned me. I'm sorry he's not here right now. I don't know why he left. I simply thought that in this high house all of us MPs equally have the right to express our opinion, whether it is our party's position or, often, our personal position. I don't think we should do it with fear, fearing that if we were in opposition, from MPs from the ruling coalition to verbally attack us, and I had the impression, to be honest, to be able to have a physical argument, so was the MP who replicated me and I just don't think we should feel the fear of taking our stand here in this high house and I believe that all my colleagues agree with it. I don't think that such behaviour really deserves to be a feature and a drawing of one of the representatives of the largest parliamentary group in this House, and I don't think that's really correct. I'm talking about future, later work and all our exposure, us from the opposition. I hope we don't have similar verbal attacks. As this fellow carried here a picture with a text about some planes, etc., transmitted, as a courier, from one to the other parliamentary group, so I could show him where I read it, where I found a copy of which he said that on the way from the manufacturer to the buyer the product was collected at least six times and that it was for kilos of pigmeat living scales, to refer to milk, to refer to wheat, to refer to cereals, etc. (President: Time. If this colleague were here right now in this high house, I could give him this and tell him what date and what newspaper I pulled it out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22589	Thank you. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22590	Very briefly, there's no point in talking about this amendment anymore. An explanation of why the amendment was rejected was given by the government, as Mr Selakovic said in part, in another part of the debate. For us, it is particularly problematic that there will still be a diaspora office and these responsibilities within the ministry, they do not seem to me to be a convincing explanation that it is thus regulated by the Diaspora Act, so there must be harmonisation, because then no change simply is possible, there needs to be parallel changes of different laws. The second grade is political. We think that Mr. Mrkic cannot meet at this point nor the minimum of his obligations, the duties he has as foreign minister, that it is a disastrously poorly arranged ministry, that human resources are both in diplomacy and in other parts of the ministry are frantic, that more and more retired diplomats, that they are diplomats with a very large burden, their professional past to use, let's say, diplomatic formulation, that there are many problems within the diplomatic academy, that the foreign ministry's policy in many ways leads one of the advisers of the President of the Republic, that there is at the same time overlap practically between two heads, or two parts of the executive government, and that they are not satisfied either in the ruling coalition or that party, which I say to the longer Foreign Ministry. If the government isn't ready to accept it right now, fine. Let Ivan Mrkic and his administration organise this part of the job. I'm sure the results will be catastrophic, as they are catastrophic in all other segments. From the name and past of the ambassadors to Ukraine, to a whole series of other solutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22591	Thank you. Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22592	Thank you to the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, which is what this is really about, I've said several times, so I'll do it again. So we have the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region that brought the previous ruling majority. This law puts a circle of specific tasks in the ministry's exclusive jurisdiction. So, the authorities of the state administration that are in the ranks of the Ministry. We have a diaspora office. The diaspora office does all other tasks under the law, but there are jobs only the Ministry can do. A moment ago, when Mr. Halimi spoke, we talked about human and minority rights, so the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, the state administration and local self-government were abolished. The Office for Human and Minority Rights has been formed. But let's say the National Minority Council's register can't run an office, but under the law, it can only be run by the Ministry. It is run by the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, as is run by the Register of Churches and Religious Communities, but this does not mean that we deal with the affairs of these offices, nor that there is a conflict between the existence of these responsibilities within the Ministry and the responsibilities that are in the office, which means that here is only being added to the scope of jurisdiction. As far as I'm concerned, if I'm not mistaken, although there's a possibility that I'm going to make a mistake, I think it concerns certain responsibilities related to the implementation of, say, the diaspora Assembly election. So, that sort of thing, but it's not like now the Foreign Ministry is going to be founded some kind of organisational unit that's going to be dealing exclusively with diaspora. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22593	Thank you. Bojan Đuric, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22594	You gave me a technical explanation. I'm sorry, but it doesn't mean much to me that the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region have passed the ruling coalition. We didn't agree even then with that law, you've had here for 13 months now to change that law, if you think so. I think the problem with these congregations, the diaspora is much bigger than who's in charge of them, the Diaspora Office, I don't know Rastko Jankovic, or some sector, or part of the existing sector, I don't think it'll be new jobs in the Foreign Ministry either. I think that this whole concept of organization of our relations with the diaspora is completely wrong and needs to be changed, and that's a very important thing for this country. Friends from the Ministry of Finance may be more likely to tell you about the amount of annual transfers coming from abroad and how important this is, not for the development of this country. It's important for survival probably hundreds of thousands, if not more than a million people in this country, who actually have a second or first salary. The man who runs that ministry, I'm telling you again, who broadcasts that energy while he's working, who's trying not to show up in the frame of television, can't be someone who's going to be any way to improve relations in that sector, when I know who from the Office of the President of the Republic has a significant impact on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I'm even more concerned about what our relations with the diaspora will be. What will be the diaspora and Serbs congregations in the region, for example? That's why I'm afraid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22595	Thank you. National MP Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22596	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Selakovic, you have just said something that actually says how right the Democratic Party of Serbia has been since the very beginning, when it asked that there is a Ministry of Diaspora, as it has been asked that there is a Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, Ministry of Faith, etc. If there are only those responsibilities that the Ministry can perform, which is why it was necessary for the Ministry of Diaspora to now be reduced to the level of the Office and to actually show that for this authority or the level of the Office now, it is not really the level when it comes to diaspora and whose jurisdiction is now being taken over by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You know, our people aren't outside the queen party, so that it's done by the Foreign Ministry that it's not consular business. Our people certainly represent in the diaspora one of the most important elements of Serbian state and national interest. It is these Serbian state and national interests, on the other hand, that the authorities of the state administration are there to earn these interests, rather than the other way around. For years, the state has been expecting help from the diaspora, expecting help from young people and experts from the world, and what Serbia itself does for its diaspora. Obviously, by this example nothing, she ignores the importance of diaspora and Serbs in the region. It is true that, in order to be efficient and to save, a grouping of certain tasks should be carried out within the authority of the state administration. But that principle cannot be established at the heart of the fundamental interests of this country. If only a year ago you abolished the Ministry of Diaspora and set up an office, and then you set up a regulation with the task of performing professional tasks for the needs of the Government and the competent ministries relating to the monitoring of the position of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is why it was necessary to abolish, that is to say, one part of the jurisdiction to transfer to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself, since we know that according to the Law on State Administration, the authorities of the state administration were not only ministries, so there was no need for such a thing, or if they were to remain only a ministry. But obviously nothing is done by accident, even when it comes to this bill. Because if this fate has hit the Diaspora Office, the question is, what fate will happen to the Office for Kosovo and Metohija and ask the question, that it will not be possible for the Office to exercise certain powers, now that the Office for Kosovo is able to transfer nicely to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because only the Ministry can perform certain tasks and declare the Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija as diaspora well after 3 November. Unfortunately, another similarity when it comes to diaspora and Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija is seen also in the way of funding provided for in the Brussels Agreement, which is reflected in the Diaspora Act where Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija will now be financed by the state of Serbia through projects as are now financed by Serbs in the diaspora. So, there won't be any difference between financing the Serbian community in Germany and funding for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, because as of November 3rd, you've been killing Serbian state institutions in Kosovo and Metohija and simply, according to the Brussels Agreement, the state of Serbia has no right to directly fund its institutions. Those who have received salaries, who have worked in the state administration, in other institutions of the Serbian state in Kosovo and Metohija, health care and education, will now have to apply to their country for a specific project and if the state of Serbia estimates that the project is not in the interest of the Serbian state, it does not have to be financed. It is in this new draft law on the financing of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, which is similar to the Diaspora Act. Mr. Minister, I don't think anything good brings us this bill, because we've been discussing oaks here all day, boulevards, moments, wages, slavery, and the state of Serbia is getting smaller and smaller every day. We are abolishing the state of Serbia, the current government, and the economic and social situation in the country has never been worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22597	Minister Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22598	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again, when some jurisdiction has been established by law and by the same law, it has been said that it can be implemented, or used only by the authorities of the state administration that carries the prefix of the ministry, then it is quite clear that no other unit, the organisational unit of the state administration, can carry it. If it is in the Diaspora Act in the region, it is said that certain tasks are done exclusively by the ministry, then they cannot be carried out by the office, by the directorate, by the administration, by the ministry alone. Just because you don't have a ministry called the Diaspora Ministry doesn't mean there's no relationship like one of your predecessors said, we can see by that, and I don't think there's a good policy going on here. I think he has to keep one complete change in the concept of policymaking. When we talked about the rationality of the functioning of the state administration, each body of the state administration has a certain number of acts of which the old or whose application is carried out in action. I mentioned two days ago that we are doing a serious analysis of the functionality of the Serbian state. You'll be surprised to see that there are some high-ranking state bodies that apply a single-digit number of regulations. There used to be such ministries, and then in one ministry you have quite a number of people, and then when you bury a little bit more, let's see what's the responsibility of that ministry, you see that jurisdiction is very narrow, sometimes it can be performed by an organisational unit that's not even the sector, but again we're going back to that story of functionality and it's much more important how something is done. So it's something that's much more important and I would never agree with what you said. I am one of those who sincerely thinks, and in reality I have found that the Office for Kosovo and Metohija is doing much better, much more effectively than the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija used to do. You can see that in the field. I was able to be in northern Kosovo and Metohija several times, I was south of Kosovo and Metohija, there is no place in Kosovo and Metohija where a Serb population who has not been visited by the director of the office, talked to people and gave maximum access to the current state's options for solving some of their problems. Don't go into the details of what, how and where, but the comparison is absolutely insurmountable to the diaspora office with that office and someone almost equating the position. Secondly, you said something that isn't true and it really isn't true, and it doesn't stand, you mentioned health care and education and funding through projects, but that's not true. It's not true, we can talk about what someone's idea is now, what someone placed, and as far as we know, it wasn't even talked about. Then don't fool people from once, we don't know, November 3rd will run out of wages, pensions, no social benefits. That's not true. Come on, anyway, the topic is very complicated, very ticky and certainly doesn't contribute to this discussion here, and this is how we bring additional instability and unrest among people living in an extremely difficult state, and now we're going to tell them that from November 3rd they're going to stop getting paid and pensions and any social assistance. That's just not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22599	Petar Petkovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22600	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you just said we're not fooling citizens of Serbia, and that's why I'm going to tell you that the man sitting next to me is the best minister for Kosovo and Metohija, and you can ask that question every citizen of Serbia down in Kosovo and Metohija. Secondly, if you now have a director of the office who resigns because of the Brussels Agreement, and now returns to force that people in Kosovo and Metohija, there must be no longer any state of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija after 3 November. Don't make such comparisons, because they're not decent at all. Secondly, when it comes to how well the Office for Kosovo and Metohija is doing, it really works. We have had opportunities to see and hear that the registration lists for local elections in Kosovo, Serbia, Vojvodina, where citizens who are scheduled to vote in local elections stand the coat of arms of the false state of Kosovo. Who let that happen? I went and looked at the Law on the General Elections of the False State of Kosovo and it stands there clearly that the conditions for going out to their local elections are also filling out the registration list. During the government of Vojislav Kostunica, while Minister for Kosovo and Metohija Slobodan Samardzic, Mr. Minister, stopped Ahtisaari's plan at the UN Security Council. We here sign a Brussels agreement that abolishes the state of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. That is why the right decision by the Serbian people of the Kosovo AP Assembly and Metohija is that it will not go to the elections. That tells you how strong DSS policy is and how much support it has.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22601	Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22602	I have no doubt that you will say that someone who was a member of your party's leadership was the best official in some place and that is your legitimate right to think so. I'm talking about what people in the field are saying and it doesn't have to be someone who has a minister's office to do extremely well, or to be a ministry, in order to be extraordinary. I wish every ministry in the area of its responsibilities had dealt adequately with problems in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, we probably wouldn't have come into this situation. I again claim that something is said that is not true, as regards wages, pensions and social contributions to our people in the Kosovo and Metohija areas. The second thing, I really don't see any reason why we're talking about what the Brussels Agreement is now whether or not to support it, how to act or not, because we've talked about the past many times today, and you know that I'm dealing with legal history, and some of my opinion is that we've learned a little more and we've learned from it, we probably wouldn't be in that part of our country, in a difficult situation where we've been in previous x years. So don't use that topic first, because it's not a topic. The second is due to some political points ahead of the election that are being announced below. I don't know, especially I don't know if someone said it here, maybe while I wasn't there, there's a coat of arms or something on the license plate. So, I didn't see it, I didn't hear it. Don't talk like that now. Do you have that? Well, come on, show us all. What would I show? Because you claim, you claim it's on that list. If you say so, show me the ticket. I didn't have it in my hands but I saw it, but I say again, once again, it's not right to break our ranks when we have to break out and when we have brought the one standing opposite us to a dead end at the moment when everyone was counting on the most Serbian "no" and absolute irrationality. I think we need to be as rational as possible, to get for that people down there, as much as we can under the given circumstances.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22603	Thank you. Petar Petkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22604	Mr. Minister, you say people speak differently in the field. You went to the court of Kosovo and Metohija as Minister, dear Mr Selakovic, when Dacic and Thaci were very handsy and when things went to-ho-ho, and at the time when the DSS led Serbia and when Prof. Samardzic was Minister for Kosovo and Metohija we also had a period of barricades and sieges and persecutions and 24 March and not to list further. So, with that people, we've been through the worst. What awaits them is I fear that it will be much worse than all that has happened to our people, but thank God that this people are thinking with their heads and running a state-of-the-art policy and not going to go to those Kosovo elections that are killing the state of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22605	Thank you. Predrag Markovic, damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22606	Allow you, Mr. Minister, because you, too, are a member of the 27th and following the members to whom this applies, and it applies to you, as well as to the negotiators in this dialogue, exclusively the right of the chairman to, after being tolerated, not to allow any subject which, in any way, is not subject to the amendment or by law which is the subject of the agenda, to continue replicating and all that arises. Let me tell you, that's what I and I are asking you to do, which I didn't vote on because in the accompanying text, I had objections about who was, so it's not about the ideology here who voted for what, but about the basic decency of running this session and respecting the lady who's been sitting here for three and a half hours. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22607	Thank you. Minister Selakovic. You're giving up. Next reported. You wanted Mr. Samardzic on the amendment? In accordance with Article 104. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22608	So, I wouldn't have the grounds to report as president of the DSS Parliament Club just for one thing, maybe not intending to, but it will sound very bad to the minister's statements, and that is to say, by thinking of the DSS that political points are being raised here in the replica of counterpart Petkovic. So I have the right to do it as president because my party is damaged here, so to speak. That's not done, at least in the DSS, and that's not the case. In Kosovo and Metohija, in that case, we came down from power in 2008. So, not that we wanted to abuse to stay in power, which we could, but we came down. Simply, I want to tell you through an empirical example that the party does not collect political points in Kosovo but does things according to its plan and programme and very principledly on that thing, people do notice. As far as this issue is concerned about the similarities between the Diaspora Act and the draft Law on Financial Support for Serbs in Kosovo, it is a matter of the government, it has already gone public. The day before yesterday, "Politika" wrote a big text about it, and also, a draft law appeared on the site of that Serbian political mission. If it's a fake both, then the government had to react for a simple reason because it's a sensitive question. You say there is no such thing. There is no such thing as a government proposal, everyone knows that, but we can't act like it doesn't exist, because two information went into the ether and very detailedly, the text in "Politice" is one of the major texts on Kosovo recently written. "Politics" is not a tabloid newspaper, whatever I think of its political profile. If another prominent political figure appears on the site, then it is the government's thing to react and remove any possible misunderstanding, confusion, hunch and anxiety about it, and that's what counterpart Petkovic was talking about, nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22609	Thank you. Mr Milivojevic, there are 45 seconds left for your parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22610	Madam Chairman, for eight years I have been a member of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, is the Assembly of the City where we will discuss, especially when we talk about the government's downfall, about all policies and when we talk about the selection of the ministry, whether we should have the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija or not? Of course I have some different views when it comes to this issue, but I think it would be good if we had kept it from the Ministry of Kosovo and Metohija, above all because it proved in practice that this ministry worked well. On the other hand, we should not run away from political responsibility, from politics and life issues, and that the chairman of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, even if they call for a session of the Committee on Kosovo and Metohija, in order to create a policy on these elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22611	Thank you. MP Dejan Radenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22612	Thank you, Vice President. How much time does my parliamentary group have left? (President: 18 minutes. Thank you. Here's what I'd have to do with the discussion that preceded it. Here everyone praises what is said – his horse. I mean, figuratively speaking.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22613	Thank you, Mr. Radenkovic. The word has Slobodan Samardzic, you as authorized have another minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22614	I wanted to respond to the Rules of Procedure, by article 27, to your silence, to this insolent and unsalted joke. Not only is this unsent joke fired here, but most MPs are laughing, which is proof of one infantility because the joke is really very ground flooring, there's no funnyness in it, there's only insinuation and nothing else. It's not about who said it, because it's about his education, his decency and his culture, but at this point it's about you leading this assembly. You've really had to react that such infantile nonsense can't really be heard in this House or if they're heard that you're in the root of the thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22615	You heard for yourself that Mr. Radenkovic himself said that he said it figuratively, and we have witnessed that these days many are metaphorically and figuratively expressing themselves. So, I've given up the further discussion, so he realized that he's gone too far, I guess, alone before my warning. Does anyone want any reported injuries to the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Here you are, Mr. Petkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22616	Member of the 107th Injury of National Assembly dignity. You know, I don't care how someone's going to characterize their party chief, but what's inadmissible is that someone gets up, takes the word to speak and then starts laughing, uses such expressions that are really for this home in these late hours, when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija, when we talk about essential and key issues for the future and survival of our country, especially our people in Kosovo and Metohija, absolutely inappropriate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22617	I've already explained Mr. Radenkovic's exposure. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22618	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising a violation of article 108. I think now you should've decided to take a break at work, even if it didn't stop laughing in the O.R. It's a serious subject after all. It is late hours, it is that we are tired, some of us have been working for a long time, but at least a little while to preserve the dignity of this high house in these evenings. There's been some unintentional mistakes. I don't believe any of my colleagues had any evil intentions to offend anyone, but even when they drop their concentration, it's good to take a little break. I'm saying, this isn't appropriate for this high house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22619	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. National MP Predrag Markovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22620	Please, we've already attended this, so that a well-intentioned messenger will come forward and ask for something to make amends just because he didn't really understand anything. I accept an apology just before Mr. Stefanovic, because he simply didn't know the information he was talking about, so come forward, and now the same. The laughter, from what I've seen, was on the fact that it's being introduced, and it's no wonder that the former members of the Communist alliance first came forward, the practice that the speaker who hurts the Rules of Procedure takes away his word and people laughed because you failed to react. Let's not make some harmless little thing particularly big, especially in situations where it's said -- we're talking about Kosovo and Metohija here. We're not talking about it, and there's no greater abuse than when you're doing something where it doesn't belong. Now you don't discuss it, you have tomorrow, I'm talking to all the MPs, the time at the beginning of the session, because Thursday, to ask the question and the minister, and the Prime Minister and the Vice President, and you do, because last Thursday is in the month, and tomorrow's session from 16:00 to 19.00, to talk about it with people who can answer. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22621	According to the amendment, MP Dejan Radenkovic appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22622	I just wanted figuratively, there was no intention. When the first smile was heard, of course it turned out to be malicious, trendy. I had no intention of that. I'm sorry if someone misread it, that I wanted to insult anyone, a very dark job, especially a university professor, and that wasn't my intention. I wanted to open up some other controversy about how you shouldn't just brag, but maybe you should be self-critical. Someone needs to take some responsibility for something. If we were to make a comparison of what we should have done at one time, we're the view that it's never too late to, in these circumstances, when it's recognised that independent Kosovo, when it's only declared, what they would say, is that such elections are held in these circumstances. I just wanted to say when the UNMIK administration managed the southern province, according to Resolution 1244, there was the right for everyone to sign up, to exercise electoral rights and in these circumstances, that there were no such obstructions and any dilemmas to come out or not to go out, and that we then enrolled voters, and in the right wave we could enroll more than 500,000 voters because it was also the right that if one of the parents was born in Kosovo, the right to vote in the elections that were held down there, and these were then elections organised by temporary institutions and organised by the UN, for which some crying today and in this context I just wanted to say that I should admit that we once made a mistake. If it was a deliberate mistake, it would be a matter of time. Is it by doing so that someone would speed up the process and speed it up for Kosovo to become independent, whether or not they were your accomplices, whether it is drilling into the chest, to fight and thus continue to crash into ruin, and I can only praise this wise policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which simply realizes for the first time that we have to preserve the people in the space of Kosovo and Metohija and that the only way to fight with a pen, not a gun, is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22623	Thank you. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MPs Vesna Kovac, Vladimir Ilic and Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Articles 157, paragraphs 6 and 161 of Article 1(1). Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22624	In fact, this amendment concerns the responsibilities of the Ministry of Economy in the part that speaks about the coordination of business in relation to the integration of companies with strategic investors. As with some other issues related to our economic relations with abroad, on the one hand, and on the other hand to attract investment, I think that this way of asking such a kind of jurisdiction is completely wrong, that it implies the formulations that may be in some, here, I'm going to say, a political way could work in this government with the political, economical views of the outgoing finance and economy minister, not entering into whether they are good or bad, that they have no meaning in this new system that is supposed to be real and that actually coordination of these activities, not by entering into whether they are good or bad, have no reason to stay in the sector or in the economy ministry. Let me give you an example today. Today, the president of the Republic of Tomislav Nikolic was in China. He visited a whole series of factories. He spoke to representatives of the high-tech industry. It is as a guarantee, as a key asset for attracting strategic investors from China cited his word. I'm not sure how such a method of security or attracting investors fits into this co-ordinating function within the framework of the Ministry of Economy? We'll discuss a new candidate for the Minister of Industry. It also has some advantages and some disadvantages, but what we certainly know is that it looks very negatively at this kind of state activity or this kind of state organisation in attracting foreign investment. Who's with the president of the Republic of China today? Who did the pull-up coordination with strategic investors, say, for the channel project? Who was doing it in some other resorts? That's what they do, they work in the last government, they'll work in the new government as ministers individually. Someone's got reasonable ideas, and someone's got ideas that are connected to the canal. I still think it's better if you erased this jurisdiction. I think you'll have a lot of trouble asking this question in article 4. The law, but okay, if you don't want to, you'll face these problems yourself. At least you could have read the blogs of those you call to be ministers before you gave them jurisdiction in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22625	Thank you. On the basis of Articles 157, point 6 and 161 of Article 1(1), Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government submitted to Article 5 of the amendment. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Radmila Gerov. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22626	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is that we have taken these reasons seriously which you have stated here in the light of the bill's proposal and we have decided to transfer certain powers from the Ministry of Finance to the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, believing that it is much more natural to regulate the rights of public property, expropriation, protecting the property of the Republic of Serbia abroad, applying the agreement on matters of succession, achieving alimation requests from abroad, providing legal assistance for nationalised property being compensated by international contracts, being in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. We believe that experience so far in practice really gives us arguments that we insist that this is how an adequate grouping of businesses in certain related areas is done. The regulation of the right of public property. I remind you that this is a public property belonging to local self-government, the Autonomous province, or the Republic. And so far, management of this public property has not been at the highest possible level. You know very well how the property management managed all that property, real estate, about 5% of the immovableity was recorded by that directorate. Also, when we talk about the Agreement on Sucession Issues, we also have a very bad experience about this agreement that has started to apply since 2004, and we see that it stopped somewhere at the beginning. Therefore, it would be good if the Justice Ministry really took responsibility for all these responsibilities, if it really wants some newspapers and some modernisation, which it also calls for in the reasons of the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22627	Thank you. National MP Aleksandar Senic tabled an amendment proposing the addition of a new member of the 5a. On the basis of Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, rejected this amendment. Discarded amendments, pursuant to Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure, I can't be the subject of a debate and I can't vote on them. National MPs Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added after Article 5. The government and the Justice Committee have not accepted the amendment. Does anyone want a word? People's MP Miljenko Deretta.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22628	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, I had to remember all the time today what the agenda really was, because the thought went so far left and right, that we all forgot what we were actually talking about, and that's the fact that we, from the opposition and obviously some of the government, agreed that the government needed to be reconstructed because it didn't work out well. Something very interesting happened in this regard, and that is that the reconstruction by everything that has been heard here today has actually come down to the discussion of the division of one ministry in two, not the fact that eight or nine members of the government are changing. What changes nine members of the government is actually a reconstruction and we don't have any information about what's going to change in these ministries. We didn't even have a reason why it's being reconstructed. That's why we suggested adding this member who obliges the government to make real reorganisations by October 31st this year. In the explanation given why our proposal is rejected, it actually states that it is not accepted because the reorganisation within that and the state administration will be carried out after a comprehensive analysis, etc., etc. in some time-limited period. If it was written in an explanation, I'd know when you were planning on doing it. (President: Time is running out for your parliamentary group. Please finish. I have the right to speak two minutes after the amendment. (President: You are not the proposer of the amendment. Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic are proposing. You are not a proponent, and you can only waste the time of the parliamentary group. I've wasted my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22629	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22630	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I will leave room for the replica so Mr. Dereta can finish his thought, but, exactly what you said – nothing limited. I stepped out several times in public, announcing a reform strategy of the public administration system and said it was one of three key strategies on which to adopt for the sake of the Ministry of Justice and the state administration and I announced it for this fall. Two days ago, I was talking about an analysis of the functionality of the state and that we're going to go out with that analysis before the budget programming for next year. Now I'm going to take a chance to look back on something Mr. Hajdarevic said a little while ago, so I don't keep my final word. The question has been asked whether the Office for the Development of Not Developed Areas will be abolished. We are a paradox state for many things, so I am so convinced that we are one of the countries that has the most institutions, bodies, organisations, which deal with regional development and that regional development in work, in different parts of Serbia, has very little. Of course, there will be different proposals for the fundamental rationalisation of the entire public administration system in this analysis that precedes the strategy, i.e. the draft strategy for reforming the public administration system. Where overlaps exist, where there will be not only duplication, but triple or multiple overlaps of jurisdiction, there will have to be a response. It's absolutely undeniable. There's a technical reason here and a fundamental reason, a Member of the Sixth Law that intervened here is the transitional and final provisions of this law. I respect what you have stated in the text of the amendment, and I take that as a well-intentioned attempt to commit to something. But as I said, there will indeed be a strategy for reforming the public administration system. It has been working on since the entry into office of the Minister of Justice and the State Administration. It is extremely difficult to reach such a strategy because it is a horizontal strategy, there you must have the involvement of all the ministries that have been called, the most ministry in charge of the affairs of the state administration and the second place of the Ministry of Finance. I have to be honest and say that we haven't been in the whole previous period, maybe more than a decade we've never had any other current problems caused by the economic crisis, etc., we've never had an adequate involvement of the Ministry of Finance in this business. Now we've started to end up getting it, and if you've heard about the register of employees or jobs in the public administration, that's exactly what it takes before budgeting for the next financial year to help us get rid of excess costs. The experiences of other countries tell us that the minimum 10% decrease in the amount of public administration functioning when all these interests are listed in one place. In our system, we now have incredible illogicalities. You have a mayor or president of municipalities who have a higher salary than the president of the state, because we still don't have a law on employees in local self-government and in the province administration. A draft of the law was made at the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government. I know there's been a public debate and to be honest, I haven't been able to look at that whole law. All of this is included in this system, and it will all be covered by this analysis that is already going on for two and a half months, and it's going to be largely. I am convinced that its results and how it will contribute to the better functioning, i.e. the establishment of a basic foundation for the better functioning. There's one law that wasn't passed, and it was supposed to be passed seven years ago. By completing this system of state administration, the Law on State Administration was passed in 2006, the Law on Civil Servants was passed, the Law on the Salaries of Civil Servants was passed, and let's say we still haven't received the Act on Functions. We're also working on rounding up this whole system that I said, by passing the laws mentioned earlier, was complete. We have something else that has not been done in Serbia for 12 years, therefore, a budget international classification that also includes a functional classification of state functions. Well, it sounds kind of ghastly, but you'll understand what I'm about to say. It was brought in 2001. So in 2001, we brought our budget system into line with some international standards, but since 2001, we have never done a single business classification in the state administration. So we haven't looked anywhere at all the work that's in the jurisdiction of the state, who's in their realisation, who's doing it. We haven't done any qualitative analysis of our state administration system. It's something that precedes every serious move. I believe you'll agree, which is why I just said that the sudden changes are not good on that plan. But when we do the classification of these transactions on one hand and we have with international and European standards since 2001 harmonised that budget classification, so that's that quantitative part of the cost, what it costs, the qualitative part of the jobs that the state public administration needs to do, when we match those two things, then we're going to go back to that story that I just told you that you have a ministry that applies seven regulations. It used to be like that. Then you wonder, wait -- and how much of this ministry is going to propose new laws during the next financial year? You see, he says, he has a law to propose as planned. On the other hand, you have a ministry that should propose 41 laws as planned, but because of the non-compliance of these two classifications, you have a situation that should be proposed by one law, it gets money almost as much as it should suggest 41. It's something that's not serious in Serbia, you know, since 1991, when an organ called the Public Administration Office was abolished. There have been some attempts, you have an attempt through, say, staff management. Sometimes people at the state administration were shaking when someone from the public administration came to them to ask them how many people you hired this year, what these people are doing, on what basis you did it. It's something we need. I'm sorry I've been a little too extensive, but I want to hear what you started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22631	Mr. Deretta, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22632	Mr. Minister, thank you for the opportunity to finish the thought, as you said. You've, of course, caused other thoughts, so I'm going to adapt to the new circumstances. I'm glad you're working on a strategy. However, our strategies absolutely guarantee nothing. I'm going to give you an example of the Ministry of Education, which, among other things, employs 415 people. Four hundred and fifteen people work at the Ministry of Education on a permanent salary. The ministry, in the absence of a minister who quit and went on vacation, has done nothing about enrolment in high school. It didn't do anything about the second round of small graduation, etc. So it turns out these 415 people aren't doing what's supposed to be their job. What the Ministry of Education has is the Education Strategy by 2020. What's not after a year and a few days, that's an action plan, and that's a time frame, that's what I wanted to talk about, a time frame in which these necessary changes will be implemented, which the strategy will define. That's why we wanted this amendment to oblige the ministries to, regardless of the strategy you're doing, make their own analysis of what they're doing, how they're doing, and that the new ministers, when the old ones haven't done it, try to change their work and make it functional in the sense that these ministries need to do their entrusted jobs. You were talking about, as you said, jurisdiction benefits, which have ministries. The Ministry of Education doesn't do its duty properly and that's proven. And it is a completely wrong reason to say most often in public for the resignation of Mr. Minister. It's that little prom. The reason for his resignation must be that his ministry, regardless of 415 employees, does not work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22633	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22634	You just gave me a reason to answer and finish something I didn't mention earlier, which I think is good. The ministry, which is headed by the first ministry to introduce a new practice throughout the previous period, is that, compared with the development of the strategy, it is also working on a draft action plan. If we didn't have a situation like we did with some other strategies, you'd set an example of one. A strategy has been adopted. It's been a year waiting to come up with an action plan. I'll give myself the right to say it. I don't know that stuff. Ask God when it will be brought. I don't know. Recently, there are no two months since we discussed here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then we brought along a strategy to fight corruption, a strategy for judicial reform. Then I said that by introducing this new spirit, we were working at the same time to make action plans. The good side, the great part of that is that when you write in parallel one act and the other, you can correct what might possibly be in the future of making an action plan that would be inconclusive. You can automatically see which ones are missing. We've brought both action plans. We're already on our way to fulfilling our obligations. The same methodology, the same mode of work, is applied when developing a strategy for reforming the public administration system. It's a strategy, and compared to it, it's also an action plan. For the first time, we've introduced that you have a budget section in action plans, so every measure that needs to be taken by a certain state body has been made, and an estimate of its costs. We're automatically looking at how much it's going to cost. Honestly, I believe it's one way to apply other bodies that work on some strategic documents. But, of course, you said one key thing, the strategy in Serbia doesn't mean anything. Here we can, based on some of ours as a society of bitter and bad experiences from the past, agree and say, you're right when you say that. Unfortunately, it often depended on the political will of the individual who was in charge of implementing the action plan, or strategy. That's how it happened to us that sometimes we meet the obligations of the action plan, but that the body we've established, let's say, by passing a law, doesn't do its job properly. Why? Because we didn't put in the action plan what are the indicators that will show us, or prove whether the action plan is fulfilled or not. That's why we've introduced a new section, and that's exactly what the indicators are. Why does it matter what I say? It is precisely because on this basis we are doing tomorrow and screening the fulfillment of our obligations in the process of European integration. Serious reforms require three things. Only one of these things is a norm, it's a normative aspect, whether it's a law, whether it's a sublegal act, whether it's a strategic act before that, an action plan. What you have proposed through your amendment, not only do we respect and support it, but we are working on it and we will have before 31st and I think October 31st has been put in place, and before 31st of October we will have an overview of the entire state with the proposed measures. And this will be a great basis for completing the strategy and action plan for reforming the public administration system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22635	The word has been made by the People's MP Miljenko Deretta, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22636	I'm surprised to the extent that you're actually increasingly implementing LDP policy, because it's encouraging that one kind of thoughtful, reasonable approach to problems is something that is being introduced into practice. What I did not, among other things, implement a strategy in the field of education, because I took it as an example, is that they concluded that it was very expensive. When they recorded the good wishes, then of course they recorded everything that occurred to them. When it comes to doing so in practice, let's say the question of the number of students per class, the question of free textbooks, etc., it turns out that there is no means to do so. And the excuse for not implementing any strategy, that's my experience, as someone who's been watching it, by observing the government's work from the NGO sector, is that finance has always been the reason why some good desire isn't being implemented. I would like you to make sure that the lack of funds does not slow you down in what needs to be done. If you need it, and the NGO, as far as I know, and even the LDP, there are certainly ready solutions that you will be able to copy as another policy of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22637	Minister Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22638	I thank you, only I would not name that policy, which you called your party's politics. Normally, you have the right to do that, but for me it's like someone who's been doing this job, not for long, but rather committed, for me, it's a common sense policy for the country that we're in, because unfortunately, we've come to an extent that, if we don't all act together, the question is whether we're still going to be something that carries the epithet of the state and organized society. So, I'm glad that there are some strategic things that we can find a common language about, and I think that, as I was saying two days ago, remember, I think that this has to be our goal, that one day we have a country in which, regardless of the government's changes, you'll know what the ministries are, you know what part of their jurisdiction is, but it takes the really widest possible political consensus. I think it's an ideal in that organisational sense of the state administration system that we have to strive for. I'm glad we agreed on this and, like I said, this is what we're gonna do. If necessary, I will be very happy to come to the National Assembly, gather together the heads or members of the parliamentary groups who want to hear it and see what the results have come to, because, as I said, unfortunately, 22 years in Serbia have not been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22639	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22640	I'll just say it very briefly. Of course the consensus is needed, but today's discussion about the seemingly simple law shows that this consensus of maltene is impossible. That's why we've limited and committed only to oblige the ministries to do something within a time-limit. And to come to a consensus in this context, as it is set, I'm afraid that maltenes are impossible and that's what needs to concern us all, and above all, that's what citizens see as a problem and what they see as an inability to do something that will really fundamentally change their living conditions. Therefore, more conversations and consent, and less reckonings with the past and reckonings, i.e. not accepting what's happening today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22641	By amendment, Mr. Djuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22642	I hope I don't ruin this consensus much. Why do we insist on it so much, why have we set a deadline, Mr. Selakovic? Because we had other examples. We had the principle of consent of all parties, except for the PUPS, it seems to me that we need to professionalise public enterprises, decommissioning, right? There was no deadline in the law to elect a director. We kind of put a deadline in that law. It didn't happen in the end either. The strategy, conditionally speaking, although never written on a paper of professionalisation of public enterprises or the management of public enterprises has stalled at the first political step. When you finish your strategy and say, let's say, so many and so many people don't have to work in some parts of the state or public administration, whatever you want, or some public administration business should not be tied to the state at all, you'll come, let's say, in front of the prime minister who will tell you, I suppose he'll say that in the exposé here – we'll keep jobs, we can't fire people, or he'll tell you as Mr. Krkobic says – there are no extra people, there's no job shortages. You will hardly fit such revolutionary attitudes into any serious, professionally done modern strategy. That's why so much doubt that's really going to happen within the time limit that you're predicting. You mentioned one important question, which is a question of local level officials or local self-government and wages in the part. You mentioned some examples that you had some kind of co-operation with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Local Self-Government. You have decided, or your ruling coalition, to now replace these ministers. You and I both live in Serbia. Some others much longer than we do, and we know that now that new ministers arrive in early September, it will take weeks for them to get into work. I happen to know there's a big international grand Serbia waiting, let's say for reform... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... in that area. The salaries of civil servants, the implementation of the Law on the salaries of civil servants, of local level officials. Those laws have been laid down. They will now be re-translated and whatever strategy they are, in the end we will not solve these problems if we have such radical interruptions all the time. I'm sorry, Mr. Stefanovic, for speaking too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22643	Mr. Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22644	I thank the President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, firstly to express my satisfaction that the debate has now really received a form which unfortunately did not have in the previous hours and I can honestly say that I enjoy it because we can exchange arguments and talk about really important and existential issues for the survival of the state and the regulated system. I support what you've said. The strategy doesn't have to mean anything, but I just added something that I think is an extremely important element, and I've pointed out that repeatedly by stepping out publicly, bringing a strategy, bringing in an action plan, going into action. Once you enter the EU negotiation process, petty party and political stories are no longer an argument. I'll remind you, you haven't had a chance to see, probably, although it was, if you were watching the Justice and State Administration site and following, you could see from the draft to now the final Action Plan to implement the national anti-corruption strategy by 2018. This part you mentioned, related to the management of public enterprises, however regulated by law at this point, and the law must be respected, there is no speech, a special part of this action plan is dedicated to this particular topic and there is no dilemma. Following the timing of the action plan, the law will have to be improved by the very narrow part that speaks of the selection of public companies' governing bodies, in such a way as to remove any suspicion of corrupt activity in these frameworks and allow for full professionalisation of the functioning of public enterprises. Now, we can say – yes, but then there will be some political party that will say – we didn't agree, we said – I get there, you get there, I get so much, you get so much. There's no such thing in the negotiation process with Brussels. You have a clear indicator of whether you have fulfilled that obligation. In that indicator, if I am not mistaken, it states that all directors of public enterprises are, in conclusion, appointed by a certain date on the basis of a competition conducted under such a transparent procedure, which will remove any suspicion of politics or corruption. Whatever party to be in power at that time, what was adopted here as a strategy, adopted by the MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which fully operationalised, or gave way to operationalisation of the action plan, will have to do so. This is why we received positive reviews for both strategies and action plans from the European Commission and the EU. So some things stop depending solely on our will. Whether or not we are entering a system of tutorship that will take us as long as we can until we meet all the conditions for entering full EU membership. These are not all countries that are members, you know that this has changed in the history of European integration, but how good it is, that all criteria for us are so strict, and for some other Member States have not been speaking, let's say, the fact that you are now among so-called. The old EU members have serious initiatives that some criteria are applied to countries that have joined, applied to the old Member States themselves, because they are suspected of the credibility of the claim that the situation there is great. One more detail regarding the public administration, I'm obliged to say it. Come on, let's limit it to, say, the state administration. Often you can see the inscriptions even contributed to an information show, if I'm not mistaken yesterday, by the number of employees in our public administration. If I'm not mistaken, you have a situation, let's say, one of us neighbouring countries that has recently become a member of the EU, Croatia has 40% fewer residents, there are more employees in the state administration than Serbia. Slovenia, which is even smaller than Croatia compared to us, has about the same number as Serbia. One of the key problems of our system of state administration is the inadequate location of people. You have some organs that are overworked, and where you have a shortage of employees. It's simple, what happened during that time when we didn't think much ahead, but from today to tomorrow until the next election. It happened that some ministers had significantly greater political authority than somewhere was the importance of their ministry, their portfolio, so they were able to elect both better systematisation and better staff plans. I always remember what I said, here, I'll say it again. In 1990. Serbia's justice ministry, which was then also the justice portfolio and the state administration's portfolio and the local self-government portfolio, so it was all there, if I'm not mistaken then was a register of political parties, etc., it was at the federal level that had 80 employees in Belgrade, and that ministry functioned much better than any latter. At the time, you had neither the High Council of the Judiciary, nor the State's Major Prosecutors, it was all within the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. You had an executor sitting in one office, you come in here, and you get his answer in three hours. Today in that same office you have three people around who don't stand a bunch of paper like that '90s, you have three people each in front of them have their own computer, a register in which by entering one piece of information, they can get the one they need, and you can't get that paper in a week, in a week and a half. That's our big problem. I've set an example of a ministry that I'm headed for, it doesn't necessarily mean it's like that, but it's a more graphic example, because citizens are facing it because citizens are meeting it. A citizen of more than that public administration is not treated the way a citizen should be and must be treated, and that is with respect, because it is the service of citizens and the state, not the master to whom he should worship on the counter in order to get his mouth to the opening through which he can better hear them by an official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22645	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22646	You were almost a Eurofanatic at first, Mr Selakovic, so to speak, you have had too much confidence in these obligations that come from the European integration process that will make us. In part, I can agree, but as strange as that may seem to someone else in that sense, I'm more of a Eurosceptic than you are. You yourself have finally said some negative examples from some countries that have recently entered the EU. These are not old members, that is Croatia. Some not so long ago Bulgaria, Romania, a whole series of cases. Some old members. It's hard to imagine, let's not be offended by a more complicated system of state public administration than Italian, for example. It's a decades-old question. Some countries went the other way, parties doing revolutionary, social change with the programme came to power. Very often, they faced a prevailing view in society and eventually implemented those reforms. I don't think there's much we can change just by meeting European requirements because then I think there's no change in that consciousness, and that's the key thing. You cited the example, Croatia has much higher costs. Croatia has a much bigger, more massive system of local self-government if you want to do it with Serbia. Slovenia has the same thing. They also adopted it as a decision of their own and as a kind of European trend. In the end, it turned out to be wrong, and it was certainly too expensive and too bulky for these countries' systems. That's what I'm telling you, who's going to make a political decision here based on some professional arguments that says – we need so many agencies, we need so many ministries, we need so many other parts of the administration or organisation of local self-government, relations between local self-government and central government, etc. That's the key questions. That ultimately depends on how the system works. As I think the best method of professionalising public enterprises, and then more efficient economies, is more efficient economies. Protecting against political influences, having as few public enterprises as possible. If you want there to be a less public sector in general than to trust that under EU pressure, we politicians in Serbia will either become ready or at least agree to no party appointments. I believe everything you say, Mr Selakovic, but there is no competition for "Serbiagas", there is no competition for "Post of Serbia", all other competitions go bad, you know that well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22647	The word is Mr. Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22648	I don't think there's any place for Eurofanatism or Euroscepticism of what I've said, I'm talking about something that I believe is good for us, I think we share an opinion like everyone who sits here in the O.R. that's something that's good and that's the ideal for whom we should strive. Is that real? I think it is, and it shows the experiences of some of the countries where it exists. Of course, these experiences were followed by a long, long period of time in which such a system was built. But Serbia is neither the first nor the last country to find itself in one difficult historical situation when its system collapses, when it needs to be revitalised, when it needs to be strengthened, when it needs to be restarted. For that, what I agree with you is the need for strong and firm political will and determination. Such political will can only bring political stability. Political stability needs to be achieved. You've listed some countries that have further problems, even though they've entered the Union, but unlike some of the ones you mentioned, the first ones, they don't exactly have that kind of problems. She has problems, it's normal, we have them, too, but this new way of checking the functionality of our institutions has passed only one EU member state so far. That's the strictest system. Montenegro is now passing it, i.e. He's just got to start passing it. We're about to have the same smile, and we've got a huge job ahead of us, a huge job in the process. A team before we're asked to do things that out of the 27 states don't exist in either. So, the strictest possible criterion. That's how it's gonna be when it comes to the state administration system. That's why I think it's during this very period ahead of us that we should give our best to succeed, to succeed as a society where these officers tomorrow, regardless of the change, will continue to do their job. We have a state-of-the-art service system, which I must confess to you, in which ministerial assistants are elected to the competition for five years. There was a strong opposition from political parties at the time of the adoption of such a law on civil servants. I must admit, there was no great desire to apply that law. By coming into office at the scene of justice and the state administration, I must say that I have realized with my team that if we, as a resolute ministry, do not show on our case that each assistant minister will be appointed to the competition, as it was not the case when we came to the ministry, we will not be able to ask others to do so, but it has to be done. So, let's say, in this amendment to the Government Act, you don't have that provision that, if I'm not mistaken, was only applied in one case, which is that a civil servant in a position can be put in place within 45 days, or suggest his resolution. They were people, look out, it's for me as a lawyer and for you, it's a terrible thing, that you have a law that should have been applied since 1.1.2010, and that you have a situation that 3.5 years or more in many cases is not applied. That was really the situation. We've changed that without talking about finding you, to be assistant minister, civil servant in office, you have to have a minimum of nine years of experience in the profession, high professional training, mostly from the field of our social sciences, and I've found myself in the position of assistant minister of men who didn't have a single day of work experience in the profession, who didn't have proof of the completed university and who spent two and a half years using what the assistant minister used. So he had his cabinet, his secretary, his official car. Since he was part of the business in the field of international action, not to mention exactly what he was talking about, he had travel abroad, a lot of journals, and it's not too bad, or it's too small a pity when you compare what the assistant minister needs to know and how much harm he can do to the state by his bad actions or by his inaction. It was like that. When we were able to overcome it and change it, to introduce order, I said, step by step, and we could do something. I thank you and I'm sorry I'm overextended, but I think these are the kind of things they use to be heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22649	As I understand it, Mr. Markovic is in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22650	Thank you, Mr. President, for understandable reasons, someone else was holding a session, you don't know what was going on before, so compared to that, I remind you that there is a right to be used in Articles 1 and 2. It's the replicas. I like the discussion that's been going on, but it's a matter of theme. Since the replicas are exhausted, it is only your right not to allow any further replicas on this subject, so that we can talk about the subject, and I am, since I have been working all day, and on the occasion I am showing how it is possible to help us distinguish what we are talking about and what we are doing, I am ready and that the minister when the question was the same about Kosovo, when the replicas were going, and he first accepted and I thank you. There's no time here today, no place to discuss it. I suppose they'll accept it now, I hope the members of the parliamentary group who participate in the replicas and I'm ready to pay them coffee in the first restaurant in front, not to mention the cost of citizens, to continue the topic of the agenda now. Thank you and please, use your right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22651	I must tell you, Mr Markovic, the minister has repeatedly used his right to speak after all this law, since there is a debate on the subject that we all agree is productive and to be guided in the spirit of how to speak in parliament, I wanted to allow this to continue. As many times as the minister reports, I think it takes so many times, especially for MPs who belong to the opposition, to answer that, especially if they can't use in their answers less time than the minister can in his answers, but I will give Mr Đurić, and I hope, if the minister doesn't have additional statements, that this will end this and this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22652	If the minister talks one more time, I won't answer. Thanks for the coffee offer, I don't need it, it's late for coffee, we've exhausted ourselves enough today. Yes, Croatia has been through all this, but there are still many problems. We can use this method of what we studied from a distance, and I was in Croatia talking to some people on weekends. Huge problems of Croatian health care, health ministry organisations, funds like us, even though it is an EU member state. You're talking about 1990 and 1991, and then, not only did we lose a special organization that did this, but a system collapsed in the meantime, and we set up a new one. If you're talking about the Ministry of Justice, it did work like this in 1990 by some kind of momentum, and in a very strange system, it's been working since 1997, and then it all fell apart when justice was in the ministry, and politics went to the courts completely. I can't feel the next thing, Mr. Selakovic, you're an example of the Ministry of Justice, I don't go in and believe the word that might have happened, but I'm not sure you've changed a lot of things in the meantime. What's one of the assistant traffic ministers' name? Are you sure that he has proof of the completed university, years of experience in the profession, I am talking about Mr. Sasha Mirkovic and he is not a problem for me as a person, but has always been an enigma, which actually bothers one such man and politician, that in addition to the functions he has at some other level, victory in some elections or conditional victories, he chooses to be an assistant minister or wants to be an assistant minister, to be involved in something that is professional work in his nature and to be responsible for a very important job, very important sector. What is it in us that we are entering politics, in Serbia, so dislocated, to say a little more freely, that we are going in that direction? It's not ambition, you'll agree. Most people who enter with serious ambition into politics in some regulated European countries. I'd like to change that, and I won't answer that again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22653	National MPs Ivan Karic, Borislav Stefanovic, Ljiljana Lučić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Dejan Nikolic and Gordana Comic together submitted an amendment with an amendment proposing that new members of 5a – 5dd be added after Article 5. On the basis of Article 163(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, rejected this amendment and rejected the amendments, as referred to in Article 163(4). Rules of Procedure, I can't be the subject of a debate and I can't vote on them. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 7 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Vesna Kovac, Vladimir Ilic and Ivan Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 8th amendment in the same text, MPs Vesna Kovac, Vladimir Ilic and Ivan Jovanovic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) The MPs Vesna Kovac, Vladimir Ilic and Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 9th amendment in the same text. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to Article 10 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the 10th amendment in the same text, MPs Vesna Kovac and Vladimir Ilic submitted. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Articles 157, paragraphs 6 and 161 of Article 1. The Rules of Procedure of the 10th Amendment were submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. At its meeting of the Committee on Justice for the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, a representative of the Proposer accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment is an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. Does anyone want a word? The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. He wants the word Mr. Karic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22654	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Minister, the few colleagues and colleagues, we won't be long, and we can't for more than two minutes. With this amendment, I wanted to try to cut short the deadline to cut short the time that is going on and to finish this story on the reconstruction of the ministries, with the desire first of all to say what we have talked very much about today to form the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, to have on one side a modern organization, that what we have passed on to both the prime minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister in Serbia over the past few months. Mostly we agreed on it in principle. We didn't get along in any detail, but I guess that time will get rid of it, too. Green Serbia thinks the ministry is necessary. That this alignment deadline could have been shorter, because they told us it took another month to form a real environment ministry. When there's a will, any problem can be solved. We worked in the main lines to make it look like a serious ministry dealing with sustainable management and environmental protection, and natural resources, and we passed it all on, I say once again, a few months ago and a premium and the first vice president of the government. We hope that in the coming period we will work on this, and what we can use may be better than other parties, these are links with the European Green Party, membership in the European Green Party and to say that we all bring Serbia closer together to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22655	The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22656	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in Article 11 of this bill, it is foreseen that the ministries whose work has been amended by this law have 30 days to comply with the rules on internal planning and job systematization. The same is predicted for the first-time ministries. Now I have to ask you. The government started falling in January. You said January. All right, the DS was right when she said we don't have the men and resources to run this country. Then you said there'd be a reconstruction soon. Then in April, you said the reconstruction in May. In May, you said, reconstruction in July. In July, you said a reconstruction in August. That looks about like marathons. When Billy Python asks when the money is coming, you said in November, in December, in January, and there is no reconstruction. It's finally been a year and you've reconstructed it all. Now you'll be doing the rules for another 30 days, then you'll be making plans for another year, and you'll pass your mandate. And of course that doesn't give us the trust of the DS, and neither do you of the ruling majority, because you don't trust yourself, which will prove to be as much at the vote in a few days. Of course, it arouses suspicion and skepticism that you will do this job properly, and at the same time, it is a desire for us to make you do a little work. Then we tell you you're 30 days old. Although you really want to do show good will so put this deadline on some time period of 30 days. Otherwise, you will prove that we were right when we criticised you, because our words and criticisms that we referred to in this government's election were not words of jeda, which, jealousy and envy because DS was not part of this failed project, but were words based on the experience of the '90s which immediately gave us an answer to the question – what will be the results of this government's work. The worst in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22657	Mr. Markovic, come in. The remaining time as president of the parliamentary group, seven minutes and 30 seconds and seven minutes and 50 seconds of the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22658	It's total, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22659	A total of 15 minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22660	Thank you very much. It only took me a notice, of course, because people differ not by what they say but by what they do today we had such a situation that you can see exactly what someone is capable of talking about and what they are capable of doing in relation to it and I am trying to do so and I have had great help from the chairman, Minister and Mr Babic, Mr Stefanovic and the other MPs, allowed me to at least partially cut short what could have gone on indefinitely, and I said I will not report by amendments proposed by the parliamentary group of the URS and I did not, of course, report because I was able to keep my word. I felt uncomfortable today when I saw those MPs coming out, so it turns out that what they promised in one replica is a bigger offense, but well, it's all human, it's part of this life that exists in the National Assembly. In short, these are all the amendments that we have made, are those amendments that have left the possibility that whatever the proposer wishes for technical reasons, since, as the minister has found for the needs of personal changes, there is a legal precondition for such amendments and amendments to the law, and there are some other language inaccuracies that existed, whether it is in the Constitution or the term that stood in the previous ratification bill of confirmation, but it is quite clear, because we all know what life is and what the law is, it is clear that there are still different dilemmas and it is completely understandable to me, still the Prime Minister has not delivered the names or publicly published them. It's possible to change, and we've only created amendments to the preconditions if, within this very kind of coalition agreement, some key parties that are going to be made, to create an opportunity, and there's no cost. That's why all these amendments are just a logical consequence, so that someone doesn't make good wishes. I wish there was this and that ministry. No, we also respected what we saw as a coalition agreement, and whenever we suggested that it remain what proved to be profitable, Mr Dinkic is not so capable, so that the ministry gave it here for a year 30% of the law. No, I guess it's because it's necessary at this point that it exists uniquely. Whenever we proposed it, then we suggested that the ministry that showed that there was a problem in implementing the policy objectives and certainly not the minister's fault, to allow it to then create what the consent and support it had given, the day before that also the Deputy Prime Minister was present. If he had been president, I suppose he would have given. In order not to be complicated now, we have been giving these technical opportunities and, of course, we have been prepared to make these options, if in any way they are confirmed as effective, because the minister said correctly – there is no new budget cost, there is no production of these amendments and additions to the law, but of course there are no large costs, but there are some costs within the already existing budget. It's natural when you have two ministries of one, then at least you have the expense of one minister. Otherwise, there are state secretaries, I don't mean personally people, who will lead. It's rational things and it's a discussion about when someone knows the job, what can be done. In contrast, I suppose, the URS parliamentary group, since these are all well-intentioned suggestions, won't be necessary, then it won't be necessary for us to vote for amendments and additions to the law. With me staying on the most normal offer, to save money, because I don't believe there's a problem with any party and there's a solid and strong parliamentary majority, there's no reason to have a session tomorrow, because there's going to be a vote before it. I stand at your disposal, Mr. Stefanovic. The U.S. MPs are all here, they have no problem and I'm personally prepared to stay and give the quorum and go straight to the vote. But if there's any other reason, I don't argue at all. But now a small contribution to the discussion, to the well-intentioned one that was led. I'm talking to you, Mr. Selakovic. On several occasions the day before yesterday, you gave a very correct and well-intentioned series of data about what you were doing and how it was done, how you heard it was done in the '90s, or read it, or heard it or read it in 2001. Please, because I respect you as a responsible man, carefully with that information. As it happens in a live discussion, a few dozen of these data are unfortunately incorrect and are more downloaded from the news headlines of one time, not now, so they simply entered the literature, but they are statistically incorrect. Because, as you can see, the biggest problem occurs when people mix up what reality is, what are facts and what is what is written in newspapers and television. Once again, thank you all for helping today's discussion, and for your patience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22661	I didn't understand this proposal by Mr. Markovic, does he suggest that the MPs of the URS come down now so we can hold a vote, or are you going to give the voting quorum tomorrow? I didn't understand that very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22662	Mr. Stefanovic, as you know, I am a serious man and I respect the correct procedure. Today, Mr Babic is about my finding, exactly what is the consequence of what is said in the assembly speaker, there are financial consequences, so I accept his apology and his correct discussion, and I am telling you the same thing now – well, of course, when you are now scheduled to vote in five minutes, the URS MPs are coming down immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22663	It might not be bad for them to come down immediately, just to ensure conditions for the vote. Because if it is scheduled in five minutes, sometimes it takes a longer time than the parliamentary groups to reach the O.R. and we can break those deadlines and then Mr. Milivojevic will criticise me, you know how it's already going. Mr. Cvian has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22664	Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the amendment we're discussing already exactly 12 hours will soon be and the discussion will slowly be over. I think that today's discussion confirms only what I was authorized to do in front of the SNS parliamentary group two days ago, which is that we were actually here discussing an extremely good law, one in a series of good laws proposed by the Ministry of Justice, Mr Selakovic and his team. Two days ago, on behalf of the SNS parliamentary group, I said that this law is far from cosmetics, that there are extremely high quality changes to the Law on Ministrys and very high-quality changes in the state administration system of Serbia, that it is good that what is proposed and that we will finally try, after a long time, to have a divided Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance, that it is good that quality-defined powers of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in terms of diaspora, which is very important for Serbia, and because of the intelligence that comes from that single Corps, and we expect one day, especially now that the environment in Serbia is corrected, that the diaspora will also invest more in Serbia. It is good that this law stipulates that the newly established ministries will take over, it is very precise, both employees and archives and cases. So, all citizens who are some kind of application, appeal or whatever they've already sent to the current Ministry of Finance and Business have nothing to worry about. It will all be taken over and newly established ministries will take over to do the work they are now authorised to do. I think today's debate on amendments has proved, and that's important to repeat to the citizens, that this law is basically extremely well written. I must remind you that the government has not accepted any of the 39 amendments that have been submitted, but the reason is very simple – almost all the amendments submitted have gone towards establishing new ministries. Whether it's the Ministry of Environmental Protection, whether it's the Ministry of Faith, whether it's the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, we've heard even suggestions to set up a new KIM ministry, a new Ministry of European Integration, etc., in general, we've concluded that they're not such bad ideas. On the contrary, these are correct proposals, the amendments were properly written, but any introduction of new ministries would cost citizens of Serbia, cost the budget. It is good that the number of ministries remained on these 18 as far as the proposed law now provides, because 18 ministries are not expensive for Serbia, 18 ministries will not require additional costs from the Republic of Serbia's budget, 18 ministries will not require that Serbian citizens separate some special funds to finance the state administration. So, to implement the law in this form in which we will eventually adopt it, no special funding is required in the Republic of Serbia's budget. In one word, there have been some changes to the law. Four amendments to the Justice Committee were accepted by the minister. Some of these amendments are also written together, unanimously accepted by the opposition MPs, by the ruling majority MPs, so that when all is gathered together, if we exclude perhaps some and not so appropriate discussions in the Assembly, but I guess it's part of the political struggle and gleaning that appears here in the Assembly, when we add it all together, I think we have had a very correct and very constructive discussion. Especially with these four amendments to the Committee on Justice, which have been unanimously accepted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, tomorrow when we vote, we will have excellent law, European law, a law which, in any case, the SNS parliamentary group will be very pleased to accept, and we believe that even one part of the opposition will, when it looks at all these arguments, be defined as voting for. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22665	Mr. Risticevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22666	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope that, despite many replicas, despite even some offensive expressions, we have agreed that this is a technical law, which should allow us to choose as soon as possible, namely to reconstruct a government that has not fallen, but to go into reconstruction, so that as president of the People's Peasants' Party, I say that I will vote for this law, of course, before the new Minister of Agriculture has to act, given that the problems in agriculture have been burdened, that there have been two dry years, that the invented affair of aflatoxin, where certain amounts of corn, which did not exist in the warehouses, with the intention to cover up, drawn an aversion towards our country, and it has come at a very poor vote and from one of the leading exporters of corn in the world, has become very difficult and this has resulted in very low prices. Since our livestock industry was unable to meet a price, prices fell below the price on the Budapest Stock Exchange. So they became very miserable and peasants, who rebel, are rightly rebelling. They need to know what's causing these low prices, despite the droughts and the low yields. Our livestock production could not provide an adequate price for corn and other agricultural products, and I want, above all, as a agricultural producer, to rebuild the Government as soon as possible and to address these problems by the new Minister of Agriculture. So I'm going to cut this discussion short and thank everyone for their attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22667	Thank you. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22668	Rules of Procedure, dignity of the National Assembly, Article 107, 108. So you can't expect the opposition to vote for something like this, and neither is it some technical document that we're adopting today, nor is it a document that's being adopted quickly. We've indicated today that nine months of adoption and the DS won't vote for this. This isn't any technical document, and it didn't come from any imaginary aflatoxin affair, but it came from your inability to solve problems in agriculture. Don't accuse DS or anyone of inventing an affair of aflatoxin, but accuse your incompetent ministers of not knowing that the answers to the ablatoxin affair. Because it's true. If the aflatoxin affair didn't exist, then why did you move the limit of aflatoxin? This is about the dignity of the National Assembly and do not violate the dignity of the National Assembly by making false claims. Don't transfer your incompetence to DS. As far as the vote is concerned, we're not voting for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22669	By amendment? You're right, you're right.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22670	I wouldn't answer any more, but I really don't think I ever claimed anything or accused anyone. What's a fact, that's that, during the last check, two months ago, there were large shortages of corn that were reportedly declared aflatoxin. So, that's the only fact I've put out, which has resulted in a very low export rating of our country, and everything has affected the price of agricultural products, especially corn and the damage our country has suffered from more than 120m euros. I haven't accused anyone, nor will I accuse them, but I have said that the new Minister of Agriculture must solve these problems. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22671	Thank you. Mr. Selakovic has the final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22672	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's to wrap up this debate, one in a series of debates on the laws with which the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration came here before you. As some colleagues have said, I do believe that the adoption of this law is only one previous step in carrying out an important task, which is the choice of new ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia. During the debate, more evaluations and qualifications were presented and indeed something I have not looked back on so far. Still, let me put it in the final word, because I have an obligation. There was talk of a government whose member I am, and several times it has been said in an inappropriate way that this is one of the worst governments in Serbia's history, and a lot is related to that qualification. Whether a government is good or not, they always end up giving citizens an election. I am convinced that one day in the elections they will give an assessment to this government and know that in a proper way they appreciate its work as they knew it for every previous government, however much some of us now from this place and from this distance did not like what that assessment was, "vox popula, vox daj" – "the voice of the people, the voice of God". This is not one of the worst governments and that some things have started to change, I've tried to get through a little bit of the work the Ministry is doing to which I'm headed. That's why I'm glad that the end of tonight's debate stayed more in the light of it than in the light of many hard, rough, sometimes unsuitable words that are here today and the day before. Hear. I have to say something that I have a duty to do both as a man and as someone proposed by the SNS to this place. I really don't know if there have been any public abuses in the past two and a half decades as it was in the so-called "aflatoxin" affair, of which there was nothing in the end. Nothing but the enormous damage inflicted on the Serbian peasant, the Serbian state, Serbian grain, Serbian milk, meat, and why? Because someone felt threatened by those domains that had been available to him until then. Because he had experienced it, that God had and had not, and his worst fall was that he had no more power. I need something like the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia to state in the end. Convinced he won't lose something like that without proper sanctions. But I doubt that this size and this kind of damage could replace any sanctions. Is it enough for ourselves to do such damage both after sanctions and after wars and after political instability? The citizens will evaluate it, you can cheat them once, you can double, but if you get to that third time then unfortunately it's no good because they won't trust you anymore. I thank you for the constructive parts of the debate and I am convinced that the law in the voting day will be supported by most MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-08-28-0.u22673	Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and generality. Since the National Assembly has completed its discussion of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 87(5). I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Thursday 29 August 2013 starting at 10.00 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Thank you to all the MPs. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find the session to be attended by 101 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are working conditions. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of the only item on the agenda of this session, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, in principle. I conclude the vote and I find that - 128, v - 61, abstentions - did not, did not vote one of the 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become amendments to the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government to Articles 2, 4, 5 and 10. It's a bill of law. I would also like to remind you that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives has rejected amendments from the People's MP Aleksandr Senic, who, after Article 1, is added a new member of the 1st, who, after Article 5, is added a new member of the 5a, as well as an amendment with a correction submitted jointly by the MPs Ivan Karic, Borislav Stefanovic, Ljiljana Lučić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Dejan Nikolic and Gordana Komic, who were proposed to add new members of 5a – 5dj. According to Article 163(4), point 4 is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, rejected amendments cannot be discussed and are not voted on. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that -35, against -one, abstentions - did not vote 156 out of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that -49, against -one abstention - did not vote 143 of the 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Vesna Kovac. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that -22, v - two, abstention - one, did not vote 169 out of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for -12, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 182 of the 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Karic, Borislav Stefanovic, Ljiljana Lučić, Radoslav Milovanovic, Dejan Nikolic and Gordana Comic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for -52, against -no one with abstentions - has voted 142 of the 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I conclude: for -30, against -one abstention - no, 165 of the 196 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for -45, no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Radmila Gerov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for -39, against -two abstentions - no, 155 of the 196 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that -39, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that for -41, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP Vesna Kovac has submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that -31, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 out of 196 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that -22, against - no one with abstentions - voted 173 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 3rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that -39, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 156 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th Amendment were submitted by MPs Vesna Kovac, Vladimir Ilic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I am concluding the vote and I am saying that for -45, no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and I find that -38, against -no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 out of 195 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic and Radmila Gerov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 36, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 159 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic together submitted an amendment proposing that a new article be added after Article 5. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 38, no one, with abstentions, voted 157 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 31, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 164 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. People's MPs, just to let you know that we're about to begin the session that's scheduled for 10:30, start right after the vote. The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MPs Vesna Kovac, Vladimir Ilic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 42, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 8th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vesna Kovac, Vladimir Ilic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vesna Kovac, Vladimir Ilic and Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 37, against – two abstentions – there is no vote, 156 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 162 of the total of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Vesna Kovac and Vladimir Ilic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 14, no one, abstentioned – one, voted 180 of the total number of 195 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Jovanovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total of 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 39, against – no one, with abstention – voted 157 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th Amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 52, no one, with abstentions, voted 144 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Milivojevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 48, against – two abstentions – there are no, 146 of the 196 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you he's a member of 12. The bill provides for this law to take effect on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(5) The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and other general acts shall enter into force on the eighth day following the day of their publication and may enter into force earlier only if there are, in particular, reasonable reasons for this, established at the time of their adoption. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – 61 abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the 196 MPs present. I find that by the majority of the votes of all MPs, the National Assembly has found that there are particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Since we have come to the conclusion of the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Ministry Act, in general. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – 66 abstentions – there are no, two of the 196 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on amendments and additions to the Ministry Act. I remind you of the provisions of Article 103, Section 6 and Section 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on the occasion of the apparition of the Members of Parliaments to infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure, according to which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may require, without the right to an explanation, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. We're moving on to a decision. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 26 August 2013, at 11 o'clock and 15 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 27 and 86. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 43, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 26 August 2013, at 11 o'clock and 20 minutes, pointed to a violation of Article 155. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 41, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 156 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Bojan Đuric, at a session on 26 August 2013, at 19 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 33, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 165 of the total of 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Vuceta Toskovic, at a session on 28 August 2013, at 12 hours and 49 minutes, pointed to injuries from members 106 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 198 of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Bojan Djuric, at a session on 28 August 2013, at 16 hours and 35 minutes, pointed to injuries of members 27 and 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for 39, no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 198 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that these members of the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. National MP Zoran Babic, at a session on 28 August 2013, at 17 hours and 30 minutes, pointed to the injuries of member 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: for one, no one, against the abstentions, voted 196, out of the 197 MPs present as a whole. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Shormaz, at a session on 28 August 2013, at 20 o'clock and 24 minutes, pointed to injuries of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. I conclude the vote and declare: four, none, with abstentions, voted 193, of the 197 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of and decision-making of the session's single agenda, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. The session is closed at 10.45 hours. )
