ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18466	Madam Chairman, I think that by article 87, you owe an apology to both MPs and citizens and that you should have said at the beginning, not only for the delay of this morning, but for the constant delay of the beginning of the work of the National Assembly. It's 10:30 p.m., and yesterday we started working at 17.15 p.m. We worked half an hour ago, and this congregation, by all accounts, is not working. The situation from the Government of the Republic of Serbia is being reviewed, because here we have people who are lazy to come to the session at 10:00 in the morning, and how can we proceed with the sleepers? Likely, those who kept the tests for laying founders acted similarly, so they slept over when some took a number of these tests and gave them up for copying and selling. Please do not underestimate the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, try to organise your parliamentary groups to appear here at 10 o'clock, and that is not much, that is, as far as I know, 84 MPs, and you have a majority of at least 140 MPs. Try to set up some schedules for them and arrange a wake-up call at 10 o'clock here and so they don't wait until the beginning of every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18467	I will remind you, Mr. Veselinovic, of the provision of Article 127(1). The Rules of Procedure say that MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves before entering the O.R. by inserting cards into MPs' units, i.e. to log out when leaving the O.R. Since the MPs who didn't insert their identification cards sat down, I expected them to do so in a very short time, so I don't think I should apologize to you. If you want, you can vote on this in the voting day. Do you want to? (Yes) Mr. Kishmarton, did you want to hurt the Rules of Procedure or something? No, I don't. We're continuing our work. Member of the 12th Amendment was submitted by MP Karolj Chizik. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18468	Mr. Ministers and Government representatives, today we're really starting out in some kind of anxiety, and we've been worried about whether there's going to be a quorum or not, we're going to be worried about what the test is going to be at 12 o'clock, whether it's going to be all right. I hope it won't be a scandal like it was yesterday, that both parents and students will take it in peace and do that final little graduation. I don't know if yesterday, you told the ministers that the authorities of the criminal police were hired to do something, I don't know if they did, they had more than 24 hours to do it, but I hope it won't be so, that it will be forgotten slowly. I will move on to an amendment that is not accepted, which refers to Article 12 of the Article 4th of the LSV MP has suggested that, if the course takes place in schools in the language of the national minority, if the course is in Hungarian, Russian, Slovak, Romanian, it is prescribed by this law that the teaching must also be organised in Serbian. We suggested that if teaching is in the language of the national minority, classes of Serbian language and literature must be organised. If teaching is in the language of the national minority and teaching in Serbian, it is kind of unimaginable to me, as classes of Serbian language and literature should be organized in the language of the national minority.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18469	The People's MP, Olena Papuga, submitted to the 12th Amendment. The government has not spoken out on this amendment, and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society has not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18470	There's been a misunderstanding, since we were on the Committee when we discussed the laws, it's been suggested that we withdraw the amendment and make, or we put one sentence into that sentence, in fact, one word, but I don't know what happened in the meantime, but I'll explain it anyway. This is Article 12, paragraph 5, which speaks of the original case, and I have talked about it several times, and in principle I talked about it, and it encouraged me that, by contacting the national councils of the national communities, and also by working in education for several years, since I had been fostering Russian language, even in Belgrade, I saw that there were a lot of problems in fostering the language of national minorities. I'm going to say that languages don't care, you know who's fostering, sick people tending, languages learning, that language care, I don't think it's a good term. Secondly, it is that the language of the national communities of national minorities enters the V-group electoral object, meaning that a group of electoral subjects is entering religious and civic education, and even in this law it is foreseen that there is a commission for religious education, in fact for religious teaching. The languages of national minorities didn't deserve to have their own commission. They were placed in a group of V electoral items, optional electoral items where the choir, folklore, is a degradation of the language of national minorities. I would also point out that if an electoral object were to be placed, therefore, the language of a national minority in that group where there is religiousism and where there is civil education, it would be no big deal, because if the students had two electoral and compulsory subjects, and the parents pleaded at the beginning of the school year whether or not their children were going to learn the academic and electoral language and that children were going to learn the native language on an electoral basis, and the subject was evaluated, but the assessment does not go on average, I think it is really a degradation of mother language learning. I certainly think, and the Institute for Promotion, Education and Education has already repeatedly objected that the language of the national communities could be an electoral subject, as is religious and civic education. So, please, Ministers, once again, that's what the National Council had to do, because there's a lot of problems in that, let me say, with the academic language learning. After all, and then what is the motive of learning the language, so I ask you to reconsider that amendment and to meet children who want to learn the native language in schools where teaching is in Serbian. There's also a problem with the textbook. Nothing's been regulated about that course of university language learning. If it were that electoral item on that level like a religious one, it would be completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18471	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18472	I don't think there's any reason to fear the possible assimilation of minority members because that's the only way I can understand your initiative to introduce the second electoral object as an obligation. The Law on the founding of an education and education system in Article 19(3) regulates that one of the obligations of electoral subjects is religious teaching or civil education. You're asking the question of children's rights to learning, teaching the language of the national minority. I have to tell the public that this right absolutely exists and is being used. This is about the academic choice for those children who have defined themselves to participate in the teaching course in Serbian, and they have the right to carry out teaching subjects of the national minority, with elements of national culture as electoral. Your amendment would include the creation of a new school plan and programmes and, let me say, a fundamental reconstruction of Article 72, and then one question arises, if minority members are allowed to learn in their language, why do we deny them the right to not choose the university subject, and why do you think it should be mandatory and which should be evaluated? If you think there's a fear, okay, I can understand that, but the question of choice is probably the question of the rights and choices. He's got a choice and he's chosen and I don't see that problem.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18473	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Olena Papuga, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18474	I wasn't talking about national minorities feeling like they don't have that right. We have this right and we feel it right and we use it right. I am a member of the national minority, and I have always used where I could use this right of expression in my native language, after all, and until I finished my studies in the native language, and thus Serbia can really boast, because only in Serbia can we use it, all that education system in the native language. I wasn't talking about assimilation. Minister, I was talking about what a motive is, why a child has to learn a foreign language and it's being evaluated, it gives him some motive to learn another language and another language. Not everyone learns a foreign language because they love it or because I don't know what, but because they need it or because it might be evaluated, so that good grades will go on average. I'm not saying it's the same with native languages, but I think the state really should have an understanding of why it's not being evaluated and why the rating doesn't go on average, I don't understand it. Why such fear of learning mother tongues? So what's the motive? For some kids in multinational environments, going into native language might be somewhere, not looking so nice at it. Why not give motive perhaps to other national communities to learn the language of the social environment, in fact, the language of the environment in which they live? Why is this not evaluated and why so much trouble about this change of program and, I don't know, teaching plans and everything? I think it's very little to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18475	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18476	I think there's one fundamental misunderstanding here, do minority members have the right to education in their own language? They do. This is about their choice to attend classes in Serbian, where they also have a mother tongue subject with elements of national culture. You're starting from the assumption that the rating will be the highest, what if it's not the highest grade? If we're talking about rights, is he right? Yes, but this is a question of his choice, and the assessment shouldn't be a motive, but I guess the desire to learn a language. If he wants to learn in his own language, he's right. If he wants to learn in Serbian, learns in Serbian, he attends this subject this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18477	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18478	I think we've got it straight, I know that the right exists to learn a language. Not everyone learns language to have a good grade or to have a good grade on average because they learn native language, but think of it that way, if you don't earn, if you don't get a grade in this case, what's the motive for doing something free? I'm not saying that by learning a free language that's good, I'm not going to discuss it right now, but I guess I should give the students of the Ministry, the state some motive, and the motive is to motivate children, to go to mother tongue learning, to evaluate it and really, to get that grade on average. Just like a man does when he's working, he's got to make money. Who works for free?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18479	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18480	First of all, I would like to thank and congratulate my colleague, who has expressed her concern as an amendment speaker for a very important segment of our democracy and pluralism in our society, issues of national minorities' status in the overall social life, and also in the segment of education. In particular, I would like to commend the Ministry of Education, which, by means of my own solutions to this law, even in relation to this amendment, has shown that and how responsibly it shares that same concern. I don't think what the proposer sees sufficiently condescendingly lies in the next one. Not only is the native language possible space of denial for full affirmation of the identities of national minorities. It can also be a creed. If this amendment were to be respected, then students who come from the community of some of the national minorities could learn their native language by election, optional, competitive, with, say, the catechism of their religion, which can also be minority to citizens. The full volume of affirmation of the particularities of the national minorities is now giving the solution advocated by the Ministry of Education. So I think that although the proposing's intentions are undoubtedly justified, because they stem from concerns about the important subject, I am almost convinced that the Ministry of Education here, for exactly the same concern and for the same reasons, is not wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18481	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Olena Papuga, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18482	Yeah, it's okay, but I'll talk about it again. I mean, why is religion a mandatory electoral object, and learning a native language isn't? I don't understand that. Why does one student need to learn, necessarily choose a religion and not necessarily choose his native language?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18483	Thank you. The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18484	I believe that Article 12 in the proposal for a law on basic education is absolutely entirely comprehensive and treats all these issues in accordance with the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System. Setting up or running an argument of motive for learning the native language, then doing so by assessing and entering that assessment on average is not a good argument. No one chooses an electoral object because it would be evaluated and it would go on average, but actually has another motive – preserving its national identity, language care, etc. Secondly, by respecting the legal solutions that treat this, we cannot bring members of national minorities into an unequal position compared to other students in Serbia, because by respecting this amendment, we are making one exception that has another meaning if viewed from another angle, which is a greater burden, to which we have no right. Therefore, in this case, we are making two categories of students, whose students are members of national minorities, in an unequal position. So I would also agree that students of national minorities can learn in their own language if there are certain conditions or bilingually. Even there's a clause that could be a smaller class with less than 15 students. I think it is rare that a country in the environment behaves similarly against students of Serbian nationality and who are in the position of a national minority and if in this way, as governed by Article 12, then indeed a high and high standard that Serbia respects would be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18485	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18486	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll read what Article 13 reads, and then I'll read what we've been correcting. Article 13 refers to school and says this: "According to the programme of education and education it achieves, the school can be a national school or foreign school. "We say, "A school, according to a programme of education and education, can be a national school or a foreign school. "So it's the same, just a little bit different. "The curricula and the programme adopted under the Law is being implemented by a national school," the ministry says, and we say "The National School is achieving a curricula and a programme adopted under the Law." The ministry says, "A foreign programme according to the law is a foreign school," and we say, "A foreign school is implementing a foreign programme according to the law. "It can be said what we wanted to do and why we changed this. Well, I have to say, Mr. Minister, that the Serbian language has certain rules, has its own grammar, has its own spelling, and that's where the sentences are formed. When you form a sentence as it says in the law, it's really not clear. Can you imagine? Is this supposed to be interpreted? He says, "The curricula and the programme adopted under the law is being implemented by a national school." It's simple, it's known in grammar as where the verb is placed, how the noun is set, what the subject is, what the forerunner is. I believe that you as a government and we as a national parliament must really take care of the language. I think the language is being nursed. It is nurtured by respect for the rules prescribed by grammar and spelling. It is respected and cherished by the use of it by institutions such as parliament in the right way and means that the government and ministries, especially the Ministry of Education, use the language in the same way. That's what the Constitution obliges us to do. That's what article 10 says. The constitution, but it binds us above all, and the position you as minister and we as MPs are in. Why did you tell us not to accept the amendment? The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the formulation in this article of the bill puts the accent on the criteria, i.e. on the curriculum and the programme according to which we distinguish the national school or foreign school. You can put an accent on whatever you want. You put it one other way, but you respect the rules of language and you respect where you put it. Imagine if someone had to interpret what you put in there? Please, no kind of change, nor have we changed the accent in terms of what it is that you wanted to achieve with this member. Nothing, we were just trying to get it in order in relation to the grammar we have to respect. It's completely clear. Watch out, the national school is achieving a teaching plan and a law-based program. Nothing is unclear and nothing is the opposite of what you wrote, it just has a beginning, a middle and an end. Nothing's changed. We haven't changed any of the accentes you put in this article. We've only changed what needs to be changed so anyone who reads the law can understand it. I'm afraid of each other's things. We keep saying the laws are interpreted. The laws don't need to be interpreted. He who can read must understand what is written in the law, must be spoken in simple language. There's no high-level policy here. This is just one thing anyone at school wants to be clear about what needs to be accomplished, take and read, and that's okay. If he's supposed to interpret what you were going to say and where you wanted to put the accent, I'm afraid we missed the assignment. That's my opinion. I'm really trying to speak here the way we're bound by what we studied in schools and what we got some grades for in the end. I don't see what's controversial about the amendment to accept it? We've tried more of these things in the following amendments, to see what's the beginning, what's the middle, what's the end, who's doing what, the subject, the predicate and the like, to remind me of what we're building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18487	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18488	Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18489	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18490	Thank you. I'm using the MP's time group. Just to make a statement to the minister that he forgot part of the sentence – thank you for the explanation and I accept the amendment. The amendment is a paradigm not only of the way laws are written, but of the paradigm of the relations between the Assembly and the Government. As many times as I've been startled by a provision in a member of the law and a lack of literacy, I've had so much fun making up my mind. It will come to my turn and my amendments, where the arguments are that my amendment is not accepted because the same is already accepted. I don't mind not accepting an amendment that the MP has submitted, but I do strongly object that my government, whether I support or dispute it, is embarrassing this kind of thing just because of psychological barriers and stubbornness. The reasons for this amendment and this amendment are the paradigm of the way the debate on the revisions of the law usually happens in the National Assembly. Only someone who is stubborn because the amendment is signed or signed by a member or member of an opposition parliamentary group may not accept this amendment, which is identical in the text, more written than is the basic Article 13 in the bill and with an explanation that is nothing more than a message that we want laws that are written and clear and that have no need to interpret. I have one more remark, since it is heard too, and I would pray that we understand that I will repeat this sentence in each of the amendments that I have made or during the debate on the amendments of other fellow Members of Parliament. When we get an interpretation from the minister that it's a legal interpretation, then, I don't mean this minister, I mean any minister, or the minister doesn't know what legal interpretation is, or he doesn't care, or he just wants to waste his job with a MP who has very serious objections to the text of a member of the law. The laws serve, not to entertain employees of state administrations and not to make life more difficult for those they refer to but rather on the contrary. The laws serve to be understood by all those whom they refer to simply because they regulate the areas of life that we live. Those who write us laws and write us arguments, I ask them to spare us the demeanor, the type of reasoning that is with this amendment or the type of reasoning as they are with some of the other amendments, which is - your amendment is not accepted because it is accepted. If it is difficult to come up with a formula that would look like an explanation and an explanation why an amendment to that and that MP is not accepted, we are prepared to help here. We have participated and will deliver a resolution of the National Assembly on legislation. We also participated in the creation of unique methodological rules. If, of all the employees in all the ministries, no one can think of a better explanation than - your amendment is not accepted, because it is already accepted, then there is a couple of us who will be happy to help the government write down explanations that we will not be ashamed to read and deposit in stenograms and in the institutional memory of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18491	Thank you, the word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18492	Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, yesterday I informed the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and you present MPs that the government has accepted 58 amendments and I think 51 amendments concern the MPs directly. These are mainly MPs and party representatives who make up representatives of the opposition in this esteemed home. The government wasn't in charge, let me tell that fact whether someone is making a congregation majority or not, but by the quality of the amendment, and we'll do it in the future. When I thanked my colleague Vojić Markovic, he did it himself, because I think so, and we will consult with the Secretariat of the legislation because every text before it comes to you, before the Government's statement goes through the Legislative Secretariat and we will see what their opinion is. Personally, I have no problem accepting that amendment in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18493	Anyone else want a word about the amendment? (No) The amendments were submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18494	This amendment is very similar to the previous amendment explained by my colleague Milica Vojic Markovic. We suggest that a different order of words be better in that sentence. If you consider the previous amendment, this goes in a package with the previous one. I hope you accept it. However, what I would use to mention is Article 14 in which it says that according to the school founder it can be public or private. The Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or unit of local self-government is the founder of a public school. I also looked at the next amendment coming from another parliamentary group, in the second position, which lists who can be the founder of a public school, where the minister is asked to include in the bill and in this place the founding rights or founding rights of a particular educational institution, i.e. public school, also have national councils of national minorities. Yesterday, on the board, I understood that you had accepted such an amendment, or a double of a member, but that the supplement was contained in the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, so in this roof, and then it is understood that you are referring to it as a reason for refusing, to add that the founder may also be some of the national councils of the national minorities. I have the moral right to dispute this because I was an MP in the last meeting when there was also the National Minority Council Act. At that time, as a parliamentary group, we had a lot of disputed some of the solutions of the law, which was then a proposal. We claimed to be given, not to be rude, but indeed too much authority by the national councils of the national minorities. We've had countless amendments, to the fact that we went into these details that the then Minister of Human and Minority Rights convinced us that, among other things, Indeed, the national council of the national minority, either, so it does not have to give an opinion, for example, on whether classes will be exported for the education of others, i.e. requalifications, qualifications, etc. So that law goes to these details. You now say as minister that you must also comply with these laws in accordance with the applicable National Minority Council Act. As MPs who have disputed this law, we believe that you should have launched some initiative to amend some members in this now applicable law, not to go into some mistakes. According to the National Council of National Minorities, the national council of a certain national minority may, with 50%, take over the founding rights of a particular educational institution if there is a teaching in the language of the minority in that educational institution, or if the school has been declared a school of particular national interest to that national minority. That's what the law says. It is so well known that many schools have been declared in national mixed schools of particular national interest for the Hungarian national minority, regardless of what is happening in some schools in most schools in the Hungarian language, but in the Serbian language. At four of these schools in Subotica, at all primary schools in Kanjiža, Senti, Horgos, Adi, Mol, some in Vienna, etc. have been requested by the ministry and received founding rights by the National Council of Hungarians of 50%. We know that the Republic of Serbia, with its 50% founding rights, is funding all the costs of functioning the school. So we have shared founding rights, but when it comes to funding, it's not regulated, or at least I don't have that kind of knowledge. So, the Republic of Serbia is funding 100%, but it has only 50% of the founding rights. Furthermore, in the Strategy for Education of the National Council of Hungarians, the aim is that schools of particular national interest for the Hungarian national minority, not only take place in the Hungarian language, but also have education and education in the spirit of Hungarian culture. This isn't a dispute, and I don't want to talk to my colleagues about it at all. Last night, a colleague was just discussing this topic, and I thought I wouldn't talk to her about it, but I would talk to you. It is their right to even demand the extension of these certain rights, but it is the role of the government and the minister to think about it well, especially because funding has not been regulated. If in this article we talk about how public school exists and there are private schools, then I don't see what it is. I suppose it's public, because the national councils are the bodies that function. If someone needs a program to be realized, then it could be a private school, right? By then, he is obliged to submit a certificate to the ministry that he will approve or deliver. I got this information from people living in Vojvodina who are pretty worried about this condition, and then I hear from you yesterday that the roof law will say that national councils have founding rights in public schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18495	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck together submitted to the 14th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18496	Thank you. Dear Minister, the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we already discussed this subject yesterday, and the Honorable Minister said that the Ministry, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, accepted the amendment of the SVM parliamentary group, but on the so-called "Smalls of the Republic of Serbia". the roof law, or the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, relating to founding rights. I'll remind you, as we heard from the previous discussion, that on the basis of Article 11. The law on national councils of national minorities, national councils can either independently or with the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, or a unit of local self-government to establish institutions of education, education, student and student standards, as well as exercise of the rights and obligations of founders. It is the law that we passed in 2009, the current law and it is logical, if we are serious and if the legal system should be in line, if we are now passing laws in the field of education, that there is also this provision. We're probably in the same position here, since you accepted that amendment. It is unclear, however, why in this law on basic education and education, which we have actually heard, and I can repeat, Article 14 refers exactly to the division, to the criteria of how schools are distributed. According to the school founder, it can be public or private. Here are the founders of public schools – Republika Srpska, autonomous province and local self-government. We have suggested adding the national councils of the national minorities, precisely because we believe that this precise formulation or excessive explanation is necessary because, unfortunately, in practice, there are negative experiences on this subject, so it would not be good to leave out national advice here, and in the roof law to be included. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18497	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18498	With respect to the importance of the subject, as in the previous report, I must admit that here I have certain misunderstandings that I do not exclude can be quite private and persuasive from my limitations and ignorance. But I don't understand, and I'd like to ask for an explanation -- how would the advice of national minorities play the role of school founders? It is a form of self-government, but not territorial self-government, with no connection to some form of territorial self-government. Since he doesn't have his own budget, how would he exercise his founding rights and responsibilities? There's something I don't really understand about that. That's what I don't understand well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18499	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck submitted to the 15th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. In the words of Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18500	Thank you. Just for a little while, since the public probably didn't hear it. National councils have their own budget. That's the answer to the previous discussion. But this amendment of ours applies to school networks. Yesterday, on the Education Committee, I tried to explain how important it is and that this is also a problem in practice, of course, clearly, all those criteria mentioned in this Article 15 are related to school networks, such as facilities, the availability of education, and all are significant and logical criteria for the creation of that network. What is even more important is the possibility of obtaining education and training in the native language. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia allows so-called positive discrimination against members of national minorities. I must stress that I come from Zrenjanin, where the percentage of the Hungarian national minority is, unfortunately, due to demographic changes, becoming smaller and smaller. Currently in Zrenjanin, there is one single elementary school in which education takes place bilingually in both Hungarian and Serbian. There is concern, unless we protect these schools, that in the very near future they will connect with another primary school because the two primary schools are very close to each other. We believe that there would be a possibility, because yet this school has a tradition, etc., to lose to the quality and availability of education in the language of national minorities. We therefore consider it important to include as a criterion the possibility of obtaining education and education in the native language, when we talk about primary schools and the formation of a network of these primary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18501	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) To the title in front of Article 18 and Article 18 of the amendment, MP Ana Novkovic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18502	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 18 refers to schools for education of students with developmental disorders. We have suggested that Article 1 be deleted in this Article 18. I'll tell you why. Look at this definition. In school for education students with developmental disorders, children are educated regardless of the type of interference. So I have to point out a few things that come from this law. So the inclusive system right now looks like this. We have a primary school of inclusion, we have an inclusive school, an inclusive department. Still, and the law commented again, so the law provides for special departments within certain schools. I expected to be extremely honest that she would no longer exist in this law, although the reality is that she still exists in some schools, because it seems to me to be a step back. In the end, there are schools for education students with developmental disorders. Now, when you look at your definition, at school for education students with developmental disorders, children are educated regardless of the kind of interference. It means that we don't actually have an inclusion, that in these schools all the children who have all the problems in the development are going to school. So you deny that we have an inclusion in schools, which is not true. Of course there's an inclusion in school and of course we've moved one step away from it, but we seem to be making it this law backwards, but never mind, it exists and we can't comment on it. This is a pretty silly definition and that's the problem with this. Of course an absolutely MP group of DSS has nothing against inclusion, which you're imputing to me, and when you write me such an amazing explanation. You say this - the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 18(1) is a member. Proposal for a law in accordance with the concept of inclusive education and education of the Law on the founding of an education and education system. I'm telling you right now, it's out of line. You're saying in this law that we have an inclusion in schools, and here you're saying that only in special schools do we have an inclusion, actually, that we only have special schools where children are educated who are normally supposed to go to an inclusive school. You are still saying that this amendment is against this law and against the Education Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia by 2020. What can I tell you? I suggest you have it in your system. You're going to drink a silly definition and you're still imputing me not to accept the inclusion. That's what it says in the explanation. You're telling me that by law you've predicted the inclusion I'm defending you. So the only comment I can make on this is – oh, God. I really don't have another comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18503	Without intending to challenge the arguments that Mrs. Vojić Markovic made, I understand that aspect and that angle, but I still have to make one thought that it may not be against the fact that this provision stands, regardless of the kind of interference, that perhaps subjective understanding of who should be included in the process of education through the inclusion should be avoided and that we would have a clear situation. Of course, there is an interresor commission in the process of inclusion. Secondly, it determines exactly what kind of support is needed, which is the degree of interference, whether it's one another, or whether it's a physical disturbance and something like that. In any case, through that filter, surely those children who have a certain degree of interference, such a degree, which can be overcome, so to speak, through the process of education and education, with additional support. Of course that doesn't mean pre-inclusive and some serious cases, so to speak, or serious damage, when it comes to students. Of course, you have to stress that, because it's one certainty in the sense that in advance, by some subjective approach, someone finds -- that this can't, this can't. All students, or children with developmental disorders, can be involved, of course, through a certain procedure, prescribed by this law, and nothing is disputed. Those students who are with serious damage and who cannot go through a regular process of education and education, for them there are special schools, they have not been abolished. So, indeed, with the full respect of these arguments put forward by the MP, I still believe that this provision should remain and that it does not bother this member.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18504	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18505	It's a replica of this. I thank Mr. Mihajlovic for wanting to get involved in this, because I think this is a very important topic and we've all defined ourselves somewhere, when the past law was passed, to really identify ourselves as an inclusive society and to include the inclusion in regular education. First of all, I would disagree that it's a provision, because it's a very important attitude that says we don't have an inclusion. Please read. In school for education students with developmental disorders, children are educated regardless of the type of interference. So there's no need for an inter-resor commission to determine the type of interference and where to direct the child. So, all the kids, regardless of the kind of interference, go to this school alone, which is not true and is not in line with our system. It's just a stupid definition. Of course I can talk about what the interresor commission is doing right now, but it's not the essence of my amendment, Mr. Mihaylovic. The essence of my amendment is the stupidity of the definition. This is not a definition, but it is really very important and foolishly set definition because, on the basis of this, some less responsible interresor commission will say very simply – the 18th position of the 1st child has developmental disorders, has disability, is referred only to this school. No, I don't. It shouldn't be like that. After all, that I am right to confirm the UNICEFA's comment on this same definition. I know we talked about her on the board. I really think it's just that it hasn't changed its mind and it hasn't defined enough what we really wanted to say to this provision. That's why I think it's better to delete it, because based on this provision we're going to rule out the inclusion in our education. That's what it sounds like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18506	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Komic and Maja Vidinović. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18507	Thank you. Article 18, with the rubrum - school for education of students with developmental disorders, has a problematic first position of which is spoken by counterpart Milica Vojić Markovic, who, I repeat, reads – in school for education of students with development disorders, children are educated regardless of the type of interference. I didn't suggest erasing this article, I suggested a different formulation, but I'll talk about it later. For now, I find it interesting, as I have promised, to explain what the Government has sent as a text that does not accept this amendment. The reasons are – the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 18(1) is a member. Proposal for a law in line with the concept of inclusive education and education of the Law on the Fundamentals of Education and Education and the Strategy for the Development of Education in the Republic of Serbia by 2020. In order for this explanation to be in line with the 1st position, it could not be like this in the basic text of the law, but rather write – in the school for education of students with developmental disorders, children are educated regardless of the kind of interference and children without interference. Then we would have the right to, by not rejecting the reformed 1st position, say that it is in line with inclusive education and with the Education Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia by 2020. The government's refusal to reshape this position itself, accepting the amendment to Milice Vojic Markovic, or to accept my reformed position, shows a much bigger problem than a very badly written position in a member who defines a very important area. It's obvious here that the government doesn't understand that this attitude erases everything we've brought as inclusive education and strategy. Because the sentence that children are educated in school for education with distractions, regardless of the kind of interference, has never been and can't be in line with inclusive education. The sentence says – children with developmental disorders are educated in schools for children with developmental interference. Nothing else says that sentence. I can only ask you to make the efforts that this country has already put into one great change by introducing children with developmental disorders and disability in regular teaching, many different people, from various parties, many great experts who have engaged in inclusive education, please do not delete all this effort because of the primordial stubbornness that you write and reason, that this is in line with the Strategy. If it had institutional integrity, any MP you dare to write such an explanation, that it is in accordance with inclusive education, would seek not resignations and shifts, but much worse things than it is that someone loses a job or gets criticized. If we do not understand how important a part of human rights is inclusive education, and so with ease and superficiality of the change in the text of the 1st attitude we respond that this attitude is in line with inclusive education, we have a much bigger problem than we seem to have during the debate in particular, where some, we MPs, carefully reading the law, really want not to fail the efforts of many hardworking people who have worked for inclusive education. Someone here doesn't understand how important that is. Someone here doesn't understand what the strategy says. It's not me and it's not a colleague of Milica Vojic Markovic. We can express our regret that the amendment will not be accepted, and I will tell you that there is an amendment that reshapes the text and is in line with inclusive education and with the 2020 Strategy. My amendment, as well as my colleagues Maja Vidinović, reads – in regular schools, schools are educated by the rule and children with developmental and disability disorders, with additional support in education and in accordance with the individual educational plan, and are extremely educated in schools for education of students with development and disability when it is in the best interests of the child or student, based on the opinion of the Inter-Resor Committee, with the consent of parents or guardians. Schooling a child with developmental disorders in schools for children with developmental disorders and disability is an exception. That's the essence of the inclusion, and you're sending me an explanation that these schools exist for children with developmental disorders and you dare tell me it's an inclusion. I repeat, it is if in that sentence it were completely unnatural for children to go to those schools without developmental interference and without disability. The matter is so important and so much superficial lightness simply ignores how important it is for me to essentially cause concern, not the difficulties we have in applying the inclusion and all those who have been involved in involving children with developmental and disability in regular teaching know how much support my personal, me as members of the Committee on the Rights of the Child, MP groups of DS or anyone who needs parliamentary support in order for the inclusion to really be. As we have experience of all the resistances in primary schools and secondary schools, what expressions you find in people who call themselves teachers, teachers and teachers without any excuse, because children with developmental disorders are called ugly names, disdaining expressions. They organize parents so that such children would not still be part of the teaching process. They organise campaigns by continuing discrimination against children with development and disability. The idea that this congregation has made with great effort to include it because it is a civilization achievement, a human achievement. Please do not try to at least explain this article as a confirmation of inclusive education and the 2020 strategy because it is not. We'll understand each other if we stay stubborn with this member, and we'll understand each other the first time this same attitude in article 18 is the foothold of those who are against inclusive education, and it will be. Then a minister will come again and then some experts from the state administration will come again and then there will be different people who are making efforts to make inclusive education and who are quietly or openly fighting the inclusion. They'll come here to this assembly and we'll solve the problem together again. My suggestion is to avoid that problem. Let's leave what the government thinks, beyond any doubt, that the first position of this member is not in the bill of law because it can't be. If we don't understand that, then there will be many members who will be far less important than the one we're talking about. Since the committee still has until the end of the debate in particular and the right of business and jurisdiction to submit amendments, I ask the members of the committee and the chairman of the committee if it can make a majority yes, avoiding that two MPs from the DS Group have submitted an amendment, it was never important to us, proposing an amendment to which item 1 would be amended. The reason is that there are far more important things than personal impatience, personal ignorance, than the tendency to talk to one about inclusive education and to do another. There are far more important things than our political ideology, from our political networks and networks, and these are children with development or disability in Serbia. They're all that matters here. Please understand that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18508	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. I'll remind you of the provisions of Article 157. Rules of Procedure 6 that, in the time between the completed principled search and the opening of a search of the draft law, the committee in particular may submit amendments to the draft law. The board no longer has time since we started the search in particular, unfortunately to submit amendments. National MP Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18509	If these are business solutions, then we really have a problem and it won't be good if this kind of solution stays in the law. I think that is enough to be talked about by colleagues Vojić Markovic and Comic. I can understand that in defining Article 18 there have been some problems in terms of how to define a school for education of students with disabilities in development if you consistently apply the concept of social inclusion. In some future, this is really not the kind of school that should be. So it's not easy to define today what school is for education students with developmental disorders. It would be more elegant, if we already have in the system of that school in the years ahead of us that will still exist, perhaps to define the school as a school where children with developmental disorders and disability go to when it is in the best interest of those children, as decided by the Inter-Resor Committee. But the argument given by the government by refuting amendment colleagues Vojic Markovic and co-worker Komic see that it was not really a problem. You can see that there was no thinking and torture over the definition of what a school that should not exist in the future, if we are to consistently devote ourselves to the process of social inclusion in education, but unfortunately does not understand this process, because such a defined school for education of students with disabilities in development, where we say that this school is educated by children regardless of the kind of interference is completely contrary to social inclusion. The biggest problem with these schools is that they have also educated children who have problems because they do not know the language, Roma children, because they are poor and socially excluded, so they have a adjustment problem. If we define this broadly who can school here, everything we've done in social inclusion, and especially in social inclusion in the field of education, we've actually stepped down. Once again, I call on the government to consider whether this position does not have or to reform it in the way co-worker Komic suggested that children are first of all educated in regular schools, and especially when it is in their best interest, in the opinion of the Inter-Resor Committee, they are in schools for education of students with developmental disorders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18510	National MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18511	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I really fully support the amendment submitted by Col. Komic and he is meaningful and justifies the existence of such a formulated member in the law. Inclusion is one of our special issues in education. I can't agree with one part of her discussion, and I can't accept it at all, and that's what it says about educators who carry out the inclusion first of all. The present experience and burden that this has brought to schools, educational workers have been particularly put to the test, an absolutely missionary part of the work that educational workers have. Coming from an environment where they are highly responsible for this work, knowing colleagues who carry out the inclusion in their departments, I know that they have done so with more will, love and experience, expertise, it is not easy in this society, with all other accompanying segments of society. It's not easy at all socially devastated society, but they do. We're in serious trouble, ahead of the big test. On one of the exams, we went down as a society yesterday, and don't let us fall on this one. This is something that has been put before us as a serious temptation. Also, do not forget that there is an entire profession that deals with this kind of educational profile in society. So there are defecologists, and that's why there are these special schools. So what's ours, which is the society's answer, which must be the ministry's answer, that's what's in the best interests of the child, that's the student. That's why there's a commission. We here need to install this amendment into this article. I'm saying, I really support him, with the fact that I have to stand up for the educators who, at this point, have proved to be responsible when it comes to inclusion, as much as they could. It's a really demanding turn-on. You know, we brought inclusive children to people who weren't specifically prepared for that. It's not easy to prepare and amortize the department, the environment for such a situation. That's very demanding. That's what we'll talk about when we get to the number of students. Indeed, they did do so responsibly and proudly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18512	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18513	Dear Chairman, allow me to take part in the debate on this article 18. Right away, the name of school for education students with developmental disorders may not be appropriate. Why? You see, perhaps the title should read – the school for education and education. We are constantly trying to throw out the word "research" in all the articles of the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. I guess there's no one here, a teacher, a parent, without saying that our children are being raised and educated with developmental interference. We've ruled out education in advance, and this particular category of our children is an important education. I must point out, so as not to take my word later, that in many members, from the first member to the last member, the same mistakes are made. What are those mistakes? Some of the members include education and education. It's not a good category. It's not well defined. Now I'm being watched by teachers from pedagogy. They asked us to use the words "restraint and education", not "education and education", because it is not pedagogical and essential. Children are brought up first, and then they're educated. The kids go to preschools, then primary school. It works purely for the terminology that is depreciated in pedagogical practice and in pedagogical theory. So much for that. As for Article 18, I think you've set him up well, Mr. Minister, unlike my fellow MPs. We have little time to conduct this fundamental debate in the Serbian Assembly, but the main discussions are led by defecologists, water educators, social workers at symposiums. I'd get far different results than the way it's shown here. I'll be a little direct in the debate. How? Here, I'll read this first point of view of Article 18. In the school for the education of students, in my opinion, should stand – in the school for the training and education of students with disabilities in development schools children are educated regardless of the type of interference and that is a good attitude. I'm one of the school pedagogogogogists who's been running an inclusion, he's 30 years old, you know, as a young, early educator. You who call me a historian, I'm a historian and a pedagogue with fifty scientific papers from pedagogy. So I spent 30 years in one former republic of the former Yugoslavia. That republic has abandoned it. I'll tell you I'm up for it, but that's the way. Let's move on. I read on – to improve inclusive education and education of students with interference. You should put – the school for education and education of students with developmental disorders provides support for schools in the system of regular education and education. That attitude should remain. (President: Mr Atlagic, I must remind you that we are talking about the amendment between Mrs Gordana Komic and Maja Vidinovic. You've had a chance to submit the amendment as a People's MP, and now to talk about it, I think it's too late. We can't intervene with some new amendment right now. So return to the amendment text of these two Members of Parliament. I'm just talking about the amendment and I'm saying it's not acceptable, but the text of the law is acceptable. I speak for reasons why the amendment is not acceptable. You need to give an explanation. That is the essence of why the government, a representative of the government, gave such an explanation, as it did. I'll finish, I can see that many don't understand what this is about, with two sentences, if the chairman allows. If not, I can end this. Since you're not interrupting, I'll say. Please, I am not in favour of the amendment being accepted because a school with developmental disorders should be placed with students from the first grade of primary school to the eighth grade of primary school. I'll give you an explanation. This means that when children are enrolled in regular schools, which are not with developmental disturbances, then we have prescriptive testing and categorization. The Commission shall, if the child is categorized, refer to the school with developmental disturbances. If not, go to regular school. However, in the course of further education, in regular school, if it turns out that it cannot progress, that it is capable of regular school, we categorize it again, so we return it to school with developmental disorders or vice versa. I'm done with this. I see a lot of people don't understand what they're talking about, so I don't harass the MPs. So, or vice versa. It may be that the student goes to regular school, and in his progress he shows that he is not for regular school, then we refer him to the Department of Categorization and she decides whether or not he is. The inclusion is, and I end up, the notion of inclusion, ladies and gentlemen, when students with developmental disorders categorize that they are for regular school and then socialize with students at regular school. I know what you're throwing the accent at. Socialization. She is present in homes, and in schools, in the same environment, in the same local self-government. The kids are hanging out, if it's socialization. I have to say, don't be mad, some of them are involved in an inclusion project and you're raising fat money here at the expense of this. So that's one thing. Secondly, please, this may be very important, the right of students with developmental disorders is to go with students to regular school with other students, but it is also the right of all other students, they have the right to be brought up and educated according to their abilities. Now, how are you going to keep the child with the inclusion, which is the social behavior, and how are we going to have a mass of those who are having a psychological disturbance, to keep the inclusion, to socialize with 29 students in the same department? Who is this teacher who can do it and who are the teachers who can do it? I'm asking a question. I find this amendment unacceptable, that the ministry has assessed well. So we allow, in a way, a transition from one school to another, and in accordance with the psychophysical abilities of one student. That psychologists, pedagogues, defecologists follow and direct our children to schools with developmental disorders and vice versa, from these schools to regular schools, including, as some call it. It's a normal process. That's what our pedagogical practice has been doing for 30 years, and I don't see any newspaper. It's just weird to me what a newspaper it is. Newspapers are a problem if he's a low-intelligence student, associative behavior. Inclusion translated into a regular school teacher cannot rule with him in any way. Unfortunately, I went to look at cases like that at school. I agree with my colleague that teachers are not prepared for that kind of work. I support this proposal from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18514	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18515	I have to say that I wanted to limit my exposure to the support of Mrs. Komic and her amendment because, first of all, the formulas that exist in the law are very often an excuse not to do something most at school, for the reasons of these or those, that I don't get into it, doesn't want to do it. Some times it is difficult, such as the process of inclusion, which is a major challenge for society and schools especially, but which, I must say, to my surprise and admiration, is still taking place in our school system with relative success. However, previous exposure has shown me that it is a deep misunderstanding, what an inclusion is, and how much resistance we will still have in trying to equalise all citizens of Serbia by the rights they have and that they can exercise those rights regardless of the degree of their disability, disability and that it is for every praise to the efforts of the state and the school system to do so as best for them. The previous exposure introduced a low-intelligence category as a criterion for separation into special institutions, which is an interesting criterion, because there would be then many who probably don't feel like they belong to that group. I think the problem of inclusion should be considered most seriously, that this amendment should be accepted, because it contributes to the fact that this process is actually implemented without giving up any possibility to anyone, that it gives up the process because it gives the husband a small opportunity to do so. We had this amendment, I'm glad he was accepted, to change the mention of special schools in the general law. It's in that direction, and I don't see why there would be any resistance to making those kinds of adjustments in the formulation in this article, which prevents anyone from sending a student to a school for people with disabilities, i.e. for any reason. Disrupted in development. By accepting this amendment, and it can be accepted on the basis of discussions that are being conducted here, it does not have to go as a special amendment to the committee, which has also been discussed, I think would contribute to the success of the process of inclusion in our education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18516	Thank you. As I am full of a list of speakers, I will read the order of MPs: Ana Novković, Milan Kovacevic, Gordana Comić, Nebojsa Zelenović, Sasa Milenić. You, Mrs. Comic, wanted a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18517	Thank you. The exposure we've heard from our SNS colleagues is paradoxical from the first to the last letter, in addition to my amendment. So he reads the first attitude, except he failed to read that there was no more categorization. You know, it's not in force. Except it's been omitted here to applaud the presentation of a MP who separates children from low-intelligence children and other children. That, Minister, is the consequence of this first attitude, that's how they read it. That's why everything I hope is not the attitude of the parliamentary group and is not the attitude of the SNS, which is moreover, I am sure of it, but the stenogram notes that the MP is talking about categorization that does not exist, that he is talking about children with disabilities in a way that would have to be inadmissible, not on a public scene, anywhere, in every place, and that he does not understand at all how much he speaks in favour of accepting amendments that would make such an argument impossible. All of us who listen in this way when we speak to children with disabilities and developmental disorders, we can have a transfer of shame because such a public word is allowed and because it is freedom of speech. It is freedom of speech and that freedom of speech which, by its essence, is proud of its own ignorance. It's as much as you want, and it's not such a rare thing to talk about important topics as inclusive education, but it can't be both. You can't talk – we are for inclusive education without you knowing... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... that categorization does not exist and that you are for the Memorandum of Social Inclusion, as a European party, and that you are talking about low-intelligence children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18518	Thank you. National MP Marko Atlagic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18519	I have no intention of answering these questions to Mrs. Komic, but I recommend that she publish her discussion in teaching magazines. About whether or not someone is sharing children from the aspect of children's rights to higher or smaller rights, it's out of my mind, and I didn't mean it. The rights of children, those with developmental disturbances and those without interference, are the same, but consistent with their individual abilities. It's very well known by educators who work with children. The right of a child to raise and educate is a right, but according to his abilities. Those rights come from rights and obligations. Therefore, the school makes individual programs, so there are schools with developmental and regular school disorders, etc. As they cross and don't cross, we could discuss it. I note that we had a similar situation in grading students. He's 30 years old how we left the grade, so we introduced him. So does this category. The way I think about it, I end up with this Madam Chairman, thinking 99% of direct educators of education and education. I'm glad there's an advocate on the other line, so to speak, but time will tell. Time is the best factor and the best judge. Time in the past has shown, will show in the present and will show in the future. I really want to translate the debate into one level of expertise, not here in legislative and administrative. I think the legislator took care of... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... about the past achievements of pedagogical ideas and the present and that he well added to Article 18, to the satisfaction of all students, and those with developmental disturbances and those in regular schools.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18520	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. Sasa Milenić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18521	On the basis of the first item of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, I point out the need for the respect of Members of 107, or the dignity of the National Assembly. In addition to having the right to create a larger pedagogue, each individual, than a professional pedagogue, and what everyone can know about the inclusion of more than a man who has been involved for years, it is part of a political colorite, it is unacceptable to underestimate the elemental level of information, that, of course, children, among other things, categorize, share, check both on the basis of intelligence and, of course, since the world and the century, since science, it is because there are children with a sick low degree of intelligence and support for this disturbance in development. If you are uninformed about this subject, that there are such interferences in the development of intelligence that pose a disturbance in the development of which society deals, diseases that are traditionally called dullness, obesity etc., idiotism, in fact, are disproportionately developed intelligences and these are the elements of the science of the development of child personality. It cannot be declared a political issue.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18522	Srdjan Milivojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18523	Madam Chairman, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. In addition to the Rules of Procedure, it has never occurred that the following members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia: Article 20 concerning the restriction of human and minority rights, Article 21, which says discrimination is prohibited in Serbia, Article 22. The RS Constitution guaranteeing protection of human and minority rights, Article 23. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia which guarantees dignity and free development of a person, Article 25. The RS constitution guaranteeing the inviolability of physical and psychological integrity. Please do not insult the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in this building voted by the Constitution along with the citizens of Serbia. Please, you are in the temple of democracy, do not insult the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the intelligence of all citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18524	Thank you. Does anyone else have any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? National MP Borko Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18525	Article 106 is hurt because, don't yell, I know you're due in July, so you're nervous. What's the fact, the chairman, is that everyone has the right to a political stance and a comment on the basis of the amendments, that's normal. Unfortunately, however, one part of this previous discussion has been used to insult a large number of Serbian citizens in the most harsh way possible. The dignity of this Assembly has been injured by the fact that civilizational inadmissible categorization is being carried out and that you have allowed the MP to say that the child who has been disturbed in the development is an associated child and that what, as an association, must be isolated. Everybody knows that, you have no idea, he says, and that's why you should keep your mouth shut. I know they recognize each other. It is the emerging parliamentary group waiting for its leader to return. But they need to make sure that the books didn't stop in 1965 to be printed, to read something, to see what world they live in, that what some other people with mustaches in Germany said and make sure they don't insult the people sitting in this congregation and the parents of those children.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18526	Please, Mr Stefanovic, I think that every MP should have responsibility for what he said in his seat. And now you've said the same thing you shouldn't. Please, let's get back to the subject, because of the seriousness. Here you are, Mr. Atlagic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18527	I'm referring to article 106. Rules of Procedure. The previous speaker really wasn't talking about the agenda point. (President: The previous speaker responded for a word regarding the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please follow. I think the 106th member hurt. I'll give you an explanation. The first attitude speaks – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is conducted. Please, the previous speaker mentions the mustache and the leader, some Hitler. What's he talking about? Please warn the previous speaker not to do it anymore. Now he finds it appropriate, he's been gone since this morning, the leader of the parliamentary group, he's in now, he doesn't know what it is, he's now come to the assembly. Now he's come to the congregation and he has no idea what we're discussing. I'm talking about Mr. Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18528	Thank you. Is there anyone else reporting any injuries to the Rules of Procedure? Mr. Milivojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18529	Madam Chairman, I am now responding to members 27 and 32. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly, or vice presidents, is said to represent the National Assembly, convene its meetings, chair them and do other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. I think the universal law is the roof of all the laws in this country of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I'll read you Article 25 again. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, for those who do not even know the Constitution and want to interpret the Rules of Procedure. The physical and psychological integrity of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is unhurtful. Don't do this. This is the basis for prosecution. (Chairman: Mr. Milivojevic, please stick to the injuries of the Rules of Procedure. I can't, really. This has something to do with the Constitution. It has nothing to do with the Rules of Procedure. (President: So you honor me for hurting the Rules of Procedure. I'm just warning you that if you continue, I'll give you a warning. ) But, Madam Chairman, I ask you not to allow such advances in parliament, to use your business limitations and to defend together with us the constitutional principles, principles and letter of law written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We can't get past this. You can give me a warning, but you must understand, Serbian citizens are offended by these discussions. This is the basis for taking away words, for using your parliamentary opportunities, to deny them insult us, both the Constitution and the Republic of Serbia and its citizens in this way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18530	Please, let's get back to the agenda. The word is made by National Ambassador Ana Novković. Please raise the Rules of Procedure, so I can know you're advertising the Rules of Procedure, since it's full of lists. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Sign up again for breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18531	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I'm sorry if it's not visible enough that I raised the Rules of Procedure. I am advocating Article 107: The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly, but think - and our entire society. Excuse me, please, there are all sorts of qualifications here. Here it is said that it is not appropriate to the National Assembly, and it does not respect the elemental fact that this is the 21st century and that the science of pedagogy is particularly, I am also a educator, very advanced in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18532	National MP Judita Popovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18533	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I've reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure five, ten minutes ago, but I can't get a word of it. Normally, I'm calling for a violation of article 107, which is dignity. So, the dignity of this parliament is injured when allowed, without any reaction from the chairman to a speech by MPs from its parliamentary club, whose speech can be characterized as propagating eugenic ideas. It is the fact that a good part of the population is being insulted in this House, and it seems to me that one good step has been taken in terms of civilizational fluids, that this part of the population that has certain developmental disturbances is no longer invisible and no longer marginalised. With one move, with one speech in this House, all of this is actually analyzed, and we are going back to that minus phase where everything is relativised and where it is possible for these fascist ideas that have significantly reversed us during the 1990s as well. But nothing will surprise us, since we know that a large part of those sitting in parliament today was an integral part of this very policy and this system of values.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18534	The objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure concerns the content which the chairman should define freedom of speech, which in this case is extremely difficult. Given that I have now taken over the presidency, I assume that in the day of the vote we will declare the injury pointed out by the MP Judita Popovic. I ask all of us to choose our words carefully as we speak to each other or as we take our freedom to talk about third parties. Is anyone else reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18535	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm advertising Article 103 and Article 109. Under number one, in accordance with Article 103, any MP may advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure, except that he cannot do so if the infringement of that member has already been advertised. So, Article 107, which the previous speaker advertised in breach of the Rules of Procedure, has already been pointed out several times. The article of 109 says, "A reminder is given to the People's Messenger, so they are listed, and somewhere in the seventh row, if he uses swearing and abusive expressions." If anyone here claims to be promoting or representing fascist ideas in this assembly, he has in some way qualified a number of MPs to represent these fascist ideas here, or propagating them. In such situations, I think the obligation of the chairman is to, under Rule 109, give notice to the MP. And before this MP, there were those who mentioned various mustaches from Germany, etc., associations were more than clear, but here it is explicitly said that fascist ideas spread in this assembly. Regardless of the differences between MPs, I do not agree, and I believe that the majority of colleagues and what has been presented by the previous speaker are very offensive not only for one parliamentary group but for the entire assembly that is sitting here today, even for those MPs who are not present here right now. So, this qualification that the Assembly or a certain part of the Assembly or a certain group represents fascist ideas and that this is how this parliament is performed, and that is why I demand that my advertising of the Rules of Procedure be voted on in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18536	Two minutes. An infringement of Article 109 which implies the obligation of the chair to give notice has not been made. Your position that the chairman should have made a warning, I can only ask that we all listen more carefully and that all of what we do not want to hear from others then we do not say to others, so it will be much better for everyone. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? National MP Sasa Milenić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18537	I'm asking for an explicit apology, which means nothing to me that could be imposed from the presidency's position. If I was too free, too liberal, too liberal, I'd learned such remarks to listen to about myself, but being a fascist, which is not a political qualification, but since World War II, but something a lot of niggers than that, I've heard this for the first time in my life for any gesture... (President: People's Parliament, would you please let us all hear which member of the Rules of Procedure is injured because you received a word after the injury of the Rules of Procedure? You can also take 107 as a violation of Parliament's dignity... (President: I cannot take, MP, but when you seek and receive a word on the basis of Article 103 to warn the chairman or chairman which member is injured, then you should say which member is injured. ) In the first position of Article 103, I advertise that 107 of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, but the sanctions that you might be able to give to that effect do not provide the necessary satisfaction, but a personal apology, about the reasons for such a request in the discussion of the amendment. (President: National MP, you are also required in accordance with Article 103 to explain the injury. The explanation that you're requesting someone's personal apology cannot be accepted. ) The fact that you have reached the intended role of the chairman does not mean that you have the right not to hear that I have used the term by replicating fascist views as addressed, clearly from the context of me. I didn't learn that to hear about my attitudes, and I think it's extremely malicious and without any basis.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18538	People's MPs, there's a first time, so I thank you for your remarks, and I ask you to respect that the explanation of the breach of the Rules of Procedure can't be a request for a personal apology, and I also ask you not to violate the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, that you take the word when you receive it on the basis of parliamentary provisions. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (No) National MP Ana Novkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18539	Thank you. Although it's a little hard to talk about the amendment now, after a discussion like this. As a long-standing practitioner, I mean that the inclusion in our school is reality and that there is no dilemma. It must be further worked on its consistent implementation. We need to support teachers who work at school because they are truly safe working on the inclusion, very often with sticks and ropes and very often without anyone's support. School and teachers can't be left alone, they need absolute support to really involve themselves. On the other hand, I think there should be schools for education students with developmental disorders. We have such schools today, and I know that these schools also have extraordinary staff, that they work extremely well, work to involve children in extracurricular activities, to engage in society and for their independence. Of course, it is necessary to give the parents of those children first an alternative, whether they want their child to go to such a school. I also believe that with the definition of school in item 1, if there is a dilemma, it should be clearly defined when a child can be enrolled in school, as it is now. So, if it's in his best interest, with the consent of the Interresor Commission and, of course, the consent of the parents. It's simple now, but if we all have a dilemma here, I don't see a reason why it might not be legally defined. So the parents of such children should have an alternative in terms of a school like this, if they think it's in the best interest of his child, that they have that possibility, but simply, if there is a dilemma and a fear, then I think it should be added in this attitude, although it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18540	Two minutes and 20 seconds were used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP Nebojsa Zelenovic, just sign in, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18541	I thank the chairman. I fully support the amendment of my colleague Maja Vidinović and Gordana Komic, and I really think that we are now at one turning point, so let's decide whether one rule that should have been a rule for our entire system, which is a systemic matter of the commitment of this society to inclusive education, to continue to be a rule or to become an exception. Please don't make this an exception and let's drop all the political story and everything that's happened in the last hour. So let's think about the kids. If we continue the path we've been going so far, and that's the principle of inclusive education as a rule, we'll give the kids a chance to get in the way of development, so we'll give our kids a chance to look at everything that makes our lives. If we make an exception of this, we'll have problems and children with developmental disorders won't have a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18542	One minute used by a time-authorized representative. The Messenger of the people, Sasa Milenić, and the people's letter of Hope Kolundji.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18543	The President-in-Office, I speak by amendment in the discussion, but since I think we have touched very important topics, I will be happy to use the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group, because the topic is extremely important. The controversy over this topic has shown the essence of not knowing the pedagogical practice that is very long and old in our country's territory because we are one of Europe's more humanised societies on these issues and many European countries with the highest standards in respect of child rights have learned from us. The educational system of our country has a respectable tradition on this matter. Only the existence of specialized schools for children distracted by development is the ambition of a society that goes in the same direction as the programme of inclusion. The problem of inclusion is relative news because it goes one step further, respects the importance of the school environment itself in the process of socialising the child. Is the existence of a specialized teaching school for children who are based on the measurement of their ability to study in specialized schools, is it sometimes better for them in the socialization process not to be in specialised schools? The controversy that has taken place is fundamentally pedagogical. Believe it or not, political views have just shown all the hypocrisy of our political scene and what I was talking about in the principle of this topic, which is a social lie in which a educational process is required to conceal or simulate how all the lies of this society have managed to preserve the perception of consistency. What's the deepest social lie? The deepest social lie is that it is in the interest of children with developmental disorders that all of them are in the programme of inclusion mixed with children who do not have specific pedagogical requirements in the follow-up. It is a lie based on the naked interest of capital not to single out money for special care for those children but to leave without a hunch and concern for their interest, for their fate, and under the false mask of humanity that there is no difference in the needs between these children all to the harsh mechanism of the market with which, and some unfortunately with such hypocritical care without any chance. The programme of inclusion is extremely positive because it is a step further but the open question is whether for all children distracted by development. That is why there is an inter-resor committee that does not once but during monitoring the process give certain assessments and views. I think it's a misunderstanding that it's mostly about intelligence as a psychic function or whatever it's called, the ability to measure that degree of distraction. I think it's simply about uneducatedness, that people don't know the specific psychological pedagogical problem that it's about, and then it's from one colloquial, quack of an interested semi-cafan ambience that intelligence is considered to be something that is human recognition or non-recognition, and not one measurable psychological function that we unfortunately don't all have, as well as other functions, developed to the same extent, and that some have a problem that society shouldn't remain indifferent, deaf and blind. This particular concern is expressed through essential interest, not through form, and we found a magical formula of soulless market mechanism – you insult them equality, and it doesn't matter that their chances in the perspective are relatively different than everyone must in the name of false, hypocritical equality to be hidden in the same soulless school with a row of benches, a row of student meat and placed on the market, a completely different level of competitiveness. The programme of inclusion is extremely useful and not a small number of children, it can really be helpful, but therefore it is necessary special attention and I am in the debate over this topic talking about the contribution that local self-government can give, just as it has done in Kragujevac, financing the assistant's programme, continue, because in Kragujevac continues, because of the existence of assistants who are not only discharging the employment bureau by unemployed educators, but rather the actual concrete help in continuing, I say, by realising such a programme in this project is progressing, but what special attention I am drawing, it's perversion of reality, completely deviating, where a time of work, rhetoric – political manipulation, a pedagogue can turn out ignorant, a man who has been conducting a programme of inclusion, a fascist who doesn't know about the news of ideicism, that we don't have the same problems that people who have an equal level of interest, that we can't be able to be able to be able to deal with the problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18544	A total time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used, so it is now available to the parliamentary group of the URIs for 33 minutes. The word is a folk letter from Nada Kolundzija, followed by the National Messenger Milan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18545	Mr. Minister, I think that really, by reading what you're showing while listening to these discussions, you believe in all the arguments that this amendment should be accepted. So I believe that the best will of the ministry is to allow the process of inclusion to be ensured and that through the law we will remove everything that gives opportunity for different interpretations, which is, and what is not an inclusion. So here we can now talk about it and it's really a matter of political differences and understanding, what is equality before the law and what is a constitutional obligation that every citizen in this country must have the same right and have the same chance. If someone on the market will show a greater ability afterwards, it has nothing to do with what we're talking about. At the very beginning, we must not exclude it from the possibility that, in accordance with its own capacities and capabilities, it achieves what its capabilities are and does not exclude and further obligation of the state to those who cannot because of the limitations they have, continue to take care of them. Mr. Minister, I'm asking you best not to continue this debate that really faces us with some kind of, in my opinion, frightening thinking about who is qualified in an intellectual sense like, as we've heard, a moron or I don't know what other ugly expression. The most beautiful thing I ask you to do is, by accepting this amendment, if there is a need to change something in the amendment, the applicants of the amendment will surely, in agreement with you, make that amendment, if you accept it, the committee can schedule a session and that by accepting that amended amendment, we will indeed remove the possibility of having a debate in this way in the society, because you are now responsible for it. You will now show whether this government and your ministry understand that in our society there is a deep misunderstanding of this problem and a danger that because of such misunderstanding, we are questioning the whole process of inclusion from day to day, year to year, from class, from educator to educator. So this law defines society for whether the process of inclusion is an arbitrary matter of understanding certain political factors, or whether this society shows maturity and willingness to do so, by making it impossible for everyone to misread what an inclusion is. I ask you once again to make this effort and really take responsibility, to exclude such debates in society. Just by accepting this amendment, you will exclude from society these debates that are insubordination of the Constitution and other constitutional norms, they are indeed for the other side of the civilization range, which I believe Serbia has already reached, but listening to some, I fear, is inclined to slide backwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18546	Three minutes and 40 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used, 81 minutes are available. The People's MP Milan Kovacevic has the word, followed by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18547	Dear Mr. Minister, the respected representatives of the ministry, I had no intention of discussing it, but the profession I was in education for 27 years, I was also a teacher, professor, school director, school education inspector, and by the circumstances the daughter was a graduate defecologist – oligofrenologist. I come from Sremska Mitrovica, who has a sophisticated school, as we call it today, a school of education with special needs or distractions, or as it used to be called, a special school, and it doesn't matter at all, is essential. The same people and those same children are educated, both in primary and secondary education. I volunteered to discuss exactly the contribution of this amendment proposed by my colleague, because to put it another way, I couldn't show up and defend my position among my colleagues, because, as I said, I am the personification of my profession. I haven't discussed fiscal registers in some period, whether or not someone needs to, but I think this is a very important topic today and, of course, this amendment. I'm appealing to the Ministry's representatives, and I hope there are people on the team who deal with this profession, and I'm just going to name a few facts. I don't think anyone's been seriously involved in this problem, starting with pedagogical assistants, which we don't have enough training at the moment, and we want to put these kids in regular schooling. I think we've got inter-resor commissions dealing with it, and we need to deal with it. I am a parent myself, no matter how often I am an educator, I often get subjective when our children are concerned, so I have the opportunity to tell you that I make very often decisions both as a director and as a class elder, as a teacher, that you should give an opinion, especially when we have introduced that descriptive assessment with butterflies etc. Now I'm a little off topic. I didn't want to discuss the law. I don't think it's good, I should tell my friend right now, and the law needs to be changed very quickly, starting with the election of directors, etc., but when I've already called and said so, because the selection of directors has been standing since 2000. In 2000, the directors were attacked by crisis headquarters, as if they were the foundation and lever of the ruling system in some period. But here's why he kept it, I don't know why, he'll probably say it sometime. I don't think the director's choice is good. the very way of funding that is different from primary education, to high school. As far as personal assistants are concerned, someone here is throwing himself at those expressions. Personal assistants are people who bring kids to school, make sure they give them lunch, bring him in, keep him safe, etc. We have, on the other hand, institutions that specialize in these things. We have colleges that explicitly educate oligofrenologists, like the top of the peak, and that's the only diploma that can do without a nostrification, it seems to me to go over, which is highly appreciated. We now create and create teaching assistants, just so we can get into schools, so my fellow teachers can say, mix both grandmothers and frogs. I appeal once again that we really think maturely about this amendment, just because it gives one sentence that a parent can, that is, not without the consent of a parent to be put into this school for a system of education with special needs, but that an inter-resor commission and profession must give their opinion and opinion and it makes a recommendation to the parent and gives one freedom to decide parents. Practice has shown that parents realize that they are doing a bear service to their child when they put it on a 45 - minute course and with children who have extraordinary talent for regular follow-up. Imagine, class lasts 45 minutes. To be honest, there's always five minutes to pinch. Five minutes to enroll, five minutes to check homework, 30 minutes to class. For a teacher or teacher to devote a minute per child, that's 30 minutes. He doesn't have time to deal, unfortunately, with those kids, whether they're one or two or three. We're doing a bear favor. I think it's defined well by this amendment, and it needs to be accepted, because it gives freedom and creativity to the one whose child it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18548	Used six minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18549	Dear Chairman, I'm glad to see you in that place and I hope that will be more common in the future. I'm very glad that I was part of the Assembly that passed the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination a few years ago. Now you can see how important that is. I am proud to be a member of the DS who understands problems in society and who not only declares herself to join the EU, but also understands European values. Some have stolen our program, so now they think it's enough to understand all the problems we have in society. I remind you that firstly, when we win Vidovdan, the first thing to do is a memorandum of social inclusion and therefore it is necessary to support this amendment by my colleagues, Maja Vidinović and Gordana Comić, because it is very important to understand in society what the problems of people dealing with this area are and why discrimination must be prevented at every step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18550	Used a minute and 20 seconds from the MP's time. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18551	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I absolutely support the amendment submitted by my colleague Gordana Comic and Miss Maja Vidinovic. I'm glad that word of support comes from the SNS when it comes to this amendment. I really urge you to accept this amendment. No one could choose who would be born, but he could certainly choose what kind of man he would become. It is the obligation of society and the state in which someone is born to help him become a man and to feel human. I can't help but overstep and keep quiet just a part of certain discussions that didn't contribute to this amendment, which were intended to be criticised and without the intention of opening up some broad philosophical debate, but I remind you that two great men once walked this country. One was Plato, living about 427 to 347 years before the new era. The second was his disciple Aristotle, living from 384 to 322. Now, let me ask you a question, but to answer honestly, those who had these racial theories, what are you angry about when your being and your essence speak from you, and we recognize it? Don't be angry about it. Aristotle was a great philosopher of his time, but his theory served the Nazis for the racial theory of society. Don't let it offend you that you may not know and that it's some hole and void in your education. They shared all the people on the planet that they were destined to be something, so at Plato the ideal state had three divisions - philosophers, soldiers and slaves, and Aristotle went one step further. He recognized only two stocks – the management stock and slave stock. He formulated his premise of slaves so that being a slave was something in someone's nature. After that, this theory of a racial state has experienced its very dangerous evolution throughout history, but don't think that someone thinks that the people who accepted this theory are unintelligent. Some of the most intelligent people on the planet are the creators of the greatest and most massive crimes, the most terrible crimes. That race state theory, which you didn't recognize, some of you, in your presentation, is very dangerous. That someone destined to be mentally or emotionally disabled is a very dangerous theory. I'm undermining again, everyone could have been born the way he was born, but it's on it, but above all in the state to allow him to be human and become human. So don't be angry when we point something out to you, because some dangers come from ignorance and some from evil intentions. It's no shame if someone doesn't know something. Evil intent can be much more dangerous. I am absolutely convinced that everything that has been mispronounced about this amendment to stem from ignorance. I'm not going to say uneducated, but probably out of ignorance. Don't be mad at those who know when they tell you you don't know. On the contrary, try to learn. I said – don't learn much from our mistakes, try to learn from colleges, but don't buy diplomas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18552	Four minutes and 30 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18553	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. Let me say a few words about the amendment and the issue of inclusion. Namely, by passing a law on the basis of the 2009 education and education system, Serbia has defined that inclusion is part of the education system, and I must tell you that in recent years we have suffered criticism that we have gone into the process unpreparedly and that the results are not satisfactory. We of the Ministry of Education, on the contrary, claimed that we did all we needed for the inclusion to be an integral part of the educational process. We've expanded teachers' education. We have done everything possible to allow as many children with special needs as possible to be part of the regular education system and special schools as such to disappear, and to allow each child to be part of the regular education system. I'm not saying that everything was ideal, but thanks to the great sacrifice of educators, people who work in education, many of the issues and problems that were opened during the application of the inclusion have been solved. I have to say, we had a lot of support in our parents, too. These good results, which we have achieved in the education system for the implementation of the inclusion, UNICEF has recognised and promoted us over the past few months as one of the countries in this part of Europe that has produced significant results. We don't think to stop. Of course, we want to move on. I had one situation, I may have jumped out, but I want to tell you that, I also told the members of the Committee, that only two years ago I had a suggestion, or one interesting opinion I heard from colleagues from one of the countries in the region, who is a member of the European Union, that the inclusion will never succeed and that it is very difficult for them, which is very interesting in relation to the question of the status of that Member State of the European Union and the obligation to apply all documents relating to the system of education, and then, of course, to include. I have to tell you that there are problems and there will probably be problems, but we do have a good will to address the issues we face in the best way, in the interests of the child, in the interests of education. I think that we also showed this relationship according to the co-operation with UNICEF and in the preparation of the law, which is a little bit talked about, and during the debate on the law in principle, when we had a Committee on the Rights of the Child, when we accepted a number of amendments, or agreed with the Committee that, whether they were submitted by the MPs, whether they formulate themselves as amendments to the Committee. We want to further improve the system of inclusion, i.e. inclusion in the education system. If you're looking at article 18, you'll see that it refers to a school for education of students with developmental disorders. By reading only that member, you can draw one conclusion. If you look at the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, Article 98, paragraph 7, then any doubt on the good intentions of the promoter falls into the water. I'm saying this for the reasons that many of the things that are held in the PSO, and I remember the 2009 criticism, that the law is too much and that it regulates many areas and that many questions should be an integral part or a special part of the Law on Fundamental Education and Education and the Law on secondary education and education, so we found ourselves in a situation to find one environment. Maybe we did it, maybe we didn't. I am absolutely at my disposal that we may not have found a measure for this, but if you look at Article 98, paragraph 7, then you can see that this amendment is essentially accepted, because in Article 7. The Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System states: "A school for education of students with development disorders can be enrolled by children based on the opinion of the Interresor Commission on the need to provide additional educational, health and social support with the consent of parents." I think this attitude seven. The law solves the essentials of this amendment. We're absolutely on track for what the amendment contains in the second part, because it's already in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18554	National MP Sasa Milenic wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18555	On the basis of Article 103, I'm advertising a violation of the 107th Dignity of the National Assembly. I am afraid, Madam Vice President, that my previous discussions have not been taken seriously, because it is not about day-to-day political persecution, but about the civilizedly relevant topics that we have touched. That is how it went down to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Aristotle qualified as one of the founders of fascism, which is terrifying. Just so it doesn't go to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia without... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18556	People’s MP or contact how this view of Aristotle compromises the reputation of the National Assembly or you will force me to apply all the views of Article 103. So the explanation can't be used instead of replication. If you want a replica, look for a replica and you will be given the word, but the abuse of the Rules of Procedure is unacceptable, so please explain what a violation of the reputation of the National Assembly consists of, because it is hardly possible for us to do so with Aristotle. Sign up again. Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18557	I thank you for your honesty when you admit it's hard for you to understand why you're teaching Aristotle...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18558	People's MP, you're not allowed to say what you think is happening to other people. I warn you that if you continue to abuse the rights given to you under the Rules of Procedure, which is that you abuse Article 103's position to speak when you didn't get your word and to disobey the regulation which, during Article 103, through all attitudes, clearly points to how you should explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I will be forced to give you, on the basis of Article 3, a warning measure. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I cannot agree on this amendment with some discrimination that certain MPs of a certain parliamentary group are allegedly arguing for, and so am I. Discrimination can be diverse. I wanted to go to a football school at the Partisan and the Star. However, my abilities and abilities of many at the time were not such that we could physically and mentally reach that level of development at that time to enroll the football school in "Red Star" and "Partisan". In time, some of my comrades who stayed in the so-called low-class leagues succeeded, thanks to the coach's special attention, to reach... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18560	People's MP, with full respect for sports history, I ask you to talk about the subject of the agenda, and the subject of the agenda is an amendment to Article 18 and a law that does not deal with sports activities. So I'm asking you about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18561	I'm trying in a specific way to explain it. Obviously, you have two Rules of Procedure. One applies to your parliamentary group, and one to the parliamentary group I belong to. (President: National MP, there is a single Rules of Procedure in which it clearly states that you are talking about the agenda. Sports activities aren't on the agenda. ) If I'm talking about inclusion, I'm saying that some of my friends later, thanks to the special attention of teachers, have managed to join those who at that time could not, at the moment they were not able enough, have failed to qualify and have failed to start together, in a certain way have been discriminated against. So discrimination can be positive. You can isolate someone, pay full attention to them to reach a certain level of knowledge during their education, and that thanks to that achievement and special schools, special schools have managed to qualify and thus join some children with whom they have not had a chance to do so at some point. If you associate it with a group before time, if you can't deal with them enough, it can be devastating for that child that's involved. So, in that degree of schooling, if he enters a competition too early, and school is some kind of competition, then it's not good for only a child who joins other children who are at that point in some kind of intellectual advantage over him. It's not about discrimination or fascism, and it's about what happens to these kids when there's a test? Isn't testing some kind of discrimination? So, not all children who graduate from school can enroll in any high school they want, but must, on the basis of their intellectual abilities, then, properly check the definitions for schools that at that time their learning, their intellectual abilities are allowed on the basis of some checks. So I fully agree with this party that represented this position that there is no kind of discrimination, and in particular there is no fascism, and I am particularly offended, because my people have too many times been a victim of fascism that I would have to endure in the way that I present it in this assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18562	Three minutes used by the MP's group. Is anyone else answering for a hearing? The People's Parliament of Hope Kolundji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18563	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, I don't think your argument is enough to justify the fact that you are not prepared to accept this amendment. So the quote from the Law on the founding of the system of education and education is also decided – that it can be entered. What is the essence of this amendment is that in the process of inclusion, we expect a step in the way of enabling every child to be educated in regular schools, and that they can attend schools for children with special needs with a particular opinion and consent, etc. It's just that if by law we say that every child has the right to go to school in regular schools, and that he can do extremely well, we're going to step into inclusion. If it stays this way, as it is now suggested, we're on the same level. So, first of all, we refer children to schools like this for education of children with special needs, and only to schools for children's education.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18564	One minute and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18565	It's just, I have to react. And I'm going to react the way others reacted when I said a sentence or a child's attitude with special needs. They're not with any particular needs, they have the same needs as we do, only from meeting in another way, and I'm asking you to use them properly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18566	Twenty seconds used by the parliamentary group. Does anyone else want a word in search of the particulars of Article 18, i.e. the amendment that was submitted together by the MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic? If not, we move on to the next amendment. New member name and new member 18a. National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajic, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Zarko Korac together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member and a new member of 18a be added after article 18a. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18567	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, Mr Minister, the honourable representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the light of why the amendment of the LDP MPs was not adopted states that the only reason was that the amendment of the SPS MPs was adopted, and it is said that it was essentially the same amendments. If not only is the essential content the same but it is identical I see no reason, rational reason why one amendment was adopted and the other was not adopted. So, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you had a lot of associates on the board of directors when you discussed the amendments. You had the opportunity to have your associates help you. These are associates, five ministerial assistants, two secretary of state and one independent advisor. So it's a big team when it comes to interpreting amendments. These associates could tell you, Mr. Minister, to the fact that if it is two identical texts, two amendments, you simply have to react in some way to emulate one and the other amendments and thus improve the text of the law itself. In this case, it's obvious, because there's no other rational reason that you had an overly partial interest. Therefore, the party interest prevailed over some rational interest in terms of improving the text of the basic law itself, as well as accepting more suggestions, identical suggestions from different parliamentary clubs. It is really sad to see that the party interest to this extent is promoted even when it comes to such professional topics, such as basic education. Therefore, I would really appeal to the minister that when he proposes laws, when he represents laws, when he defends those laws, he takes great care of the interests of this society. When he discusses, when he is considering amendments to MPs also to put society's interest first, because how can we trust you, Mr Minister and your ministry, when you show some of the really small things by showing one elemental disrespect for parliamentary proposals, parliamentary amendments. You were simply able to ask one or another parliamentary group to correct this amendment, because it is only a difference in the fact that the amendment of MP LDP 18a is behind Article 18, and the SPS MP is actually behind Article 23a and bearing the number 23a. If we're going to be right, Mr. Minister, 18 is the figure preceding the 23 numbers, as well as 18a to 23a. Therefore, we are not here to discuss the text politically, this is about discussion in particular, but to discuss professionally the draft law, the amendments to the MPs that have been submitted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18568	It was used two minutes and 20 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18569	Thank you. I'm sorry my colleague got the wrong conclusion. This is not an amendment to the SPS, but to the MP Vesna Jovicki, as I did not see your amendments as amendments to the LDP, but to the amendments of MP Judita Popovic. We have accepted some of your amendments and some of the amendments of the parliamentary group. If you look at the structure of the amendments that have been accepted, you will see that the horror by the MPs who make up the opposition is in this honored home. Number 18 is before number 23, but there is also a weather condition when these amendments are filed. As far as I know, colleague Jovicki told me, that the amendment was filed after a debate we had Monday, the day before the principle debate. Maybe later, maybe not, but according to us, it was logical that the amendment was in this place. If we were wrong, I apologize, but there was no political dimension at all, but as you noticed, the place where that amendment is located. The bottom line is we've accepted that solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18570	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18571	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you've actually confirmed my thesis. The point is that you have adopted an amendment from the SPS. We are MPs in this House, but we belong to different parliamentary clubs and different parties. You cannot separate it, the role of MPs and the role of the parliamentary club, or party. It is, no matter what you say, that you did not have this particular party interest, or party privilege before you when you decided on the amendment. It is obvious that the texts that are absolutely identical, even the name above the text of the amendment, are identical to that of the SPS Parliament Club and the SPS Parliament Club. So you didn't give the right reason why you decided to adopt one without adopting one that was identical.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18572	The word is by MP Dejan Radenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18573	Thank you. There have been similar amendments before, so no one has ever cried for any amendment and accused anyone of being a minister from the party, of adopting amendments from the party. I think unlike those who don't care, who criticise all the living, since the SPS mentions, the interest of the SPS is to bring as good laws as possible, as high-quality as possible. We as a parliamentary group, which is best seen by Serbian citizens when we discuss and talk only about what is on the agenda and do not participate in some pointless debates and pointless discussions. I can only say to my colleagues that she was vice president in the last term, and I don't think we have any parliamentary clubs, but MP groups. It's just proof that the debate is only clean to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18574	One minute and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18575	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is the fact that our amendment in fact envisioned an improvement in educational and educational work, an increase in quality and availability of education and education. We are pleased that the other MPs and other parliamentary clubs, as colleagues say, have recognised the need to improve the education and training system, as well as its quality and availability of education. That's what we agree on. So there's no disagreement here about the amendment texts. This is obviously a common political interest both in the SPS and in the LDP, and we have no problem with that. Moreover, we support that you have joined our education policy, as shown in this Article 18a, which we have proposed as an amendment. However, the problem is that certain party actions are re favoured, i.e. certain parties, when deciding on the amendments. It is very well seen from the adoption of one, and the other is not adopted. You could have handled it very easily. Moreover, there is one agreement, if it is about amendments to the same text, to simply adopt all these amendments and there is no problem in this regard deciding by the government, or the resolution ministry, when this is the case. I underline, it is obvious that we have found the common interest of this society to improve education, to improve its quality and availability. That's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18576	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18577	Thank you. When it comes to favouring, then when the amendments were adopted, I favoured representatives of those parliamentary groups who form a congregation minority or are part of the opposition. It is a state of activity, because I have rejected many of the amendments proposed by representatives of the congregation's majority. Now I've been checking with my colleague. These two amendments differ only in one word. The amendment I have accepted is identical to the content of a provision that is part of the Law on secondary education and education. It's the only thing that distinguishes these two amendments. We're left to see who he's been cheating on and why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18578	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18579	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have not responded, Mr. Minister, you have not explained the reason why the amendment of the LDP MPs was rejected. You have tried in some way to reduce the importance of what you have done, because you have favored the SPS parliamentary group. Just because you came out with this opinion, with this acceptance of the amendment, and today you're talking about some copying, I'm sorry, if nothing else, this is some sort of idolatry to those MPs whose amendment you refused. I underline, it is not essentially about whether or not we are opposed to you adopting an amendment from the SPS, but rather about the fact that we believe that you favored an MP from the same party, all of which is at the expense of the LDP MPs. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18580	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18581	Thank you. I'll do it very briefly, in a few sentences. The minister said, when it comes to a concrete amendment, there is a difference, even if that difference was in one word. A little while ago, we were talking about political interest here. When it comes to the subject we're talking about today and the one we talked about on yesterday, which we're going to talk about tomorrow, we don't see political interest here as a Parliament club. We see something here that is of general interest. The public's interest and the interest of all of us in this hall should be to adopt quality legal proposals and thus improve the education system in Serbia. Once again, please don't be such an important subject that we're talking about these days to bring to the level of day-to-day policy issues. It's not the time, it's not the place. As for the SPS, and we are deeply convinced, there is no favoring certain MPs here when it comes to legal proposals. I'll say on behalf of the SPS Parliament Club that we don't care whose copyright is above any amendments. We are also prepared to accept the opposition's amendment if it is of quality and if it will, in a good sense, correct the legislative proposals we are talking about today. It is important that we achieve that common goal, which is to improve the education system in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18582	National MP Miletic Mihajlovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18583	Another aspect. The position of the proposed amendments is not the same, 19 and 23a. What the minister has accepted is I think it's a natural place for this amendment to be accepted because the programs are being talked about here. Article 23 says what programmes are involved and the accepted amendment says – the centre model is a school that implements other programs within the school programmes. This is about program typeology, and it's a natural place, in my opinion, of this amendment where it was put on the 23rd. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18584	It's been used 55 seconds since the authorized representative's time. Is anyone else answering for a word in the debate in particular on amendment to new Article 18a? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic together submitted to the 19th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Ana Novkovic has tabled an amendment proposing that a new article 19a be added after article 19a. Does anyone want a word? National MP Ana Novkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18585	I had the same amendment regarding the model of the centre, and I can't say that I'm wrong to accept the amendment of my colleague Vesna, not the amendment of the Members of the URS, it's important to me that there is a model of the centers in the law. I would only draw the minister's attention if I didn't think that any of them were cheating, but that there are really quality educators among MPs who want to improve this law and education. I'm glad that the model centres have been introduced because we have a lot of schools among primary schools that are an example of good practice and that no model centres have been introduced I think a great injustice would have been made for these schools. In them, in over 200 schools, a program is realized – School without Violence and just the realization of this programme has contributed not to neglecting this problem, not to push our heads into the sand, but to work on its resolution. I can tell you that in those schools we have really good results. In many schools, inclusion was introduced long ago, and their experience was precious to other schools. When the inclusion was introduced, I already said, teachers had certain dilemmas, fears, etc. They were completely unsupported and just experience from these schools was their most precious. I would also mention schools as centres of educational tourism, which give great importance and opportunity to schools in rural tourism. Model centers will have multiple benefits. On the one hand, it will be a recognition and reward for all those educators who have developed examples of good practice. We in the URS are the position that any quality work should be rewarded and adequately valued. The benefit will also be provided by teachers in other schools, as they will have the opportunity to learn directly in examples of good practice. Experience tells us that in fact teachers are the easiest to apply when they see that something at another school in direct work has produced good results. Of course, multiple benefits will also benefit students, for they will be able to gain knowledge and skills in a better way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18586	It was used three minutes and 10 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18587	Dear Mr. Minister, just like colleague Ana Novkovic, and I would like to congratulate on the willingness to accept the proposal regarding the school model and we do not have any problem in the URS by accepting it as a proposal in the formulation of the SPS parliamentary group rather than in the formulation of the parliamentary group of the URS, i.e. co-worker Ana Novković. It does, however, because it is equally the right tendency to understand the concept of similitude and implement it as a very important moment of teaching practice and teaching process at school. Because, when there is no pattern and separation, then there may be situations that seem devastating, first of all, at school and school communicative community, and later on in the wider social community, so because of the neglect of sampling, such paradoxes can happen to you in the highest debate on education, basic education laws, in the most competent place, let's say, they glue the label that you're fascist because you use the termology of the bine-Simon scale, which is an institution of development psychology and pedagogy, or they stick the label to you that you're fascisoid because you're calling, no less than the Aristotle, which we're probably hearing, quite innovative, one of the archeologists of Nazism, God's simple, and that you can't even object to insult the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. By returning to the primary school education system, education as not only labels, but norms and object of respect is restored. We certainly support this, regardless of the fact that a formulation has been accepted, not under this amendment, but under the same previous SPS amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18588	It was used two minutes and 15 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group. I apologize to colleague Ani Novkovic, given that she has submitted the amendment, the minute and 10 have been used. He has two minutes to explain the amendment. I said it wrong. (Employee Ana Novkovic, from the post: Do you take away from him from his authorised representative? ) National MP Sasa Milenić used the time of the authorised representative, and you had, by mistake, three minutes and 10, no, but a minute and 10 and now two minutes and 15 MP Sasa Milenić. Is anyone else answering for a word in search of this amendment? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic jointly submitted to the 21st amendment. National MP Milica Vojic Markovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18589	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is an amendment to Article 21 in the third chapter of the law – The objectives and outcomes of primary education and education and concerns the objectives of primary education and education. In point 1, you say that one of the objectives is full of intellectual, emotional, social, moral and physical development of each child and student, and in line with its age, development needs and interests. My intervention was first of all because you are introducing two concepts – a child and a student, which actually confuses those who read this law and should apply it. I can understand your explanation in that part because you're also talking about this so-called Zeroth grade, which is also part of this education system and for these reasons, for the age of that child, you use the term child. You in article 54 of this law say that by enrolling a child in the first grade, he acquires the property of a student. My intervention was in that direction, by being able to understand what you wrote in your explanation, as something that's right, and the opposite of what I asked for in the amendment. But now I come across a wall of silence when it comes to reasoning, and the second part of this amendment is mine. Under point 11, the objectives of basic education and education, you say that one development is aware of the importance and sustainable development of the protection and conservation of nature and the environment, environmental ethics and animal protection. Because of this animal protection, I would especially not attack what you wrote, because I like it, but somewhere in this area of environmental protection, the termology is changing terribly in relation to the width of the concept. Mr. Radovic, perhaps, would also support me in this amendment, and that is why we are, and on the basis of what is called the team's ministry, intervened, and we believe that this point should be read, means 11. – development of awareness of the importance of environmental protection, sustainable development and rational use of natural resources. That's what you wrote here. It's just a little bit different. I know there's not much understanding here in the government for this area. I see that in the part where the rebalancing is being talked about, it's obviously going to save itself in this area. I don't know what will be spared when 0.2% of the budget is prescribed, but at least to enter education that we will teach our students this, and not, as you said here, to protect and preserve nature and the environment, so nature is also part of the environment. I must correct you, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18590	55 seconds from the time of the mandated representative of the parliamentary group has been used. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 21st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment with the correction was brought together by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18591	Article 22 discusses the outcomes of education and education. This proposed amendment has several parts, but I will remain at point 9, where you suggest that one of the outcomes is that students will be ready to accept challenges and change with a responsible attitude towards themselves and their activities. We suggest that this point is – that they will be ready to respond to challenges according to their knowledge and attitudes. Probably sounds a lot like it, but it's not. One thing is to be prepared to accept the challenge, and the other is to be ready to respond to challenges and problems. When I read this, it sounded a little defetistic. We cannot just accept the challenge, but we must educate and educate students to deal with problems, or challenges, and to solve them more successfully in accordance with their abilities and attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18592	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 22 of the amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Shin. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Vesna Jovicki has tabled an amendment proposing that a new title and a new member of 23a be added after Article 23. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted together to Article 24 of the amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18593	I'd like to thank you for accepting our amendments. It would be better for children, for students, for parents, for teachers, for the entire education system if you had accepted a few more amendments, not just ours. This is the time to say something I'm very interested in, and it's kind of neglectful. We're sitting in this room talking about what's really important, but part of it is what's happened these days with the tests that appeared before. Now, Minister, you have news in the media that at the elementary school "Svetozar Markovic" they offer material proof that tests from Serbian language were available to students prior to the exam. I'm curious, I'm not saying that on the persuasion, are they going to be annulled, as is mathematics, because material evidence has been found, or are we going to be present for a new twist? It is very important that many parents call and seek, comment on that part of the Serbian language exam, where there were opportunities for some children to come to this and that some children work on the basis of what they have learned. We could hear that comment because we have calls about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18594	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18595	Thank you, colleague, for asking. I think the MUP is checking all the elements or all the facts related to the information received about the possible abuse of the Serbian language test two days ago. What I can say as a resolute minister and to inform you of the audience and the public is that this morning, we received preliminary results from the Serbian language test, which show that the results on average are worse than last year's. In Belgrade, the average rating is 14.5, in fact in Belgrade's school administration, I apologize. In Leskovec it is 11.38, in Novi Sad it is 12.5, in Užica it is around 11, in Jagodina it is 12.5, in Kragujevac it is 11.46, in Nis it is 13.0, in Kruševec it is 11.8, in Valjevjevje 12.63, in Kralje it is 12.5, in Čačka it is 12, in Sombor it is 12, in Zrenjanin it is 12, in Zaječar it is 11.5, in Pozarevec it is 12, in Kosovo Mitrovica 10.5 and in Ranilug it is 10.05. At the level of the Republic of Serbia, according to preliminary results, would be 12.12. Last year was 13.27, and a year before 14.1. These results show that neither the test was easy, as claimed, nor that there were prescriptions, as was also claimed. If the test was easy, the average rating would be higher. If the test was prescribed, the average rating would be higher. What is not good, for us in the education system or objectively for the employees, is information that in certain school administrations the number of excellent grades is less than the number of wolves in these schools or school administrations, which opens up another question – the quality of learning. That's something we'll deal with in the future. Anyway, thank you for this question. I think the public needs to know this information. When the MUP conducts an investigation and determines all the facts, of course, we will be informed, so you too will be informed, who of the students, if there was and who he was, and who he prescribed, and how it happened and how, and who he stole, who forged it. You'll find out all the things. We're not putting anything under the carpet or aside. The public needs to know all things about passing exams because it's an important thing for education and of course for children and their parents, but these preliminary results say something different than the thesis that tried to impose in public. I can tell you one more thing. The exit from the case - Serbian language on Monday was 98.73% of all eighth grade students who passed the Serbian language exam, i.e. the native language. Today's slow math will be over in 30 minutes. According to school administration data, the turnout on today's test is 98.53%. We'll see what the results are. About the results of that after. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18596	National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18597	Thank you. I guess you and I don't understand each other. You're telling me that you don't suspect that the results are valid because they're bad, that something bad shows that this system worked, that doesn't mean that. If people in some schools claim there's material evidence and it's public, then they're probably behind it. Secondly, when I was talking about regularity, I was also talking about, let's say, a second test was done in Pirot from the one you read on television. Is it regular then, and so is it? Is that also a form of regularity? I just don't get it, because that's where different things come in. So any school commission can hear what she wants, do that test. There's a lot of irregularity here, so that's why we wanted to clarify these irregularities. And because the results are bad, it shows a lot of what and we'll talk about it later, when we talk about national tests and other things and our amendments. The results are bad because we admit to them one year that Jovan Jovanovic Dragon is written in a small letter, the results are bad because we are looking for excuses that something is not written or written, as you wish to say. That's why the results are bad. We have to put an end to it and say what it is now, how we're going to do from today, to make the results better. I'm listening to my colleagues who talk here many times today -- educators have brought this out, educators have brought this out. Yes, the greatest number of educators has brought out a lot of what, but the fact that the educators carried out shows that the system doesn't work, because that system works, then everyone in that system has a task that, when it doesn't, would have a responsibility for it. On the other hand, I'm someone who's been visiting schools that you've given us as suggestions to see how the inclusion is conducted in many schools, so those that are examples of good practice and those who have many problems. I can tell you that I've heard such terrible things that I'm not supposed to say publicly from the same colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18598	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18599	As far as I'm concerned, Vojić Markovic, feel free to make them public. We can't get away from our reality, as good or bad as it is, because we have to say everything to identify the problem and then suggest a way to solve it. This morning, I said in an informative show, which I really think I'm thinking about using, which is not appropriate for an educational worker, that if he had proof that someone was cheating, instead of that evidence to the director or to bring to the Home Office, or the director to bring it to the Ministry of the Interior, the list was given, because it was thought the problem would be hidden. No, he won't. The director has already been informed by the Home Office. What am I supposed to think about this teacher, even if he teaches sociology and how he teaches and teaches children about morality and basics, if he does not respect his obligations, and he was the supervisor of a process of conducting exams from Serbian, or native language? What should I think? Or unions that invite parents not to send their children to school. It is their right to seek the resignation of the minister, no one can forbid them, but to invite children and parents, or parents not to go to school and children not to go to school, it is a shame. They're our educators. As in the time of the strike, when they defended their children from entering schools, to exercise their right. The fact that they won't hold class, okay, because there's exactly the law and the obligations laid down by law, but to defend children from entering school, that's our reality. That's why we can't cover this up, but find out who forged it and stole the math tests, which is why we were forced to move that down by one day. Here, 98.53%, means that children and parents are conscious, of some who work in education, are calling for a boycott of math exams. But it's Serbia and it's our reality and we need to find a solution against it. We don't want anything, nor can we escape. We want to determine all the facts, not just for this cycle of final exams, but for all things related to education. For me, unfortunately, these bad results are not a surprise, because children have been taught years ago not to understand what they're learning, but they've only been preparing for the final exam six months from the collection that's been known six months ahead and the whole second semester of the eighth grade has turned into the best way to learn where the task is going to be, or where the task was known to be on that final exam. That's the cash we're paying now. We changed three years in a row, this year we have 75% unknown assignments, 25% relatively familiar, next year everyone will be unknown. When the police determine these facts and those who stole the tests and forged them will be punished, it will be a clear sign that the issue has been resolved and will not be repeated. Within the education system we also have how much to do on his promotion and welcome advice, suggestions for all who want the system to be improved and who put children and their interests first, rather than their individual interests. Believe me, as you mentioned, there are many stories from different environments that we are trying to check, determine accuracy, and take appropriate measures that are not in line with what should be the content of the teaching process or part of the educational process in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for being part of that team that visited these schools and objections, if you have them, you know that we are welcome to try to solve this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18600	National MP Milica Vojić Markovic, right on line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18601	I'll just answer it for a second. We're going to do a public hearing, as we did for the first time, where representatives of all the ministries that need to engage together will be invited, and then we're going to present the results of that little team of ours. On the other hand, you don't seem to understand me very well. What I've been saying, I didn't want to challenge you now to talk about the strike, the educators and the rest. This requires seriousness, it requires an objective evaluation of that part of the system called – teachers. I'm asking you to be serious, Mr. Minister, about where your role is in what we say today, even though we should have talked about how a little graduation is going to be conducted on some other programs, we're delaying that question for another time. There's your responsibility. On the other hand, I have to tell you there's a responsibility when it comes to bad results, and it happens to be my substance, so I watched very pedanticly what all these tests look like. If you look at what it looks like we're building in a Serbian-language elementary school, you see that over 60% is grammar, and that literature in that part is much less. If you put in a test in this regard 17 questions from literature to recognize, know that you will get results that are not adequate. This is a very serious and delicate question that needs to be discussed professionally and really put all things in place, so let's see what's causing us and what's the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18602	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18603	My colleague Vojić Markovic, I absolutely support your proposal, that it be the subject of public reading and that we talk about it, because the things you mentioned are the work of the profession, it is not the minister. The system is so well-conceived that we have two institutions, the National Educational Council and the Ministry that is responsible for everything, and professional people are doing this part of the job, as the people of the Education and Education Office have done this test. I am absolutely in favour of the profession discussing all the issues that you mentioned and others need to improve the system.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18604	Does anyone else appear in the debate under the amendment to Article 24? National MP Janko Veselinović, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18605	Chairman, reporting in the same tone. So, a slightly expanded topic regarding the current situation, related to the fact that we now have information that Serbian tests were also available to those who could buy them. We also have information that the principal of the elementary school, Svetozar Markovic, has informed the commission of this and that they have not yet received an answer. In that sense, in some ways I deny this to the minister that they were not informed. On the other hand, the minister said the turnout was 98.53. This reminds me a little bit more of this election turnout story, etc. There's never been a question of children's turnout in tests. On the other hand, calling for children not to go to tests, I agree that he has a great responsibility and is very discreet what to do in that situation. On the one hand, you have the fact that you're going to the exam, you're going to be tested in an unequal position, you know that some of your colleagues that you went to class with already have solved issues, and the other option is that you stay home and don't go to school next year. In that sense, I think that's why they took the exam today, and they just didn't want the system to stay out of school next year.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18606	It's been two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18607	It's not a replica, I'm using MP time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18608	You have been given the right to a replica, since National MP Milica Vojić Markovic also had a replica, but okay.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18609	She spoke according to the amendment and talked about this subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18610	No, there were replicas between her and the minister, but okay, then proceed from the time of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18611	On the other hand, Minister, you're defending quite indefensible. I really don't wish I were in your role today. I understand you perfectly as a man. You're saying that the bad results on the tests, which means there wasn't, like, a conversation, too many tests solved and there wasn't too much buying tests. I could set up two premises and one conversation in the same way, which is that the fewer children bought tests, that the larger number of children didn't buy the tests, and that's why the test results are worse. And that assumption is possible, and you're not rejecting that possibility. However, I am now asking you on behalf of the MPs of the DS, on behalf of all MPs, but first of all, on behalf of the children and their parents, what will happen if you determine, and apparently it will not be so far away, that there have been irregularities in laying the Serbian language? If we use the terms in the area of voting law, if you have one more invalid ballot, you should cancel the elections at that polling station or the entire constituency. What's going to happen, I'm serious about this right now, if it turns out some kids had their tests solved and some didn't? That means you have an irregular pass of the Serbian exam. Does this mean that 70,000 children, 140 thousand of their parents, need the next days to wait for your investigation, i.e. an investigation into the MUP, to worry about whether a Serbian language exam will be repeated? You may decide not to repeat that exam, but you will have an irregular exam in full. In that sense, as a whole, the government is held accountable. I'm not going to go in there if it's the responsibility of the minister, the police, the education or the Prime Minister or the first Deputy Prime Minister, since I see that in some way the Special Forces have followed these tests today. So I ask you, what happens if it is found that there has been irregularities with Serbian, since it has already been a time we can't return? Will they take it again? Can they go to their grandparents because they'll hardly go to sea? This has been done by your fellow finance, economy ministers, etc. because rarely anyone in Serbia today has money for the sea. Please give an answer to this and come from this assumption that I have given – what if there were irregularities with Serbian and if children had to take the Serbian language again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18612	Five minutes and 30 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group were used. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18613	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. If you have any information that will help resolve the question of whether there was a copying during Serbian, it would be good if you delivered it to the MUP, any information that would be valuable to determine the factual state. I said yesterday and I repeat again that several parents and one newspaper house have reported to us as the Ministry of this exam. counterpart Kostic, who is chairman of the commission, adds that while the Serbian language exams were conducted, there was no information. After that, information appeared. We asked for all of this to be delivered to the MUP, the criminal police administration, to determine the facts, because there's a difference before and after. At 12.30 p.m. when the school director gets the key to solving the tasks that were on that day on the test, practically from that moment on, there is the possibility that all tests are available, because then what they did in one of the three tests at school is assessed. The commission led by counterpart Kostic will appreciate all the evidence it receives. They'll make a decision. The information you mentioned, we heard as oral information from the school's director, not as written information. counterpart Kostic says they did not receive that kind of information as a commission, so they could not give a feedback. We really care to determine who stole the tests and forged it, because it's a crime and the culprit has to be punished, not to suffer children, that they are not to blame for what happened and for the motives that led to this shameful act of stealing tests or counterfeiting. I'm talking about math because there was evidence. On Serbian language, we did not get any proof of the mother tongue. If someone owns it, it would be logical for them to deliver it, the criminal police administration, to determine whether it was forged documents and how that person came to them, how he owns them, and, of course, on that basis, a proper conclusion will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18614	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, who is entitled to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18615	Minister, thank you for calling for co-operation. I only remind you that in the making of the tests, their distribution and, in some ways, the making of these tests are involved, first of all, people who are on the payroll of the Serbian state, so, first of all, your ministry, the MUP, employees of schools that share these tests to children, and you are much closer to those people and your people who are heads, directors, etc., individual departments, than we MPs. We've been sort of discussing here these days a set of education laws, the future of this school, primary and secondary education. We couldn't have been anywhere in the field. However, this information does not satisfy me entirely that you have received, or the Commission, oral information, that you have not given an answer because it is probably an inadequate form. Couldn't the Commission have spoken in writing, if it already needed that form, that director or director of the OS "Svetozar Markovic" so that you would have real proof? If it wasn't, maybe -- let's do another excess, an even bigger problem for the ministry and the state? Did he try to cover it up? I don't think that's the point, Mr. Beard. Maybe there wouldn't be this math thing if it were done in Serbian on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18616	Two minutes. Anybody else answer for a word? Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18617	Mr. Veselinović, you made the right claims. I just asked you to give evidence for those claims and nothing else. The same goes for all others who possess some evidence, it would be good to be delivered to us, to determine what is true about the whole story of laying the Serbian language. I was under obligation, colleague Vojić Markovic asked a question, I answered that question. We can now draw different conclusions from that, but when we get individual results inside schools, we will also see how the students have done these tasks within individual schools. All before that is prejudge the state of affairs. I am in a situation today to tell you, as MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the information we received from the school administrations. Whether they please you or do not satisfy you, what conclusion you will draw, that is your right. But we at the Ministry can't get any worse than it is, because we're in advance convicted of something that's not part of our job. We don't do tests, we don't print them, we don't distribute them, we don't distribute them, we don't share our tests with the students, and we're guilty of everything. Now we want to determine the facts - who stole the tests, who forged it, what was motive, money or something else, who committed the crime, to be prosecuted and punished, never to happen again, in the interests of education and children. That's what we want. And every single case, of course.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18618	National MP Janko Veselinović has the right to reply. We're closing a circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18619	I have a feeling that you're angry and that there's a certain amount of anger in the tone of your speech and a little attitude that, well, we're to blame for what happened. You're the Minister of Education, you accepted it. What happened was a big scandal, an unprecedented scandal, a hit-and-run state, and you expect us to keep quiet about it now. I didn't make any claims I didn't have as information, and so do you. So, on the site of a very prominent media currently stands the name, last name of the director or director, I don't want to say that name so that she wouldn't possibly have any problem, the name of the school, the fact that she pointed out orally. You confirm that she pointed orally and you say that I'm making certain claims. I'm just asking you to check it out again. It may be too late now, but perhaps it wasn't too late then when that oral claim was received by the Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18620	Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18621	Mr. Veselinović, I'd like to ask you not to interpret me in your own way. I just invited you, because I know you're a serious man, to help the Ministry of the Interior and us in education, to have these claims documented and to help solve the problem. That's what I said and I'm absolutely staying on it. I'm not mad at you at all? Why would I be angry? Why? I'm doing my job and I'm absolutely responsible for what I'm doing and I'm not running away from my responsibility. But the Minister of Education didn't carry tests in his bag, so they disappeared, or he printed them, so he distributed them or something. That's why I want all of us at the Ministry to establish all the elements, to get rid of the Ministry, to see who did it and why, so it doesn't happen tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and once and for all to put an end to that kind of behavior in education. I think our goal is together. I don't see that any significant difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18622	People's MP Olga Batic has word to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18623	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, and that's Article 106, since the speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda under review, and I don't think there's any discussion here about details, or the amendment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18624	People's MPs, the course of the session is currently in replicas. Please be more careful, we all follow the course of the session together. On the basis of Article 27, I am obliged to take care of the order at the session. Knowing that the topic launched by MP Milica Vojic Markovic is of interest to all, that the minister is ready to respond, during the session is in replicas. During the replica, there is no application of Article 106, or the MP entitled to the replica does not speak of the agenda. That's why the replica exists. (Olgica Batic, from the place: Can I just add something? It's hard, since the Rules of Procedure aren't hurt. (Olgica Batić, from the place: Good. Thank you. Thank you. Do any of the MPs who have been declared want to use the right to reply, as opposed to what the minister gave as information, the MPs who participated in the replicas with questions about taking tests? National MP Djordje Milicevic wants a right to replication. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18625	I'm going to say just a few sentences on the subject that we've been talking about over the past few minutes. What I want to say first completely clear and completely accurate is that anyone who has certain data, anyone who has certain facts about the subject that has just been said about it, needs this information to deliver to the competent authorities and the competent institutions, and let them do their job. It would be a responsible relationship if any of the MPs had any information. Otherwise, if it is not done, then it is simply an attempt to politicise a topic that is of paramount importance, of exceptional importance today in Serbia and then it could be defined, I do not want to believe that it was a reason, to disabling the public and to bring further interference to both parents and children who were eligible. What are the facts, here, the minister is here and I'd like him to correct me if I'm wrong, the Ministry has noticed that there is a counterfeit, the Ministry has made a decision to move the deposit. Has the right decision been made? We believe that it is a responsible relationship and that the right decision has been made. It is not correct to publicly call the representatives of the Ministry for what is not, in fact, part of their obligations, or their responsibilities. Otherwise, I don't see that Mr. Obradovic is nervous, on the contrary, he has said more than once that the truth is the interest of the Ministry, the truth is the interest of all of us. Let everyone in Serbia do their job. Let the competent institutions and the competent authorities determine what is true, and we take political views based on the truth and on what is fact.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18626	Thank you. Since we have registered MPs Donko Banovic and Janko Veselinovic in the electronic system, I assume you two want replicas. Yeah. ) In the morning part of the work, the right to the replica will be given to the MP Donka Banović, then the MP Janko Veselinović, and then we will finish the morning part of the work. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18627	I'd like to learn from this discussion in replicas. My colleague said he estimates Minister Obradovic is not nervous. I don't think it would be normal if he didn't feel bad after what's going on. I don't know if the word "nerving" is the right word, but it certainly feels bad and all the people in the Ministry who are involved in this process should feel bad. The minister also said the ministry is not responsible for the fact that math tests have arrived on the street and are on sale. Exactly he is not responsible, he himself said – I did not carry the tests in the bag, but you ministers have what is called command responsibility, or the Ministry of Education is what needs to set up the entire system and all the steps and those parts of the system throughout this final exam would have to be controlled and properly controlled, and yet the Ministry is responsible, and you are at the head of this ministry. So what I'd like to conclude is that there's a big job ahead of you, if you don't want this to happen again next year. From the first step, who are these people who are doing these tests, who are they, to reevaluate their responsibility in the whole story, could be the most banal way to get it out, that someone has a child who takes the final exam, that they gave it to their child, and that child passed it on to Facebook, and then all those who saw the way to earn it were involved. So it could be like that, to say the most banal reason why these tests went out on the street. So, your responsibility to you from that first step to the last one, when you reach the director and the school, is your responsibility and full responsibility to the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18628	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a two-minute replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18629	Regarding the presentation of my distinguished colleague, Mr Milicevic, I really think it would be better for the minister and his party not to defend the government in this way. What kind of politicization he's talking about. So, tests were found on the street, tests sold, irregular admission exams, or final exams. He says we're politicizing something. We just pointed out the problem that exists in this country, I even said I didn't know if the Minister of Education was responsible, the police minister. But don't transfer the ball to us now that we're doing research. You, Mr. Milicevic, have the Ministry of Police, you have the Secret Service, the Education, the Army, I don't know what you don't have, you're the government. You're asking us to give key evidence even though the key evidence is only you. You found out about math, people offered you Serbian, maybe you could accept it, maybe you didn't. Now don't switch the ball to us and talk about politicizing. What we said was that the tests were on the street, which the entire community in the field of primary education knows, so we didn't say anything special, nor did we want to raise our party's ratings in that way and lower your party's rating. This is simply the responsible relationship of the opposition. If you accept that, if you think it's okay to sell tests, you and SNS, it's an honor to you, but how do you behave it looks like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18630	This concludes the morning part of our work. According to Articles 27 and 87, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 1800 hours, and because of the need to complete at least part of the debate in particular. We will now continue at 15.05 hours of debate in the details of the amendment that is still on the agenda, Article 24. National MPs who have been registered have the right to speak, at 15.05 pm are MPs Marko Atlagic and Zlata Djeric. Thank you. [[after breaks]] I'm asking the government's representatives to enter the plenary hall so we can begin the afternoon session. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work in the afternoon. We have stopped the debate in particular, a search for amendments to Article 24, which together submitted national MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The afternoon section begins with eight minutes late, wishing that the MPs who applied for the word and the minister would arrive in the O.R. so that we could continue our work on the Rules of Procedure. Since the minister is also there, the word has been given by MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18632	Dear Chairman, I think this Article 24 is extremely important for the entire system of education and education. It seems to me that this amendment submitted by Mr. Dusan Obradovic makes sense when we formally watch it. Why? Because when we're really looking at it, then everything goes to the curriculum and the program. I will be free here to link this proposal to the teaching courses in Article 24 where it stands – mandatory subjects and electoral ones. Two stands – electoral items prescribed by the law on curricula and the programme. He just added here, as you can see in Article 22 a colleague has added – to be able to have a responsible relationship with the future. I'm sorry, I was wrong. That instead of electoral items prescribed by the school's curriculum and program, the school can implement other courses according to the school's programme. When you see an explanation, it refers to other things entirely. It would be good for electoral and mandatory subjects to be redefined, i.e. redefining curricula and programmes, to be led by the Ministry of Accounts. In what way? What are mandatory items? There are comments from many direct educators of curricula and programs, teachers and professors. I'm going to say that we can't realize the outcomes you've set forward, and one of the outcomes is the belonging and sense of the identity of the people you belong to and the compassion and understanding of other national communities. But if we've thrown out with a curricula and a history program and brought it down somewhere in class, when we're talking about elementary school, and in high school, we don't have a history, then we sure as hell can't make it happen. In the end, today on a very current subject, I'm sorry there is no Mr. Minister, but there are gentlemen assistants, State Secretary, I can say that a small graduation is at stake. I'm going to link this to breaking these tests. Let some from the ministry answer me – what purpose is a small graduation? That's what elementary school teachers ask. What goal? Are we in 1946? Is it possible that a little graduation isn't timed because of the tests and the break-in tests that someone's doing tests and taking the money? When tests and break-ins are at stake, the tests were broken not only this year but last year. At the Greenwedding we could buy for 5,000 last year. He's wrong when he says he's not responsible for breaking and entering these tests. Maybe someone's been directly responsible earlier, but with our actions and let's take it off the agenda, not this one, but any other minister in the future. Once again, I'm undermining that the tests were broken earlier and last year. It has been said that responsibility will be determined. Not that I know of. They've been broken this year. I ask the question – did he break into the one who printed those tests because a number of tests need to be printed again and put the money in his pocket? Is that what you thought? It's not true that the ministry has no jurisdiction over these tests. Please, it's all in the office of the ministry. The Ministry organized these tests and everything in the past organized it. I'm not gonna say the Ministry is wrong. It can be by its inaction. The one who printed the tests, isn't it possible that his goal was to break in before they got to the student? Whether the goal of small graduation is not the results of knowledge, but of ignorance, and that perhaps not these tests, as you have heard the indicators, since we introduced a small degree the results of knowledge are in our students' primary school lower and lower. What's the point? What's the function of small graduation? Is it possible that whoever printed the tests or someone in the printing process was in this process of realization? Since Mr. Minister has entered, Mr. Minister, you are responsible for everything that happens in the ministry, no matter who broke the tests because you have to have the Ministry under control. It's all under the auspices of the ministry. Maybe he's a directly responsible printer, but if he's responsible next year, they need to withdraw the consequences, or someone who distributed it, etc. So, I'm saying I'm going to finish the tests by testing each year with the objective type tests at the mid-term and end of the school year, and teachers really think that small graduation is too high. This little graduation test, you see for yourself, for what purpose. I don't think it's for students' knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18633	Five minutes and 35 seconds from the time of the parliamentary group have been used, with notice to the National Assembly that the MP ends his presentation with a stenogram, it can be seen that we are currently in the debate in particular, in the amendment to Article 24, which together submitted Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic, but I have estimated that it is better to allow the MP Marko Atlagic to speak of the amendment to the same member of the other MP who is not yet in the search. Anyone else want a word? (No) National MP Dusan Obradovic submitted to Article 24 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18634	Dear Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would support my colleague Dusan Obradovic's amendment to Article 24 for the simple reason that public schools here are placed in an unequal position compared to private schools, on the one hand. On the other hand, this amendment applies to talented students, if it is known that only 5.6% is invested in education in this country, and 0.3% of the budget or 108m euros in science, least of all in Europe, it is extremely important to take care of talents, scholarships and all that follows. So, four thousand students in Serbia go to private schools annually, as far as primary and secondary education is concerned, where the scholarship is from 1,000 euros to 12,000 euros. Doesn't mean you get quality education. The problem of education in Serbia is acute, to say the collapse of education has been acute for years and the DS cannot take responsibility there, as for 23 years since the multi-party in Serbia, it has been only two years able to manage this perhaps most important resort in Serbia. Unfortunately, what happened yesterday is a twilight in education in Serbia, and someone has to answer for it, and I think it's also moral law, as is happening everywhere in the world, that the minister of education resigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18635	Does anyone else want a word in the debate under this amendment? (No) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Snježana Bogosavljevic Boskovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The 25th amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18636	Article 25 states that each school adopts a development plan in accordance with the law, roof law and then lists in some 13 points what the school's development plan must contain, including point 4) of the bill – prevention measures, student rashes. The intervention I have made with the amendment is that this point is – measuring the prevention of early school leaving, simply because this dissipation of students can sometimes sound funny. You've decided not to accept the amendment, and I'm even accepting this argument, maybe you're right. What is good in both this law and the law on medium, in the roof law, is that in many places both in the school programme and in the development plan predicts that each school, whether it will be a team or some other act, will deal with the problem of early school leaving. It's a good vision, and we'll see what the results will be, because so far, especially when it comes to these most sensitive social groups, it's been very pronounced. We found out today how many students were doing this final test, which is from Serbian, which is from mathematics, so we have data that 98% of eighth grade students went to the final exam, which is quite a number. However, there is also the fact that 2% of the students, who finished eighth grade, did not go to the test, and we know only when the test is complete, that then the primary school is thought to be completed, and that can also be a problem that has been prematurely abandoned. I know there are schools in August that organize for those students who don't come out, but maybe at some point, the minister could tell us what the previous experiences are. Our goal must be to complete a 100% primary school in order to reduce the number of illiterate and functionally illiterate in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18637	The 25th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18638	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Article 25 deals with the development plan of the school and point 3) to which I have submitted and so we have sent our children a message, so I am telling you that they are already suffering a great deal of damage from this whole scandal, we have sent a message that something that we have tried to call a small test of maturity can be solved by fraud, deception and lying, as we do in modern society. It's very bad for education and for society, for parents, for each individual and for every child. That's why this situation has to be given to a public epilogue, which is why, and because of all those honorable educators who do their job fairly, with a lot of enthusiasm, with a lot of emotion above all, we have to be responsible for children who also deserve our responsibility and deserve to be guided by one, yet more morally into the future. A colleague asked a question that's right and right, so the educators ask themselves-- what's this little graduation exam for? This exam, this way that it's been going on for several years, really doesn't make any sense and it's not a small graduation, it's a scam to everyone, and children and educators. It's a scam from the moment you get the finished collection in February where someone took the nice money, the very nice money, that collection is prescribed for years and printed in the same circulation, changed something from the assignments, with the finished answers. Imagine, you have terrible results. One eight can't ask 250 questions with their answers, they don't work. Someone taught them not to work, not to the extent that they should work and learn, for some day before that they will buy 20 questions already. Now, it's a scandal that's much deeper, harder and more serious. We don't have to court our parents, and we don't have to court the voters that way, because to ourselves and our own children, we're all here and our parents are, among other things, doing a bear service, or this little graduation, Mr. Minister, has to get another form from next year. This is your alarm that you can't do this anymore and that you don't have to say that you're going to have a whole new collection. You shouldn't have a collection or you shouldn't have a small graduation. The first three years when the exam went as an open-label exam, when the children came and knew that they needed to prepare mathematics and Serbian language from the fifth to eighth grade, and that this material would be on the exam, they were fantastically preparing, we had fantastic results and fantastic generations. This is a scam, and you have to change this. This is an indication that it is necessary to change that approach to small graduation and, as once, when it began to do so with a truly sincere intention to be a test of maturity, do so. It wasn't all negative in the past, and we didn't get over it with better solutions, it was a better solution, or if it wasn't gone, you finish eighth grade, you take your testimony, according to the number, according to the middle grade, according to the results of the high school, so it was before that. So this should absolutely leave. That's what yesterday's situation showed us. So we're either a state or we're a tribe. We are trying to show that we are a state and indeed, I am asking Mr. Minister to bring this situation to an end, to clean up, to show all those involved. I'll tell you, it's not a new situation, don't all act naive, it's been going on since the collection of interrogations, one way or another. Only now has the ministry decided to deal with it with all the honors. Exorcise it to the end, let all who are guilty, all who have participated in it, and indeed, this should be overcome. So we must respect our education much more. We need to show that what is the foundation of this country and that has the only hope of really getting us out of all these situations is education that needs to be brought up by future generations that we need to leave this society and that need to be guaranteed by some future. In this way, no matter how many cases it is and how many attempts it has been, how many people have participated in it, we have shown to our generation that we are introducing them into a serious life, in fact by trying and allowing them to do it as frauds, as liars, as someone who deceives. That's not good. That's what's alarming in this situation. We're all, absolutely all equally and collectively responsible for what happened to us. This happened to us, this didn't happen to the minister, this happened to us as a society and to our children. I ask you to look at this situation and this problem in the light of it and pay attention to the fact that the results have become disastrously weak in this way. We have been having a problem with illiterate and semi-written generations, which, thanks to instant communication and technologies, are becoming less and less respectful of their language. They're "leeking" a lot, and they don't like much, or they like a little bit of it. So, that's what we have to take care of, and that's what the situation told us yesterday, and it's good to do less politicizing, bury party flags and party colors and say -- our kids are really our future; and let's find a solution, send them a message, we can, we need to be honest, honest and moral society, and make real values and real gain of knowledge the only thing that can become. There's no other way, believe me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18639	Seven minutes and twenty seconds used by the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18640	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, just one piece of information, how much longer has the DS parliamentary group to discuss?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18641	Seventy-one minutes and thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18642	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, our distinguished colleague, Zlata Djeric, has submitted one amendment to Article 25. A law on basic education, which says the school adopts a development plan in accordance with the law. With this law, the school's work plan contains several things, 13-14 things are numbered. Number 2 says – measures to improve the availability and quality of education and education for children and students who need additional support. The amendment adds the word "and tolerance". I think it's a good amendment. First, it comes from a person who is well understood in matter, but here and some other things within the development plan, in the light of our desire to discuss in today's day and in the circumstances that occurred after yesterday the position of Article 25, which says that the development plan also implies a plan for preparation for the final exam. I think we've said enough yesterday, that the public is already familiar enough with everything that happened yesterday and now there's no need to get some extra political points, but it's certainly worth pointing out to Serbian citizens that we're now in a situation where we can really make a cut, to set up some zero point from which we're going to start in the reform process so that we don't have to do this again. The question now is whether you will resign or not, it's up to you now. It is unnecessary to ask whether we will first read the names of those responsible in the tabloids, and only then receive that information from you or the competent prosecutor for this investigation. I absolutely don't hope the tabloids can fail this time. I am convinced that party ballots and tabloids will receive a police report overnight and, in accordance with current practice in Serbia, we will publish it and first in the tabloids we will see the names of those culprits. Of course, I don't trust party music. I don't trust tabloids. I trust many more legal organisations and institutions of the Republic of Serbia, because the state, a serious state, rests on healthy institutions. Therefore, I pray that the names of the people responsible for this affair and this scandal, first we do not see in the party reports, then in the tabloids, but to announce you as minister, at the press conference, possibly the prosecutor, the police, but certainly not the tabloids and, of course, to speak in the context of what Mrs. Zlata Djeric said. Today, 150,000 people, 70,000 children and their parents were harassed for the second time in this hellish heat, taking the exam, some professors also. There are already reasonable doubts that there have been problems with the Serbian language test. There are reasonable doubts that we are unable to show this fight against corruption in practice, apart from loud announcements that we are fighting corruption. What is this, corruption? Well, somebody didn't give this to someone for fat cakes. Of course someone took advantage of him for giving these tests. It is up to the investigative authorities to establish this, on that political party who swears to fight its political struggle, its political engagement is based primarily on the fight against corruption and to show it in practice, not to say that Mr. "announces" every time with a silent voice and says who will be arrested. That's nice, but I'd like Mr. "announce" to come out now and say -- this way, he can't announce what's going to happen, but to get a report on what's ever happened now is a real government reconstruction, as announced after Vidovdan, to see who in that government can stay, if he can't stay in that government. Otherwise, it will all come down to announcements, a list of good wishes and pre-election promises. That silent voice, where the voice, with its fingers, will be spoken, has happened, and then the voice will be heard even less, so as not to wake up the radical within it; therefore it is silent and speaking. I'm calling again the question I said yesterday - if there's one president in one country... (Serb Progressive Party emissaries, from the post: Theme! ( b) What are you nervous about? Here, I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18643	People's MP, please, without direct communication and on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18644	Thank you. If a president bought a diploma in one country, why wouldn't the kids in our country buy test solutions? If one president of a country could buy a diploma and, despite the reasonable doubt, did not say that the diploma had come, then why would the law, since I hear the issue, in Article 25, paragraph 6 we have a plan to prepare for the final exam? What's the plan for the final exam? You're saving up in September, October, November and December, in June break down a bank of pigs and buy tests on the street? Is that a theme? Is that what you want me to say? You understand that? Let's make a deal, do you understand that? So if we are preparing a child for the final exam in Serbia by saving in September, October, November and December, and by investing in the purchase of tests in May, and only those who can pay for the tests will have education available in Serbia, do you understand? Is that a fight against corruption? Is that what Alexander Wolf is talking about? Bring your colleagues here, Tomislav Nikolic, and let's see how he graduated. Does anyone from college know him? Let's hear it after she was a diploma.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18645	People's MP, for the second time, I'm asking that we have the content of the discussion on the search in detail. People's MPs Vuceta Toskovic and Marko Atlagic want to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You'll get your word. Since it is my obligation to take care of order at the session, respecting what is happening in the hall and outside the hall, then I ask you, since both the MP and Marko Atlagic and the MP Zlata Djeric and MP Srdjan Milivojevic spoke about the subject of the admission exams, that whoever wants to ask for a replica, because either they will speak or no one will talk about the topic that is not on the agenda. If you wish to clarify through replicas, as did MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and MP Janko Veseinović, every two minutes with the minister, all of what you have as information on the subject of public interest, then I ask you to look for a replica. Everyone else, if they're answering for a word, please talk about an amendment that's under review. It's mine to inform you that, in accordance with Article 27. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, so to be chaired by a session, all have the opportunity to say within the framework of the replica what they consider to be current, and everyone else has an obligation, according to the Rules of Procedure, to speak on the subject of the agenda. National MP Vuceta Toskovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18646	The infringement of the Rules of Procedure is Article 107. The chairman, you violated order in the Serbian Parliament because you allowed one of the DS members to talk about something else, not the amendment that was on the agenda. We can't disrespect the president or anyone at the moment when it comes to the amendment. We could ask the gentleman who talked about some diplomats if, when and where he graduated and where he went to rebel against the people of the world, so let's see where we left off. Madam Chairman, you've injured Article 107. You can't let us have two arches. It's obvious here that there are two arches, that someone who's from a position is breaking up, and who's from the opposition to be allowed to talk all day. So it's about the amendment, it's not about Tomislav Nikolic, Alexander Vukic or Vuceti Toskovic. Let's stop what happened yesterday, because we've been talking about it all day. It happened, the authorities will come to the conclusion and see who's to blame, to stop, to talk about the points of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18647	There is no harm to the Rules of Procedure, because the MP has been warned that the content of his speech is appropriate, as MPs Marko Atlagic and MP Zlata Djeric have not even been interrupted, where the first of the exams mentioned in the case spoke for four and a half minutes, and a folk letter for seven minutes. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Please all follow the course of the session. Of course, everyone is willing to consider the style of another MP inappropriate. It's mine to remind you that if you want to talk about the current topic, which is also of interest to the MPs... (Marko Atlagic, from the place: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. I told you you'd get your word. If you look at Article 103, the chairman is obliged to give an explanation. I follow the Rules of Procedure very strictly. As soon as I'm finished with the explanation asked of me by MP Vučeta Toskovic, you will get the word you're talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure does not serve to tell everyone what is at our heart, but to hold order at the session of the National Assembly, so I ask you not to throw it away, because I can forget what I wanted to explain to MP Vuketi Toskovic and then we have a problem all of us. So, who wants to talk about the current topic please just say he's looking for a replica. Two minutes is not much to maintain order in the assembly session, and it is enough for everyone to say what they consider significant. The minister is quite in the mood to talk. National MP Marko Atlagic has the right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18648	Thank you, Madam Chairman, for giving me your word at all. What I'm about to talk about, I'm referring to a member that no one has called, which is article 106. I'll quote it for the public and the MPs. It's not up to you as chairman to explain to me what I'm going to say in advance. Article 106. "The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. "Two days and more Mr. Milivojevic is constantly leading us to other points of the agenda. Well, it's not on the agenda for the president of the state and Mr. Vukic. What does that have to do with anything? I can understand that you favor a little opposition, but so much that you insult the president of the state as an institution or vice president of the government, it's out of your mind. Well, it's not on the agenda. Let's put it on the agenda and then analyze it. That's it. Thank you if you follow the Rules of Procedure in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18649	I repeat, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I totally understand that the style of one of the MPs doesn't like the style of another MP, but that still doesn't mean that anyone is offended. If you consider it a strict violation of the Rules of Procedure, or a strict adherence to the Rules of Procedure, that no one in this Assembly says the name of anyone from the Government, then we all have a much bigger problem than you think the Rules of Procedure has been broken, and it is not. National MP Veroljub Arsic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18650	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I understand some fellow MPs that, perhaps in the heat of their political struggles, they exaggerate some time in their presentation, but if they do it more than once, we can't interpret that it was an accident and we can't interpret that it wasn't malicious. I also don't mind the MP speaking and expressing himself in the way he thinks he's the best, but also, the subject of the agenda is not the same as the agenda. The agenda is the law. Now the second question is, if DS was in power at a time when the incumbent president of the Republic graduated, why didn't she cancel that degree and arrest him as the man who bought the diploma? One simple question. You were in power. Why didn't you examine that? Or, you seemed to be interrogating me, and yet, an educational inspection, while you were in power and you couldn't find any illegality, and then it's crazy, then it's tending, then it's corrupt, nothing else. There was no purchase of a degree and you know it very well, but during your government there was a kidnapping. Kidnapping from the citizens in every way possible, wherever you are. That's why I won't be surprised if after the next election, or in the next election for you, it's a problem for you to skip the 5% censorship with the stick.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18651	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic is looking for a replica. I ask both MPs that for another round of replicas, this section of the replica session, which concerns other executive bodies in the state, will be completed. Calculate to exchange arguments twice. MP Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18652	Thank you, Madam Chairman. The Democratic Party has never been a driver to anyone in this country. The Democratic Party has always tried to have institutions in this country, and together with the state, we have built institutions. The institution's task is to check all the allegations. Of course, did anyone trade in the Patriarchy for a two-ar apartment, so if someone didn't answer for it, what would be responsible for the possible purchase of a diploma? If someone did not respond because of what he was doing tripping Serbia on the way to the EU, if someone did not respond because of the fact that visas were introduced to Serbia, if someone did not respond because this country was bombed, that hundreds of thousands of people were left without their homes, if someone did not respond because some people in this country did not lose their property, but because of their lives, if someone did not respond because Serbia's youth died in pointless wars, and that he was a voluntary donor of other people's blood in wise and victorious wars, so do you think that we are now calling someone for graduation? The guy we're calling for a diploma on the "Serb's Position" show didn't know how to say that he had a degree's work. I suggest that if he ever manages to remember his degree's work here in this House, he'll get a Ph.D. right away, we'll be a committee to give him a doctorate, because you say that DS for the sake of the former government was supposed to check out his diploma. It's not the work of the DS, it's not the former government, it's neither our honor nor our honor. Having the president of the state as we have, but we will never say – your country president, as you spoke of Boris Tadic. That's unfortunately our president of the state. It is the mirror of the Republic of Serbia in front of the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18653	Thank you. MP Veroljub Arsic. Right on the line, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18654	One thing I have to agree with you. Tomislav Nikolic is the president of all Serbian citizens. For the first time since multi-party, parliamentaryism has been introduced in Serbia, Serbia has a Serbian president who is the president of all Serbian citizens and is not party president. He's not even a member of the SNS anymore. When you talk about the lives of citizens and pointless wars, you forget that Mr Tomislav Nikolic was only in the government in the 1990s for two years and that he spent the rest as an opposition MP who was arrested. When you mention institutions and where are those institutions? What have you done with the judiciary, what have you done with the prosecutions, how have you reformed them, how have you thrown 800 judges out of work, how do you not wonder how your President of the Supreme Court of Cassation has written 800 resignations without explanation, and 800 cancellations with the same explanation? It's a shame. Are those your institutions? Is that how you built them? Who tripped Serbia to the European road? Does SNS, Mr Tomislav Nikolic and Aleksandar Vukic, or DS, because you cannot join the EU with corruption and crime? They don't want you there, they don't want you. They don't want to give you another dime. That's why you drove the IMF away in February of 2012. It's not us, it's you. What kind of state did you get when you came to power in 2007? What condition did you leave it in? Look at the course of the euro that was when you came to power, which was when you left. More than 50% bigger. (President: Two minutes. ) These are your results and you boast about it. There is a saying in the people, which is a wise thing to be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18655	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about the amendment to article 25? No, I don't. ) On Article 25 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Gordana Comić and Maja Vidinović submitted together to Article 25 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Gordana Komic and Maja Vidinović. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 26th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajić, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Zarko Korac. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18656	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is where the difference between the programme and the measure is set. A programme proposed by the LDP, which is a programme to prevent schoolboys from debilitating, and measures to prevent students from being disincentived, which is proposed by the Government in Article 25 of this Bill proposal. The LDP amendment with this programme we are looking for has been rejected by reason because Article 25 provides for measures. When you think about what this means – the programme, then we can conclude that the programme is something that provides for a more long-term strategy. It's someone looking into the future and it's solving problems for some longer period of time. When we look at what it means – the measure, it is clear that it is an ad hoc solution and that it is an extorted solution that does not have that power to really make it impossible for students to be dwindled on a longer period of time. Serbia has very many illiterate citizens, very many functionally illiterate citizens, very few with the VSS. Isn't it more logical and clever to make a strategy that will make it impossible for her to give up her schooling? We have too many marginalized students, we have too many poor students, we have too many poor students and children. They are the very part of the population that may stop schooling, which will remain somewhere on the edges of society still poor and unable to move themselves from that position of social losers. So, if we talk about basic education, then we have to keep in mind and that fact that it should be far more effort to invest in this segment of the functioning of basic education, which is that in every way, students in schools are kept, even if they were Roma and at least they were from different marginalised groups, such as poor children. I remind you that today we have 200 thousand children somewhere on the verge of hunger, so extremely poor children. Irony is fate, and it is truly absurd that we here today are discussing basic education, a law that has a certain goal ahead of it, which is to improve this basic education and in general to improve the educational structure of Serbian citizens, and in practice something else is actually happening, and that is to fake exams, to question this graduation that is under way. I really think it is necessary to establish everyone's responsibility, including the responsibility of those who are at the top of the hierarchy of this chain of primary education and education of students, and at the top is the minister, or the Ministry of Education. It's not naive at all. You, Mr. Minister, have an objective responsibility. This isn't about whether you knew or didn't know. You just had to warn everyone what's going on today, and it's scandalous about faked that little graduation. So it's her objective responsibility. Unfortunately, Serbia has a strong experience in identifying the real causes of various scandals and affairs that rock this society. One of the very serious scandals and the affair is the index affair several years ago, 88 people were charged in the affair. None of these 88 were responsible for the various forms of corruption that were put on them. So, there is a possibility that even the procedures become obsolete and what is more, some of these people have progressed, some have become deans of the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, someone has become advisor to the President of the Republic and a denominator of medals and medals. So is this how we treat all scandals that represent only some kind of public resistance to everything that this government does wrong? If these scandals become public, the public has insight into these scandals, but the public has no ability to react and do anything to get an epilogue that is meant for serious corruption affairs. And this is a corruption affair. I don't believe someone in altruism did what he did, faked those exams. I expect responsibility. As many MPs today have expressed this expectation, and this responsibility must indeed be clearly established and clearly shown and done in a clear and just manner. So it's not just a criminal responsibility. It is necessary to establish every responsibility, because it has been enough that our students, our generation who will represent those people who will develop this Serbia in the future, that water, etc., bear the greatest consequences of the current incompetence of this government. Think about it. It's not all about whether you're going to prescribe some measures or you're going to determine a program, that finally, and that basic education is available to everyone, and not only to those who can be educated, but not to those who are most at risk in this society.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18657	Five minutes and 40 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18658	Let me agree with Mrs. Judith Popovic. As far as I'm concerned, I would accept this amendment. It's a good amendment and it needs to be accepted for a number of reasons she's listed. By the way, I'm just saying, we need to feed some of them here and help them, like Milivojevic, to get the party to that extent, so that in Futoga we've got votes for the local community, there's no Democrats anywhere. Millyvoy, it's a good thing you're acting like one. You won't be anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18659	National MP, article 27 obliges me... (Wolceta Toskovic, from the place: What is your obligation? First, please don't throw it out of the bench. This obliges me to give you a warning, for so says the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's forbidden to throw from the bench. Article 27 obliges me to do something completely different, to take care of the agenda, at the same time I worry that all MPs know what their rights and obligations are, so that your request to speak about the agenda and to speak in a decent manner about the representatives of the executive government in the state, only in legends can be placed in the rule of quod facet hunting, non-lytt bovi, here – which is allowed Jupiter, is allowed for all. You can't at the same time call for someone else to follow the rules that you think you can break. I ask you not to do this, as I ask all the Members of the People that if they want to talk about the topic of admission exams and the topic of the topic that touches all of us here and outside, they are looking for two minutes of replication. The minister will answer to everyone, I guarantee you that. Don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. I really ask that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure and that you do not force me to share information of this kind more often than is clearly necessary. Do any of the MPs want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18660	The Honorable Chairman, Article 27, you have been injured. Why? Because Article 27 obliges you to take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure. You're breaking the entire Rules of Procedure. Please explain to me where you found a foothold in the Rules of Procedure on your question – who wants to talk about the current topic, report for the replica? Find me a foothold in the Rules of Procedure. You're opening up a new, completely out of the Rules of Procedure story and you're actually contributing to people talking off topic, and then you're warning them not to. You don't respect the Rules of Procedure. I know you know it by heart from beginning to end, but please, I have worked on this Rules of Procedure in all my previous groups, and I remember some of it, too, find a foothold in the Rules of Procedure to ask – who wants a replica on the current topic. Otherwise, that each Rules of Procedure corresponds to the current government, it's perfectly normal, it's nothing that causes a replica of anyone. Please take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18661	The member you quoted is in the second position of the basics, if you were in the O.R., and if you did not, you can see in the stenogram that I called on the 27th member who commits to adjudicating on the agenda. Why did I mention the replica? Because giving a replica is a discretionary right of the chairman. The chairman decides whether the replica will be given or not, because he's so worried about anyone who needs to, who wants to, and gets the word, without losing the continuity and that everyone has the same right to say what they have. This session is being held by MPs from all MPs, part of their presentations of dedication or amendment, or a general view of the law, and part of what we all care about, and us in this room and us in this room. Trying not to be denied to anyone, I said that part of the topic, which is not related to the agenda, is going through replicas, having co-operation. To that end, the basis for this is Article 27 and a member who defines the right to give replicas. This is, therefore, not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, but if you consider it inappropriate for aging and, while respecting your experience in the Assembly, from this moment on, we will have a strict application of Article 106 and will be discussed exclusively on the agenda. That's the ageing of Article 27, which I am now informing the National Assembly, because the MPs do not want to be heard through replicas, or any other word about a subject that is otherwise interested in people. This is where I serve my order at the session. Please let us all look at Article 106, because MP Milisav Petronijevic has the full right to seek strict respect for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please don't throw it away. National MP Olga Batic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18662	You finally gave me your word after half an hour, I have to notice. I was just about to advertise a violation of article 106, to finally continue this debate on exactly the points that are on the agenda today, which is the debate on details. I have to agree with what Mr. Petronijevic said. You can't talk here through replicas about current topics, and if you want to schedule a special session...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18663	People's MPs, the right to get word for the breach of the Rules of Procedure is if it is a new violation of the Rules of Procedure, not the one carried out by Milisav Petronijevic. Are any of the other MPs reporting for breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) National MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18664	Injury of Article 109. I'm going to say again that you two archbishops have people's MPs, no matter what you're a good theorist and a good acquaintance of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and many other things, but you're wrong. Here it is said: a reminder is given to a people's messenger who approached the speaker without permission...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18665	People's messenger, no one has been warned. If you want to give someone a warning, it can't be your request. The warning statement is, unfortunately, the responsibility of the chairman. Please do not abuse the Rules of Procedure and the right to receive your word to speak of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Anyone else want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (No) (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Replica. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic is looking for a replica. I am sorry, MP, it is a completely unique position of the MPs of the National Assembly that there is no need for replication and for MPs to say anything beyond the agenda, both for you and for all other MPs. Once again, Article 106. - on the agenda. I remind you that it is my duty to make warnings the moment the MP is lost from the agenda. If we're going to respect it strictly, we're going to respect all the provisions strictly. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) National MP Srdjan Milivojevic wants to talk about the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18666	Your Honor, Madam Chairman, I am advocating the violation of Article 104 since I have been directly mentioned by the name and last name of one of the Members of the People...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18667	National MP, the right to replica is the President's discretionary decision. It can't be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. This right was given to the chairman, so that order could be maintained at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you. It is also strictly against the rules of the Rules of Procedure to throw away. I'm asking the MPs, I know all your names, I'm asking you not to throw them away. I thank another MP, Milisav Petronijevic, no better than the strict application of the Rules of Procedure. The 26th Amendment was submitted by National MP Ana Novkovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18668	Thank you. Article 26. Taxes on what the school programme should contain. That's good because we see that, apart from education, the educational role of the school is highlighted, as well as its connection with other institutions in the local community. That's good, school can't be one isolated system. I would possibly add here, which is why I have submitted the amendment, that the school program also includes an inclusive education and education support programme. There's been a lot of talk about inclusion today, and we've debated a lot about it. Inclusion is, in fact, an exam for the whole society. The adoption of this amendment will ensure that those children also receive quality education, on the one hand. On the other hand, this would help schools implement the inclusion. As I said before, the school in this process cannot possibly be alone. Through this programme of supporting inclusive education, they could either seek out assistants, or seek out tailored teaching tools for these children. That's why I think an integral part of the school's programme should be an inclusive education support programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18669	Anyone else want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted to the 26th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenović and joint MPs Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18670	I'll be brief about this amendment. This is actually the added 10th principle in the design of the school program. I would like to thank the Minister for the government's adoption of this amendment. I think that at the same time the teachers, or the Union of Teachers of the Republic of Serbia, should also be thanked, because they asked for this principle to enter into the text of the law. I think it's a good principle, to respect the terrible characteristics of the psychophysical development process. Ensuring conditions for living and working in school is very important. Later, in the next amendment, we will discuss why it is important for the work and functioning of the school itself. I thank you again and I think this is a good way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18671	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 29th amendment was submitted by the people sent by Dusan Obradovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 30th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18672	The amendment related to student standards in the department has been submitted by a large number of MPs from nearly all parliamentary groups, and I don't think it should be kept secret, it's a public matter, on the initiative of the Union of Teachers of Serbia. The Union of Teachers of Serbia has put it quite well, defending the number of students in the department, by limiting to 25 students, with a lot of good pedagogical reasons. I think the largest number of MPs and accepted, for these reasons, the profession, to attach an amendment with that intensity. What remains, however, for further discussion and which needs to be done to the public, and through the debate on these laws, is the same union request. However, the argument here is no longer pedagogical and if there is, and I don't think it's a dispute for the Ministry, I sincerely hope, a pedagogical foundation. In addition, it is one of the intensities of the education development strategy in Serbia, and related to perspectives. The union charge in this request shows that the actual problem is the material status of teachers, i.e. the fear of possible technological surpluses in education, and that by increasing the number of departments, which would have been achieved by reducing the number of students in the department, would have created a space for a greater number of teachers in educational practice, just as, if they gave up funding percapito and kept intensities, which is also unional, financing by the department additionally and financially earned, which is legitimate trade union intensity. I think that we should not go over this agenda point in the context of pedagogical and normative situations in the education process itself without looking back on this union demand and the perspective of dialogue on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18673	Two minutes and 50 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18674	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, at first I must say the following from the Pedagogical, for trade union reasons, and for the sake of quality education, to limit the number of students to 25. I'm a big fan of it. I must say, Mr. Minister, you hesitated me in the principle debate when you said that there are no material and spatial reasons for that right now. If I'm not mistaken, you were even talking about the numbers of the departments, etc. So, we're in one situation, we limit the number of students to 25, I don't know if anyone for pedagogical reasons in Serbia could argue with that, if anyone could not support it. If I understand that, Mr. Minister, in a statement in the principle debate, you said you stood up for it. What's the matter with me? The fluctuation makes me a strong argument that you've made -- it's good people, it's nice, but we don't have the conditions of this moment to do it. If that's the case and I'll support that attitude for one reason, let's be realistic, don't adopt something we can't implement. To banalize things, don't lie to the people so we can do it. So that's my dilemma and strong argument, only that, in these conditions, in this time, in this economic situation, there are no such conditions for it. Anything else, absolute support would be to be implemented. What I want, too, to support, which is the direction, the goal, which you have set when it comes to the education strategy, to achieve that goal by 2020. It also means the obligation to create conditions to do so. So, to get into a situation, to create conditions that can limit the number of students to 25 in the department. And I was in a dilemma when there was a debate about it, and somehow it got the impression that someone in this bill was offering a worse solution than it was. Then I did a little searching and I found, and you, Mr. Minister, correct me if I'm not speaking correctly, which is that the solution so far was up to 30, and a maximum of 34. It's an extremely 34, though, which actually became a rule. So it's reduced by that, it's no more 34, but it's a maximum of 30. It's already one step ahead. When it comes to combined departments, for two classes it was a maximum of 20, now it's 15. It was a maximum of 15, now it's 10. So I came to the conclusion that, in fact, this solution that is offered is a solution that is possible in these economic conditions in which our country is located, but that it does not make the situation worse. Even if I'm not wrong about the draft law on basic education and education and ultimately, when I'm talking about principle debate, it's good first that it's not called the elementary school law, it's called the Law on Education and Education. In the end, the proposal that the previous government, in which you were the minister, proposed, about January 2012, had the same solution. What do I mean? If there wasn't an impression in the public that something worse was now offered, something worse, but I am clearly and supportive of what you want in this whole situation, leading a very strong, huge system at a time when there's no money, there's nothing, when it's courage and it's leading it and it's keeping it safe, and you're going to go out and you're going to say it like that – it's a nice proposal for people, we'd all support it, but we can't do it now because there's no material and spatial conditions. So I remain advocacy, but I will respect your argument, which is quite strong, that there are no such opportunities at this time, and thank God, you will eventually be obliged to create such opportunities that it can be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18675	Six minutes and 15 seconds used by the MP's group. National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic, has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18676	As the applicant of this amendment, I can understand it, but I will ask for something because of the teachers, as well as the Union of Teachers of the Republic of Serbia insisted. I expected a more bile debate at this point, even more bile than these others that were during today. I think this is a key question - what do we have to agree on? So we asked him not to be in the department more than 25 and not less than 18 students. Just to take care of some rationality. Now you've made it clear that the spatial reasons don't allow that kind of thing to be done right now, but from this debate, I understand that you're advocating such a solution, which I also welcome. I just want you to clarify here both to us and to everyone who would like to, to say, be involved in this topic -- what are you planning to do in the next year, or two, or three, to actually live as some legal solution in some future period? What are these steps that the Ministry is going to take, so that really the number of students in the department is not greater than 25? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18677	The word has the People's MP Miodrag Stojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18678	I thank Madam Chairman, and like the rest of my colleagues, we are really wondering why this amendment has not been adopted, and that is because it has been proposed by six different parliamentary groups. So this wasn't really one political question, it was one national question. Why? Because that's what the strategy says, we adopted that strategy, and we agreed that by 2020. We should respect that, especially when we know that, on the basis of this strategy, you have rejected one amendment to Article 18. We're a little bit in line with some decisions here, we use that strategy when it suits us to refuse some amendments, and then we use it to adopt some amendments. Either we're equal under all the amendments or we're not. On the other hand, your explanation is that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that there are no material and spatial conditions. I couldn't agree more. We're a very poor country. But what we need to understand is that we are a poor country by the number of children. We've lost 120,000 children in the last 10 years. If you put all that stuff on paper, how many on average students go to one school, instead of those 200 schools that were closed, it was supposed to close 600 schools. We come into one situation to maintain a number of students without maintaining a network of schools properly. There's no rational use of all these schools. As I recall, the government adopted criteria for the network, especially those primary schools. So we could put this amendment, that the number of students per class is 25 and that we all go that way together and get to that goal in 2020. I would appeal to you both on behalf of my parliamentary group and on behalf of the other five parliamentary groups to accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18679	Two minutes and five seconds used by a time-authorized representative of the parliamentary group. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18680	On the occasion of this amendment, I think that from the pedagogical point he was perfectly set up, really the way the history of pedagogy in the past has worked, starting even from ancient times to today. So pedagogical is the most optimal solution of up to 25 students. Maybe it's even more optimal than 20 students in four grade primary school and up to 25 from fifth to eighth grade. However, when we apply it to our education system, so we are explained, and we, who do little education and education figures, if we apply it now in Serbia, would immediately get a number of "excess" departments and extra education workers, it is a huge number. Why? Because some schools have over 30 and even 40 in Belgrade, to be open, with 40 students, and in primary schools, so-called. Dwarf schools, as we say in pedagogue, schools with one or two or five students. This increases the financial budget, breaks the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and that is indeed true. From that aspect of the budget, really, when it's going to be applied I don't know, but my opinion, to be objective, I don't think it's going to be in the near future, given the economic situation of the country we're in. I think it's a good idea for this to remain in the law now because on average we now have 19.5, let the minister correct me, the student average. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18681	The word has a folk MP Ana Novkovic, then MP Milan Lapčević, and after that, MP Nebojsa Zelenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18682	Thank you. I would also support the amendment if there were 25 students in the class. If we want modern and quality education, we really need to have fewer students in the department and that's really pedagogical. To use modern methods of work, forms of work, teaching tools, if we want children to be able to apply knowledge, what they learn, then it's really much easier and more efficient to work with a smaller number of students in the department. However, I am deeply aware of the situation Serbia is in and that, unfortunately, I must say, there is no money for such a thing. I would ask the Minister, and the Strategy says so, that in the next period, when financial and economic conditions are acquired, this issue is reconsidered and that we allow our departments to have an optimal number of students with whom teachers can work with quality quality and to pay each student the same attention he deserves. I sincerely hope that in the coming period, within a year, there will be a law in the congregation that will amend this member and that there will be up to 25 students in the departments. I welcome the fact that with 34 students in the department down to 30, but simply all together, because of our children, our education, we should work to make the department smaller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18683	One minute and 45 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18684	I would like to join this debate that colleagues from different parliamentary groups have led so far in favour of reducing the maximum number of students in the department to 25. I understand the explanation the ministry gave, that they are also spatial, and particularly financial opportunities such that at this point it is not realistic that they can be implemented, but I would disagree with it. Why? Because the only resource that one society has is an educated man, is knowledge. If we put it as a priority, as a goal, there is no limit and there is no reason – there is no means. Nothing will produce more value and progress to society than knowledge. There can't be a fence, there can't be a limit, there can't be an explanation – we don't have the means. The only way to multiply these funds in the future and increase social standards is to invest in knowledge. I'll give you an example of Finland. I accidentally met one of our fellow citizens who went to Finland 20 years ago and told her experiences. It says – Finland is a country with no great natural resources, mostly north, no oil, no ore, only have lakes and a little forest. They literally don't have any of the natural resources, and they have one of the best standards in the world. What is this standard based on? Perfect education. Everything is subject to education. Everything is subordinated to children. It's yours to have a child, the state takes the responsibility to take care of him as he grows up, to buy him books and drive him to school and buy him a computer and organize his class, literally everything. That's why they have very highly educated people, it's averagely high compared to other countries, but they have a lot of educated people and they base their development and their high standard on high-tech and knowledge. So, the fence that we don't have enough money for education, we're spinning around in circles. If we don't have money for education, we'll never have money, because that education can bring money. The problem is, and counterpart Atlagic said the average number of students is 19.5, which is less than 25, but is not the problem. If that 19.5 was in every department, then it would be ideal, but it's not. Let's go where there's too few students, 12, 13 to measure to 20, then we're going to have that average of 25 and we're going to have a better education. The more money you invest in a quality education system, the more chance you have of getting society out of a crisis. Everything else is an empty story and a patching of holes from today to tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18685	Three minutes and 25 seconds used from the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18686	Thank you. I've reported back on this amendment. It was very important for me to hear what the other colleagues said and that's why I want to talk about what Mr. Atlagic said now. So this is now a classic indicator of how messy we are, as a state, because what is a problem in Belgrade, that you have a lot of students in the department and that because you have to build a new school to meet the teaching standard, is not a situation in the rest of Serbia. That's why we're an unsettled state. Everyone wants to live in Belgrade, it's easier to get a job here, pregnant women here have 100% compensation, so it's easier to have a child, so they get double textbooks, so now there's a school building missing. So let's reorganize something different, try to change the system, see what we really need. People in Vojvodina have different needs than people in Belgrade and different living conditions from people in this part of Serbia. We don't have that problem. We want a quality class for our children, which includes up to 25 students in the department. We don't have a problem with buildings. So in schools in this part of Serbia, people drag children into schools just to have enough for the department. What extra space and stuff? We're fighting now that this child has as much quality teaching as possible, and you're telling us that he can't because there are ten schools in downtown Belgrade that are overbooked. It's your fault they're overbooked. You made it possible for them to choose who goes to school, to choose if everyone will go downtown and that everyone lives in downtown Belgrade and that everyone will go to schools in the city. Give the rest of us a chance to learn something, when we don't already have the privilege of living in Belgrade. So do something for children who don't live in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18687	It was used two minutes from the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Minister Zarko Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18688	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. They repeat what I have already said in the debate in the principle of these laws and what all MPs who have participated in the debate have mentioned so far. It's a common desire for both you and me to have the number of students up to 25, but at this point we don't have the opportunity, at this point we don't have any material, no spatial possibilities. Guys, you have to understand that this is the actual state of affairs now in 2013. We in the Strategy promoted this goal by 2020. At this point we have an elementary school level of 585,544 students, the number of classes is 30,893, the average is 19.1. Of course, the demographic situation and the mechanical inflow of the population in certain city centers, that's the problem of larger city centers, that's the problem and the number of students over 25, it exists in these larger city centers. If we look at the structure of the number of students in primary schools, we have up to five students, we have 1,045 departments up to five students. It seems to me that your amendment suggests that there is no department with less than 18, because you have given an amendment that is slightly different from others, not only the top number, but also the bottom number. You mentioned at least 18 and 22 at the most. Then all of these departments would have to practically close or create a combined department or group them, and then cause some other kind of problem. This is not about your amendment, it's about the state of Serbia in general. From six to ten students we have 2.586 departments. From 11 to 15 students at the primary education level, we have 3,205 departments. From 16 to 25 students we have 15,397 departments. From 26 to 30 students we have 37,513 departments, and more than 30 students have 1,145 departments. So, when we look at the total figures at the level of primary education, in primary schools in the Republic of Serbia up to 15 students there are 22% - 6.835, between 16 and 25 students there are 50% departments – 15.393 and over 25 students have 8,660 departments. It's on the level of primary education. At the level of secondary education, the average of students in the class is higher, at 24.4%. From zero to 25 students have 6,018 departments, and more than 25 students have 25,755 departments. This problem you mentioned is not only a problem for Belgrade, it is also a problem for some other city centres. Otherwise, the biggest problem is New Pazar, where she has the highest number of children in her class. We need to build new schools and create space for those kids. It's no secret. But at this point, it is a common desire for all of us and, as counterpart Atlagic mentioned, if the profession, the profession says that 25 is an ideal number, and it says, our strategic goal is to achieve this goal in the coming years. It will be possible when we have more money, because at this point going out to meet that request implies objectively and increasing the number of employees and more space. So far we've had a legal solution that the number of students can be 30, up to 34, and now we've limited to 30, which of course means that it can be 25 and 24 and 23 and 22, there's no question of the bottom number. At this point, we have an active situation that of the 42,660 departments 14,415 has more than 25 students, which is 33.8% or 1/3 of the total number. I mentioned elementary and high school. If at the level of primary and secondary schools we reduced this number of students over 25 and had an ideal number of students per 25 in the class, we would have practically several thousand new departments. If you take those 14,415 departments and you take only the smallest number of five students, from 26 to 30, that's 72,000 students. When you divide that by an ideal number, we get 2,883 departments. Of course, in practice, that number of departments would probably be higher, because they can't achieve ideal figures if they're up to 25. It's estimated that there'd be more of these departments, maybe up to 3,500. This would objectively lead to an increase in the number of executives, teachers and other school employees. So when we look at both levels of education, the number of classes would increase and the number of perpetrators would increase. In this case, our assessment at the Ministry is from 7,500 to 8,000, and most of them would not be engaged in the order of existing technological surpluses, because it is not an ideal situation and the question is whether one school administration can find one of the technological persons employed by that profile that may be needed for a school in question. We will have to solve this problem in the years to come, of course, taking into account what local self-government will do with the network of schools and what we will do at the level of the Republic, as the Ministry's obligation to make criteria for the school network, do in the coming years, just to achieve the goal you set, assuming that the economic situation will improve and that we will then have enough money, because somewhere space is not a problem. You say we have primary schools working on one shift, but we also have environments where there are schools that work and three shifts. It is a characteristic of the current education system, but we will have to solve this problem and, of course, in the perspective of fulfilling the obligation we set in the Strategy, that the number of students in the department be up to 25. At this point, we are unable to meet this requirement for material and spatial reasons, and I have made an effort to explain it to you. In any case, thank you for agreeing on this issue, because all MP groups feel that it should, of course for educational reasons, not for some others. It would be good if we could do it as soon as possible, but I'm not in a position to say it'll be tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. I share the opinion of my colleague, Novakovic, that it would be a good idea for this law to enter the assembly procedure as soon as possible, whoever it is that it is proposed, to be adopted as soon as possible, to be part of our reality in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18689	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18690	Thank you. Mr. Minister, thank you for this series of numbers that have been unusually difficult to write down. If I understand correctly, about 50% of schools have fewer than 25 students, as much as 70%. So we have 30% of schools where the problem is that we have more than 25 students. It seems to me that this is freely crying out for the reorganisation of the education system. So to calculate very precisely, in these 70% schools there are some teaching staff and there is some space that is obviously not maximum used, least said. We have a small number of extra school students who, if calculated, it seems to me that this number of departments, since I haven't been able to hear all of your numbers and how many new departments would that mean, would be 2,800 new departments. I think it's a bit of an odd calculation, but well, I'll find your numbers in the stenogram, so I'll do mine, then I'll suggest how it can be reorganized. It's crying out for reorganization. It cries out for a different observation and problems of space and the problems of the number of employees. That's inevitable. What worries me most about the whole thing is that one unbearable ease of treating time. When you say by 2020, it's seven years. Seven years is seven generations, new generations that will enter schools. Seven generations, that's seven times the number of those enrolled in first grade this year. It's seven damaged organizations for a lot of reasons. I'd like you to give this solution that we're discussing here a shorter deadline. Don't 2020, give 2015, that's two years, with one projection to say – by 2015 we'll try to solve 50% of the problems, but then we know that's the problem you're dealing with. I draw your attention to one more thing, it's a suggestion that came from the union. It's the first, one of the few suggestions that deals with quality education. Of course, they especially protect their jobs, we're not naive to not knowing it, but it's good for them to see a chance to save their jobs in the quality of education. Please, like everyone here, our LDP Parliament Club supports this amendment and begs you to consider it and set at least a shorter deadline in which you want to solve at least part of the problem we are facing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18691	Three minutes and 15 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment, in the same text, was submitted by National MP Olgica Batić, joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banović, MP Sasa Milenić and joint MPs Miodrag Stojković, Janko Veseinović and Jovana Mehandzic. Does anyone want a word? The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18692	Thank you very much. I've made some amendments, so I've finally got a word to say something. I probably wouldn't get a word today on any other basis. I'm going to move on specifically to this amendment that I've submitted. I agree and I will propose an amendment and MPs from the Group of MPs together for Serbia and all that Mr Zelenovic has explained. But, Minister, I must say here that if you accept such an amendment, and it is submitted by MPs, in that sense I will repeat myself, it would only result in an improvement and increase in the quality of teaching, as well as more efficiency in the work. You mentioned something you had already discussed in principle. Now if you repeat all that you have stated in the debate in principle, perhaps I can quote you, so there are many of us, including you, talking about some demographic picture of our society, about increased unemployment, about poverty, about a catastrophic economic situation, especially in rural areas, about embarrassing average earnings, about the rate of mortality, etc., then there is justifiably an issue - why do we expect anything to change by 2020? Are we going to rejuvenate as a nation or in so many numbers, so now we're predicting a member like this, a class of 30 students, not a 25-year-old class, as it is, I have to point out, exactly as foreseen in the education strategy? I was in public listening, and I read it in detail. I have to say, that's where it's explicitly listed. I say, for the sake of more pedagogical efficiency, the number of students in the department, in all schools, the number should not be more than 22 to 25 students. Since, in this entire set of all the education laws have just gone into practice in order to imitate this kind of strategy, then if you want a full representation, then you have to accept this one amendment, no matter who it comes from, and it comes from MPs from completely different groups of opposition, of course. I think the necessity of adopting such an amendment is fully explained. I can continue to explain on the subject of this, but everyone here, and you, like the Government, have, in your opinion on this amendment and the reasons why you refuse to accept this amendment, stated that you do not accept such an amendment, and that by the submission of each MP in particular, you have given the same explanation – the lack of material and spatial opportunities. Now, you've mentioned economic conditions, so I have a proposal for you, which is that you tell your colleague in the government, the finance minister, to resign, so maybe we create these conditions, and maybe that's how you meet everything that's stated in the strategy, and it won't happen otherwise by 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18693	Since the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, one minute has been used. The word has a folk letter from Donka Banovic, followed by a folk MP, Sasa Milenic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18694	Thank you. I would like to point out that the DSS MPs have also submitted an amendment where we propose that the number 30 be changed by 25 or to reduce the number of students. I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues were already talking about. A colleague may have said a key sentence, that for many years no government has been involved, and no minister of education has engaged in a serious reorganisation, or rationalisation, or change, that is, initiating a change in the network of primary schools in the Republic. I think he's here. The minister now says local self-government is expected to be reasonable, rational in the next new proposal for a network of primary schools in its territory. I don't really hope that much because I know that when local self-governments do it, they don't exactly think rationally, but they try to keep every school that exists in a village, however few students there are, that they try to keep that school for both children and parents. You know what they say, when the school is shut down, then that place doesn't exist anymore. So it's not a problem that's just being watched. Someone said the unions only suggested this because they were afraid of losing their jobs. I can't understand it that way, and I don't understand it as simply because I think union organisations are also as concerned as the Union of Teachers of the Republic of Serbia is about the quality of teaching. I think their motives, among other things, were pedagogical. What could also make it easier for people who work in city schools where there are more than 30 students, I hear from Mr. Atlagic that there are primary schools with 40 students in Belgrade, I haven't really heard about it yet, there may be some students over 30, but if there are 40, I don't think it's possible to maintain such a class and there's no quality at all, but what might help is that, as a result of applying inclusive education in the classroom with 30 students, two students with development or disability are allowed. So, within 32 students, what would help teachers is to really deal with and provide teaching assistants, personal assistants, and that team that works in one school on quality application of inclusive education, that it really be a support to teachers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18695	Three minutes and 10 seconds have been used since the parliamentary group's time. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18696	There's the approach to the nocturnal point that we discussed in principle. Dear Mr. Minister, I was pleased three times, quite intimately, personally, with regard to events at the Ministry of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia through recent history -- the first time the Minister of Education at the Government of Vojislav Kostunica, a professor at Orientalist at the Faculty of Philology, stopped the process of quasi reforming the remains of the Shuvarica, the second time when Minister of Education Mr. Vukanovic publicly stated that he was proud of the assessment of two for Serbian universities, for one test, and the third time when you were elected minister of education. For the first time, I would not explain why stopping this quasireform process was an act of attention and praise. The second time, the minister was replaced as soon as the process stopped, was replaced in the government of Vojislav Kostunica in half. Minister Vuksanovic just didn't have a chance to say that, getting a very low score of two, at an evaluation not measuring the university rating, but the application of the Bologna process at the university, that with a low rating, we ranked in the ranks with the prestigious universities of a Bulgarian or a French, and we failed to reach high grades and the reach of the University of Flaming Community in Belgium. The largest nations in Europe don't even apply Bologna reform to their universities. Of course, he didn't have time to explain it either, Minister Vuksanovic. When you were elected minister, I was happy quite frankly because, no less or less, I know you're a socialist and you're a high-ranking SPS official. That's very important, because I'm not a socialist, you might say I'm some conservative liberal. But the following is undeniable – education is possible only in the coordinates of the olportian humanist concept of emancipation, which belongs to the corpus of socialist prohumanist values. Secondly, if it's not emancipation, it's not education, it's training. And that's what we're talking about here. I've been defending the Ministry of Education all along, not because I don't share the objections of many, but because I don't think you're the address at all, that you're standing between many forces mostly trying to defend the education system, as in this subject you have an obligation of loyalty to the government, so you can't say for yourself that you would be happy to do this, only if you could fight for a little better material status of education in the overall budget. But let's be open to the end. As long as all the lies of this society end up being exposed to the education system, and there's nowhere to go, because that's what we talked about in the principle debate, there's the truth about the community's relationship to the future. A critical moment arises when it is no longer a conflict of the ministry with all the living and inanimate who know or know nothing about education, but are willing to object because they, unlike you, see that the situation is not how you would like it. At some point within the education system, there will be a conflict between the educational staff and the ministry, which is trying all these contradictory tendencies with as little conflict as possible to harmonize. Where, then, when we policy-makers still want to lie and not open the question of what we want for our children? What are the doactic principles of our education? What kind of a man wants this society, and according to that, and what kind of education system? Are we going to the school industry, which seems to be a very thorough push, a small number of large schools, possibly, in as few large centres as possible, and in three shifts, a row of benches, a row of student meat, at the end of the process of the deed, and that's training, mass training. Whoever wants something more, make the money and choose the school, maybe the country where they're going to be educated. Or do we think that emancipation is something that belongs to every child of this society, no matter what village they live in? Because if we decentralize society and bring the world into our country, then every village is the center of the world. It's a question of decentralisation that is central and there's no doubt, the first system where the strain will be measured, all of our social lies and inventions, is the education system. The URS parliamentary group just wants to say that it understands that it is not the Ministry of Education that is a remethylative factor, but that it knows perfectly that it cannot indefinitely delay conflicts, lies and non-transparent conflicts of interest in our society, just the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18697	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18698	Donka Banovic answered the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18699	I'm sorry, Donka Banovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18700	I am very happy to listen to Mr Milanic, it is easy to see that he is a philosopher by education, so sometimes I enjoy his speeches very often, but now I am protesting because he has said earlier that we stop lying about politics. I wrote that down. And today you say the second time – the education industry, then you say: order of benches, order of meat. So, the row of benches are benches, and the order of meat would be students. It burned my ear, and I just don't understand that and that kind of freedom. If the citizens listen to us, and you say that we politicians should stop lying, it's not right. It's possible that all politicians lie and all politicians don't lie, but some of us try a little hard and don't lie too much. Maybe sometimes we just make a mistake. Mostly we try to tell the truth and be correct. Somehow, qualifications are given for the different periods of development of this country and the previous countries that existed on this soil and different periods and reforms, some successful, some failed. You mentioned that "black bum" here, that's what it's called, but maybe if someone were to do a better analysis of that period, maybe there were some positive things. I'm defending myself now. I'm that year and I was a high-school student. I really remember some good things. If nothing else, at least medium professionally, and some of the orientations that were moving earlier, etc. But it's been abandoned and I'm not saying it now, I just think we should be careful when we disqualify it so easily.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18701	Thank you. Mr. Milanic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18702	Dear colleague, just so there's no misunderstanding, the brutal term: "a row of benches, a row of student meat", which I borrowed from my professor of pedagogy, A week of Trnavec, it's based on a critical attitude towards this concept, not on the desire to seduce anyone. My relationship with the so-called "shuvarica" is very similar, so the reforms I spoke of were called "quazireforms" or "shuvarisation" remains. So it was not a negative relationship to the government, which was mentioned, nor the minister's work, but rather the opposite, nor is there a desire for anyone to freak out by a truly rough concept of the education industry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18703	Thank you. Replica, Donka Banovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18704	It's nice when you explain it to both us and the viewers. I'll keep an eye on your previous exposure. You also said that the first minister of education was replaced because she tried to stop the reforms. She was the minister for six months, there were amendments and additions to this roof law and, among other things, the current minister was an MP in the then RS Assembly and, together with all MPs who made up the majority, participated in amendments and additions to the law. I don't think that law has in any way stopped all the good things that have been started by previous laws. So the reform hasn't been stopped. It might be better if it did, but it's not. Then you mentioned Minister Vuksanovic, and he boasted that Serbia had won a two for the Bologna Process. I really don't remember it, if he said it at some point, I'm judging him now, if he boasted of two. I also know how to prick it. It was probably a moment after the Law on Higher Education was adopted or not, so the basic criteria in that period were whether a country had adopted a new law on higher education that respects Bologna principles. It's possible they weren't at that point, and that's why we got a bad grade. The moment the law was passed, the ratings also increased. So I'm glad that Serbia, I mean at the last conference, was even rated by 3.8 around four. It may seem to us sometimes that things in education and education are very bad, but sometimes we really need to be realistic, to see that we're not that bad.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18705	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18706	Two sentences on this amendment, Madam Chairman, I think it is a good thing that we have considered this problem from all the aspects, although there may have been little policy in certain tones, but it is important that we all want the same thing, and this is the number of students up to 25, as Mr. Minister explained. We put it in the strategy and we need to know. I support what Mr Milenic said, that he would not lie to himself, that we will achieve this in the near future, we will not, given the economic situation in which Serbia is today. We won't be in the near future either, but we put into the strategy what we think the ministry did well, but by that year we probably will, so we'll change the law. I have to tell you, you who don't work directly in education and education that the network of schools at local community level is a little higher, especially at the state level, one of the most difficult issues in the education and education system. I am not the one who praises ministers, but I must commend Mr. Obradovic to be well-managed with this part, that it is very difficult to get a network of schools there, you who are from local communities, where we have dwarve schools from one to three students, and the right to education has one student under the same conditions. Create it, you there in this economic situation, I mean that it's very difficult to create that network and that in a given situation it's really optimal now, and the problems that arise in education and education are inevitable. We hire new ones now, here's to be realistic, Mr. Minister, 3,000 teachers, in a situation like this where we have to make savings, that's terrible, and on the other hand we have one student. It is not easy to coordinate the material situation, the network of schools and the quality of education and education. The most optimal thing is to work with five students, just like the West does. Please do not bind entry into the EU and the Bologna Process and the Republic of Serbia. Take it off the agenda, it is not a condition for Bologna in the EU. Bulgaria has joined the EU and is not in the Bologna process. Remember, the Republic of Serbia has had one of the best education and education systems in the world for 15 years, and nobody in Europe or in the world is denying it. So we're not going to change very quickly, but we'd better have a revolution of pedagogy within the pedagogical system, but within the law. The law will solve framework matters, and the pedagogical revolution must be resolved by us, within schools and colleges, and that means we who are conducting the process directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18707	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18708	Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this member of the law, the formation of departments and groups, this could be applied in India, where there is great talent or in the North of Kosovo where it is the greatest nationality in Serbia, 1200 children to be born on an annual level, but since the state defacto has given up territory, I suppose this law will not apply to that part of Serbia's territory. What I was about to say is that as an MP coming from southern Serbia, I am looking at this from social, economical, but also from a demographic aspect, this member of the law, because this member of the law that will apply in some future period, many departments in southern Serbia will be shut down and you know it well. There'll be a technological surplus and by a teacher, a professor. It is very easy for the citizens of Belgrade to say that they have 30 or 34 children in the department, a large inflow of people from central Serbia, southern Serbia, or coming from Vojvodina to Belgrade, conditions are created for them to be 34 children, and perhaps 50 students in the department. What about us and our departments, where the population is permanently moving, where people are leaving southern Serbia. Physics doesn't know about the empty space, someone's gonna move in here. It is precisely the country that needs to think in a strategic way about that part of Serbia, where the permanent population is moving out of that part of the space. So it's certainly easy to work in a department of 25 students and a professor can be much more creative there. I understand, because of the economic crisis, you have to write a law like this, but you have to understand that those of us who come from inside Serbia, that this will shut down many departments in Serbia, that this will not put out the departments in Belgrade, but in Serbia, so if it does not shut down in Belgrade, then we will call this law – the law of primary education for Belgrade alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18709	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18710	Mr. Minister, dear colleagues, normally I support this amendment and I believe that the Republic of Serbia in a series of missed chances and opportunities for a possible reform of our education system, I think that these days, yesterday and today, has reached its peak in our failures. Because of all of this, I think it would be good if more had been done, if more savings had been done, thought through the financial prism of the possibility of reducing the number of departments so that we wouldn't come across the same explanation every time, so that we wouldn't listen to this statement every time, we couldn't because of the money. When we ask Minister Dinkic, he says, he can't because the money is gone, regardless of what I designed a phenomenal budget. What is the fact that the current situation in our education is in an extremely poor state and today most people in Serbia are looking at this transmission, expecting some answers to this really fiasco that happened around the final exam. You told us here to give you evidence. I've got something in my hand that could be evidence, something that you've been offered at the Ministry, but you refused, and it's all three tests in Serbian or possible tests in Serbian, because we can't confirm authenticity, so I'm going to give this to you now, with a request that you confirm that these are Serbian language tests. If these are tests from the Serbian language or their copy, how is it possible that we have them in hand today and that we may have them based on the anonymous delivery of citizens?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18711	Mr Stefanovic, in accordance with Article 106. Rules of Procedure, please return to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18712	I conclude, given the manual for the final exam, which very precisely defines that all tests, i.e. all tests are taken from students. I would like the ministers to take this seriously and this amendment is on the verge of trying to do something about our education system, and not only are we talking about this amendment is in a series of hundreds of amendments that the opposition has submitted, which in the vast majority have been rejected. Please take this seriously, if you give us at this session a confirmation of whether this is authentic, that I would not read here, and if it is authentic, the question is, is the Serbian test under question. If it is a Serbian-language test, it seems to me that all this disaster has won its ugly finale, that the government is under question, and especially your stay as Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18713	The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18714	I call upon the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers, to Article 27 and Article 103, because this is in continuity, but indeed in the continuity of the most severe violation of the Rules of Procedure, which makes it both the president of the DS parliamentary group and the MPs of the DS and yesterday and today, roughly injure the Rules of Procedure, exceedingly deviating from the subject, because the subject is neither tests, nor resignation, nor anything other than a set of educational laws that are part of the agenda. We can understand that this is how certain or trying to score certain political points is achieved. (President: Mr. Jovanovic, please don't replicate. ) It's not a replica, I'm just pointing out that no one is responding, not you, not before you, not even anyone who has chaired, not even told anyone who has hurt anyone in the most harsh way yet, not rarely, very often in the last two days of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I suggest that such abuses can no longer be without sanctions, and I ask you to apply the Rules of Procedure to a specific situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18715	Thank you. I must tell you, Mr. Jovanovic, that I warned Mr. Stefanovic to return to the agenda. I can't give him a warning. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I should give him two warnings before warning. So Mr. Stefanovic finished quickly, so I don't think I hurt a member of the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, to remind you that MPs cannot harm the Rules of Procedure, they can only harm the chairman. If you feel that my argument is not enough, you can ask that in the day to vote on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the place: Yes. Thank you. Furthermore, the next MP, Miletic Mihajlovic, was declared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18716	So, when it comes to the tests that are constantly being mentioned here, I am the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, to make that clear. I really understand the SPS parliamentary group as well as many other groups, that this is a convenient topic for politicisation and for the attack on the ruling coalition, as well as for Minister Obradovic. So, the dimensioning of this question, in such a way that it's now the end of the world, that I don't know what, that the state's collapse, that the whole system is destroyed, that there's no order in the state, it just doesn't stand. I think the minister reacted best in a possible way, and that attitude was adopted or applied that it had to be examined how the math tests came to be "broken", so to speak, and that a certain abuse was committed. It is said here that no one is pushing the problem under the carpet and that we simply have to face that problem, because such a problem can be extended. I wouldn't say that everything worked out in the past in such an ideal way, so now there was a scandal that didn't happen in the past, and while DS was in power, while we were together in power. (President: Mr. Michaelovich, please return to the agenda topic. I'm obliged, in accordance with Article 106 to give you... I'm an authorised representative. Passing the final exam is part of this law. I have my time as an authorised representative. (President: Mr. Mihajlovic, I have just received from a member of your parliamentary group that I have injured the Rules of Procedure because I have not returned the exposure on the subject. So, please, I'm warning you to get back on the subject. I only ask that you do not allow Stefanovic or Milivojevic to use it rightly and others cannot use it. (President: I will not allow anyone else to abuse the Rules of Procedure. So continue on the subject of the agenda. ) I will finish and return, through this law we are trying to regulate a system of values that is generally acceptable and universal and that is within the framework of what should be the future of this country. The system of values has been damaged for many years during the 1990s, but also since 2000. All of us have been a little bit of a cultivator and at all the social climate that is now ruling in Serbia and that the greatest value is if we cheat on someone, if we jump on someone, and that's where the ability has been shown. The general tendency of this ruling structure is also in this law, which is set up at the Ministry of Education, headed by Mr. Minister Obradovic, to arrange such a system and finally enter into the frameworks of values that we must respect and which will provide a brighter future for our young generations. I'm afraid that from 2000 until 2012, there was little concern about it, of course, critically speaking, and we were complicit in it because we were part of the ruling coalition, but we are aware that we need to change course and direction at last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18717	Thank you. Mr. Stefanovic, you will not be entitled to a replica, you can only talk about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18718	Before I begin to beg the President's interpretation, since I've been mentioned by name and the party is mentioned, do I have the right to reply?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18719	You have the right to a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18720	So, without wanting to enter any unnecessary passions here, we respond to the Minister's initiative personally and the head of your parliamentary group, and the initiative and the request, and if you want the request was, if you have anything that can be evidence, so we're not saying it's evidence, we're just asking that we possibly confirm the authenticity of it. If it's true, then we have a huge problem in the state. If it is not true, if you, with certainty of material, moral, criminal responsibility, claim, have evidence that it is not from the Serbian language, then we have no problem. The question arises – how could someone have three sets on the street and that... (President: Mr. Stefanovic, you've gone off topic again, you're causing some unnecessary replicas. So, please, replicate on behalf, please. To finish the sentence. So, since it was a replica, I thought I'd answer what was asked, not getting into who was leading the education, because we didn't. But now I think the whole country has a very big problem. The math test has been repeated and we have something that could, I repeat, could be evidence, which could crash the Serbian language test. The Minister as the most responsible person should give an answer to all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18721	Thank you. (Neđa Jovanovic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18722	Short, and we will end the controversy with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure for a simple reason, which has once again emerged from the topic in its entirety. On the other hand, they know very well the proceedings of those who object to the rights of the minister and the ministry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18723	Mr. Jovanovic, just tell me, I expect you to tell me, which member did I hurt?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18724	Article 27. There's a regular way of providing evidence to whom the evidence is delivered. It's not the Assembly's place of arbitration and where evidence is collected in a procedure far beyond this. Please also, Madam Chairman, draw attention to the MPs for their conduct in parliament. We are about to have a code of conduct where I hope we will very well regulate every MP's behaviour here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18725	Thank you. We are continuing to discuss the amendment. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18726	Madam Chairman, I am also directly mentioned by name and last name. Do I have the right to a replica or do I use time?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18727	You don't have the right to a replica. You can talk about the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18728	It's an interesting interpretation. Your discretionary right has been given to you, given the will not to gain the right to replication. I won't waste my time with the MPs' group. When I talk about the amendment, the amendment is very clear, just as it is clear and the text of the parliamentary oath that tells me – I swear that I will perform the duty of the MP in a committed, fair, safe and faithful constitution, defend human and minority rights and civil freedoms and, by my best knowledge and skill, serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice. If I cannot fulfill my constitutional oath to serve the truth and justice and if you feel that you should serve the truth and injustice, then our dialogue is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18729	Thank you. Does anyone else want a word based on this amendment? No, I don't. ) On Article 30 of the amendment was submitted by MP Dusan Obradovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 30th Amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter, Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18730	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the New Serbia parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 30 in order to change two positions. Item 2 where the number 30 is changed by 25, refers to the number of students in the class, and point 4 is an attempt to change the number of students set out in point 2, I remind you, refers to inclusive students, number 2 is changed by number 3. Let me explain how you see it in practice. We've already talked a lot about the demographic picture of Serbia. In the New Serbia Strategy, which deals with population policy, we paid a lot of attention to Serbia being empty on the plains, we talked a lot about it in public, and that Serbia is getting older. Belgrade is one story, the rest of Serbia is another story. That's exactly what you can see here. Belgrade has overloaded departments, lack of schools, more children in departments. So the opportunities in education are completely different from the rest of Serbia. Someone who, as I had the opportunity three, four days ago, was in the municipality like Babusnica exactly sees a huge difference between Belgrade and what Serbia is around the edges. This law is passed for everything. We are trying to overcome one problem both professional and technical, and also unional, which is suggested, and we all agreed that the optimal maximum number of students in the department is 25, so that in this way one can work best, that through it is something that no longer guarantees quality teaching, and we all try to say that everyone has equal chances. When we take a fair look at what it means to be small departments in northern Serbia and major departments in Belgrade, the quality of work, and the possibilities after that, we will come up with irreconcilable differences. Education and education is not a system of merged courts, so there will be spills. It's going to be even more demographic, let's just say, centralization and everyone's going to blend into Belgrade again. The fact is that life writes some different rules and that many villages around Serbia have died and become elderly because some younger people simply realized that they can't educate children and that school, or education, is something that needs to provide them with something that is the basis for them to provide for a future. It is precisely one of the reasons for Serbia's age in this way, why Serbia is headed this way towards one centre, Belgrade, why such a proportion was created in departments within and in Belgrade. Perhaps this law will soon have to suffer another change to overcome this problem. A number has been reached in the law. The minister did not respect our amendment regarding the number 25 maximum. He explained it very clearly. Those are undeniable figures. I appeal to this number of three students to be reduced. So the number of students in the department when the student with the inclusion in the department is involved to reduce the number of students by at least three students, to facilitate the educational worker who works in such a department. And that's one of Serbia's demographic problems, because we do not have so many represented needs. So we would have serious help in Serbia's interior. We're going to have to think more about the first attitude in my amendment. I think we all need to find a serious solution to this big problem together with the Ministry of Education. What we all have to admit here is that Serbia is emptying its borders. Serbia's getting old. I'll tell you one terrible piece of information, in Babusnica, where I was a few days ago, the average age is over 52 years old. We have to give everyone a chance. That's what we swear. We convince them that's the case. If everyone comes to Belgrade, what will remain in the rest of Serbia? So we have to build a system. The school is the first to keep young people in the middle. The children's interest, we have to take care of it. I ask the minister to consider how he overcomes this particular problem we have. We are prepared to assist him in some new changes and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18731	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18732	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, regarding this number of students in a series of these amendments, I could not support this amendment as a whole. So one part is acceptable, and the other part is not. As for the number of students, we have already heard from the minister that 6,835 departments in Serbia have fewer than 15 students. I believe that of those 6,835 is at least 6,700 in less urban environments, to call it rural environments. I grew up in one such environment and there were 32 students on average in each class from first to eighth grade. We had two departments each and the school numbered 535 students, and now it doesn't count half of that composition. So even at that time we had quite satisfactory results, no matter what we were more than 25, which was 32-33 on average, and in some classes that number was moving up to 35 students. So it was a rural environment. Now, after 50 years, the village was completely empty and in a certain way education shared the fate of the state. The village population was sucked into big cities, so we got industrially dead cities. It's supposed to be done with the god of industrialization. Now we have industrially dead cities and relaxed villages. We have about 6,800 departments that have up to 15 students, and I think we have about 1,000 departments of up to five students. Just because the number of students is small, there is one student in the village, and five villages make one department, that it is pedestrian students, or local self-government involved in the transport of these students. Just to remind you, and that is what I said in the debate in principle, that in such rural areas almost all our greats, including Tesla, Pupina, Negosa, Ivo Andric, our Nobelian, Meša Selimovic, were born. We can include Mehmed Pasha Sokolovic. So all our greats were born in a certain way in the village and the result of a demographic disaster in Serbia. It could happen that there's no new Tesla to be born in the future. We won't have a new Pupin, a new Montenegrin, new Peter Petrovic Negos, new Life of Mišic. So, regardless of what the state wants, especially as far as schooling is concerned, to keep classes with up to 15 students, the village cannot be helped unless the economic situation in the country changes. If the policy towards the village and the peasants doesn't change, we won't be able to do anything about schooling, nor will primary education, not to talk about colleges and secondary education, be easily accessible to those living in the country. A situation from the so-called The hilly municipalities are being moved to the plainland, so you have in Vojvodina half the schools in villages that no longer meet the conditions to have 15 students in one department. Such a situation is unsustainable and I am afraid that until the economic situation is improved, until this country has turned to the interior, village and peasants, until true decentralisation is carried out, until the processing industry and agricultural production are joined and brought to the village, this country will not allow the rural population and rural children to have equal chances, that this will be a state without a chance in any area, and of course it will be difficult to make education and health available to such a type of children, or children living in rural areas. So we can pass the law we want, we can limit the number of students to 30, to 25, we can keep minimum to one, two, but until this country's economic policy changes in favour of smaller environments, I don't think there's any help in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18733	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? (No) Elvira Kovac, Balint Pastor, Laslo Varga, Arpad Fremond and Zoltan Peck together submitted to the 30th Amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18734	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, unfortunately as a representative of the national minority, or a member of the Hungarian national minority, I should not talk about the size of the department but about small departments that have less than 15 students. It's a reality, and probably among these departments that you mentioned with a number of students under five, between five and 10, between 10 and 15, there are really many departments attended by students of the national minority, including Hungarians, and that's a fact. Every year, before the start of the school year, we all struggle to survive these departments and, of course, I have to commend you again, because yesterday on the Education Committee, I didn't do it, that there were really no bigger problems. It is possible that there are some smaller ones, when special departments cannot be approved after all, when there must still be a variety of combinations, or combinations of these departments, but in reality most of them are approved. Our amendment is about the consent of the Ministry, because we believe that if this agreement of the Ministry, means that there is a special class with a number of students under 15, the entire first cycle of education, i.e. from the beginning of the first class to the end of the fourth grade, or before the transfer to the class in question, the fifth class of teachers, in order to give legal certainty, should not be afraid every year of whether this class approved in the first class, second, third, might still be combined with others. We think it would make it easier for both your work and the work of the Regional Secretariat and all of us, and we were hoping that you would be open to accepting this amendment. It is interesting that the government’s explanation states that the amendment is not accepted, as the conditions for the implementation of the educational-experienced work programme in a foreign language, or bilingually, will be regulated by a sublegal act. We weren't very clear about this argument. Then Mr. Minister told the Committee that the amendment is not accepted because there is a concern that this number of 15 will decrease, or less than 15 will decrease even more over the years, but we really don't believe it's realistic that so many students from that same department move, or go somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18735	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? The 30th Amendment was submitted by National MP Ana Novkovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 31st Amendment were submitted by MP Sasa Milenic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18736	The amendment was indeed not accepted by the government, but accepted an amendment with the same goal, formulated only by the MPs of the other parliamentary group. I don't have a problem with whether it makes any political sense, whether the government wants to give priority to the opposition amendment, which is nice, or maybe send some political message about the possible creation of political relations in the future, and it's nice to make it transparent. It is important to me that the amendment was adopted, namely that this amendment has practically banned a very bad and uncontestable practice that the Union of Teachers of Serbia has pointed out, namely that there are schools where regardless of the age of students, where half-day shifts take place, thanks to a number of teachers in the teaching council in the form of an advocacy, decide that students of the same age, most often the first cycle of primary education, go to one shift throughout the school year, and children of older age, or second cycle, also in one shift all year. It is medically simply unacceptable, because of the child’s development needs, as there is no doubt that in the pedagogical sense it would be ideal for a professor to come to a student, so that the teaching would be individual, which, of course, is an unattainable goal. It is also clear that it would be best if schools didn't work like the shift industry, and that all children went to school first thing in the morning. But if those are standards that go beyond our capabilities, then at least the burden of the students must be even. With this amendment, which is only positively formulated, it is practically forbidden for those who have violated that principle to do so more in the future. I also agree with those colleagues who thought it wasn't a problem for the level of basic education law, but if it is, and I believe that the Teachers' Union doesn't write it by heart, the practice that is observed in certain environments, then it's better to ban it, rather than tolerate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18737	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Dr Miodrag Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18738	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Also, like my predecessor, we have submitted an amendment to this Article 31, and you have explained that it is not accepted because it is accepted by another parliamentary group. I'll also understand that it's being accepted, because the goal is actually to improve the law and it doesn't matter whether it came from the left or from the right. This is very important because there are a large number of schools in Serbia that go to school in the morning and afternoon, and such a school is located in Leskovac. We have one petition of over 200 teachers and teachers, who thus demand that it be regulated, that it be changed for a month, to allow all equal conditions. We ourselves know how important it is for psychophysical medically correct development of children, especially for nutrition, to go to school in the morning. We all agreed with the adoption of the 2020 Strategy and wrote there that it is desirable for children to go to school in the morning, so I welcome the adoption of this amendment, which will certainly improve the conditions especially in primary schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18739	Thank you. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the resolute have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18740	I would like to thank the minister for respecting this amendment by the Parliamentary Group together for Serbia, and I would not be able to explain why he did so with our amendment, rather than with the amendment of fellow Members from other parliamentary groups. I guess there's some reason for that, but basically, it's really good that everyone involved in the writing of the amendments actually recognized this need. I really think that what I'm assuming right now was the jurisdiction of local self-government, or organized shift work in schools that work in two shifts, in half-day classes, mostly run by some interests or local self-government, or the school itself, or the school's working hours, or even the car carrier. He was never really organized, or guided by the interests of students and school employees. We've had a situation that for years generations, they've been going on the same shift at school and they've been missing out on some regular rhythm of life, which can then have consequences for their psychophysical development. That's why I'm really pleased that this text is going to become part of the law, because I believe that such a provision deserves to be found in the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18741	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the People's Parliaments Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović and Jovana Mehandzic submitted to the 31st Amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 31 of the amendment was submitted by National MP Milica Vojić Markovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18742	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, article 31 refers to teaching. The law states that in addition to regular school classes, they are required to organise additional, additional and preparatory classes. In Section 4, which is for every commendation, that talented students, students with special preferences and interests are finally recognized, say the following – for students from the fourth to eighth grade with special abilities, preferences and interests for individual subjects, the school organises an additional course. But you don't say anywhere who will define these students for what kind of teaching, what kind of interest, or what they want, what their interest is. It is interesting, now that we look at this member and compare it with Article 21, where the goals of basic education are, and you say, that, in addition to intellectual, emotional, social development, the acquisition of quality knowledge and skills and the formation of valuable attitudes, linguistic, mathematical, scientific, etc., then the development of creative abilities, creativity and aesthetic perceptions and tastes, and the development of the ability to find and analyse, apply, sharing information with a skillful and efficient use of the media, and training to solve the problem of connecting and applying knowledge and skills in further education and everyday life, and the development and motivation for learning and training for self-research, and the development of self-initiative, self-initiative, self-evaluation. That's all I'm saying. On the one hand, these are all the goals that we want to achieve, and on the other hand, in Article 31, just ten members after that, you to these students who are and how they are able to determine for themselves what it is and what they want to do, forbid that right, but you say on our amendment, so we thought that we should add here that students choose after the survey was conducted among the students. What is the objective of our amendment? We kids who are able to do all this, what I said here, although they are just one of those who are capable of all of what you've given them in their goals, that I guess they can give themselves up and say what their interests are. We don't know who defines these children for all of them, what are the criteria to define them for certain things you offer them, what school organizes. I'm from school. I know how to do it. My proclivity as a teacher is that too. I recognize talented children, decide on their behalf that they will come to the extra class I offer, and of course I decide on their behalf and what competitions they will attend, because I know very well, I am the one who decides. Of course, I don't speak for myself. I'm just talking about school practice in that sense. I'm sorry if you have kids who really have special interests, if they're willing to put all this stuff that you've brought here among their goals really, to get them out of primary school, then let them at least make their own statements about how they want to take that extra class and what they want to do on that extra one. There were teachers who were very creative, let's just say, extra classes, I was competing in German, we were translating modern magazines and stuff, but after that, I had a professor with whom it was strictly literary and we didn't want to go like that. I'm telling you that it's very important that children commit themselves, because then it involves doing what they want to do and that they will really progress and be very happy to attend that class. Now you answer to me. Of course, I wrote this in line with you giving schools the opportunity to conduct surveys both when it comes to parents and when it comes to students. I don't see why it wouldn't be possible to conduct one such survey and then give the students the right to commit themselves. Now again, I am interpreting what you wrote to me in an explanation - the amendment is not accepted for the reason why the provision of the bill allows the school to conduct a student survey, of course, for these reasons I have cited this, but it also leaves the possibility of using another interrogation technique. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, can you tell me what kind of technique this student's interest would be? I'm very interested in what technique it is, if it's not a technique in elementary school. Really, it's funny for me to say, a fourth-to-eightth-grade student, with a technique to question his interests and not write it anywhere? It doesn't say you're going to question him anywhere. It does not say what the criteria for choosing that child are, but I am telling you that in practice it really takes a completely different form and does not contribute to the child’s proclivities and contribute to anything but activates the teacher who will tell – I have a child who has achieved this in the Republic and that, although the child does not want to do it, does not want to do it. I can give you an x example of children who were top mathematicians, but they didn't want to do math. They wanted to do social sciences. But they were in competitions, even on the same day at three competitions, even though the law does not allow it. Let them say it themselves. That's what we want. That's where we'll be great. I don't see anything controversial in this amendment that I wrote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18743	Thank you. Mrs. Vojić Markovic, just to let you know that you have exhausted the time of the authorised representative. For the rest of your time, we've turned you down from the MP's group. Anyone else want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18744	Madam Chairman, as far as this extra class is concerned, just to say as a man who's worked in elementary and high school for a long time, I think it's well-conceived here for an extra class, and what my predecessors have been saying, should I be surveyed? It's normal to do that. It's a matter of internal organisation of school, work, school pedagogogogogog, along with teachers, etc. The law can't tell us everything. Then we'll seduce legal school norms where we don't give freedom to both students and teachers. We who work with children and students know that the curricula and the program is designed for the middle student, the average, means, for good, and for excellent knowledge of what it does and below good for sufficient and insufficient. Additional classes are special interests. How do we recognize that? It's such a wealth of recognition within a educational institution, that we don't need to codify here in law, because then we narrow down the interests and different desires of our students, and if you want even a teacher. I think this is well-conceived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18745	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18746	It is just a key sentence that the colleague said – how do we recognize it inside the school? I don't care how you recognize it, pal. We're all trained to recognize that. I want to activate the children, because that's where you tell them what the goals and outcomes of education should be. I want the kids to recognize it with themselves and that's what they want. That's the key difference between you and me. If it's as it says here, if you let the school have the right to decide on it in a way that, then there's no system, then at my school, it's going to be so that the stock market will be defined for itself, but it won't be possible for all children. In another school, it won't be a principle. I'd like it to be a principle. I'd like the kids to really decide that. I think they're capable, because we're talking about an extra follow-up here. They're very capable children of articulating what it is they want to do and the way they want to deal. I don't see that being controversial. In pedagoggy, it's not a dispute.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18747	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18748	Let me give you a brief opinion. I don't think there's any reason for a difference of opinion. The student's wishes are respected. I'd like to see a teacher who won't respect the extra teaching of the student's wishes, only that the wishes are different, which sometimes depends on the teacher's attitude towards the teaching course, whether he's doing it right or wrong, so maybe he won't define himself. There's a mass of factors, and that's why we said, let's leave it to the schools. Wealth is within an educational institution, vast wealth. Let's leave it to the schools. Why codify? Why impose on them? There won't be a single student who's gifted, to take a traditional name for advanced students. Its right to say where it is advanced - whether it is Serbian, whether it is mathematics or biology. He'll never have a teacher holding back that desire, normally, with the help of a teacher. There's a teacher who encourages and negotiates together. If we tell them, where is the freedom of students and the freedom of teachers? I'm sorry about this raid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18749	Thank you. The word is Milica Vojić Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18750	That's exactly what I'm saying, not what I'm saying. That's what I'm saying right now. You're a little bit of a talk about having to determine, so you're talking about not having to tell them. So that's what I'm talking about. I don't need to tell them. I'll let you know, this may not be interesting right now, but I'll give you 50 students from my 18-year-old practice at the elementary school in Valjevo, 50 I'll tell you where the teacher decided what he was going to do and what competition he was going to go to. The teacher is watching what he and his school are interested in. He doesn't care what the child is. That's what I'm telling you. That's why I'm asking, sir, that a child, if a child can have the right, you've advocated that amendment, that he has the confidentiality of medical records, so, excuse me, what is it disputed to give him the right to define what he's going to do and not be codified? Please, he has to get into the law, because if he's not in the law, then it can be whoever it is. The obvious method is very dangerous in education. She's very dangerous in education. A student is capable of articulating his needs and should be given the right. I'll bet he gets it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18751	We're closing a circle of replicas. Mr. Atlagic, you can use MPs' time if you want. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18752	I really don't want to lead the controversy because I know for a fact that Mrs. Vojić Markovic also knows the pedagogical rules. Pedagogical rules respect students' interests. If there are teachers who don't respect it, where are the school educators? What are they doing? What are the directors doing? I ask those questions. Please, they're to warn, to lead the action on the question of gifted students. Let's get 1,000-grader schools. We've got a bunch of advanced students. School pedagogues and psychologists are obliged to intervene on what you said. Why are they getting paid there? I'm sorry, that's their primary assignment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18753	The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18754	My colleague and I stand for two kinds of pedagogy, but good. I stand for what I think is a rule and what needs to be a rule. On the other hand, if you'll excuse me, if there's a procedure at school that's wrong about the law, who did it, who didn't do it, it always breaks down on a kid. I know that very well. Then we come up with a problem with tests that show up, magically disappears, and they show up, and the kids are guilty because they bought them. It's not possible the kids are guilty because they bought them. I stand for one universal principle, that a child has the right to decide and defend it. I don't want to get into what Mr. Atlagic is saying, whether a pedagogue is getting paid to investigate what the teacher did. It's a different story and he can talk about it somewhere else. I don't want to talk about it here. I stand for my amendment. I defend him with arguments of profession and practice, and I stand up for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18755	Mr. Atlagic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18756	I'll use the MP's time. I'm really embarrassed by the school educators watching this. They all know in their annual plan that they have, among other things, a work on coordination around advanced groups within a school. It's their primary task. I don't understand what the lady is talking about. It's a school assignment. I'm not investigating, but the director is in charge, coordinating the plans of everyone, both school pedagogists and teachers, to bring that part into line. It's just a question of whether someone's gonna do their job or not, not the legal question here whether they're interested or not. I'm sorry, I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18757	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18758	Dear Chairman, I absolutely support the amendment tabled by the distinguished colleague, Mrs. Milica Vojic Markovic. I think it's a good amendment. I don't understand the pitches, or the jam in the O.R. I don't have that experience with pedagogical rules, and I don't know who the kids are supposed to report to and the parents to re-fund the costs of the test they canceled yesterday. I guess they have the right to refund money, if they've already bought a test that isn't valid. I really don't know those methodological and pedagogical rules. When I go to school, you get the test, you get the test, you answer, you get the grade. Those worse students are sitting in some bench, which had the name "asshole", these little better ones sitting in some front and so on. I absolutely support my colleague Vojić Markovic. I absolutely support parents who are confused with these pedagogical methods of buying a test. I don't think that's good. If we have one country where one president bought a diploma, then, of course, parents buy tests. I must tell you that you do not need to take the opposition's amendments with ridicule, but to think carefully about what the opposition once said. They do not say that because they hate you and do not love you, they are faithful, above all, to that messenger's oath that we have all taken together to defend truth and justice. By defending truth and justice, I ask you, Mr. Minister, have you looked at these tests that Borko Stefanovic gave you? Is that true or not true? Answer us by the end of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18759	According to the Rules of Procedure, Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18760	I am referring to article 106 and I will read it – the speaker can only talk about the point of the agenda on which the search is being conducted. Please, Mr. Milivojevic keeps talking about the president of the state. It's not on the agenda. Let me just say that the president of the state and for him is the president, no matter what he is, who I am and what he is to me and him. I'm sorry and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18761	I ask all MPs to speak on the subject of the agenda. According to the Rules of Procedure, Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18762	I'm referring to article 107. The speaker at the National Assembly session is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. I'm sorry that you recognized Tomislav Nikolic as the president of a single-man state...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18763	Mr. Millyvoy, I'm really going to have to interrupt you. I am responsible for the respect of Article 27. Rules of Procedure, and I can't let you get into any further controversy about it. I'm really sorry. Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. We're going back to work. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Donka Bankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18764	This is an amendment to the same article 31, but this is on item 8, where the proposer proposes – the school is obliged to organise the preparation of students for the final exam during the second semester of the eighth grade, and 10 days before the exams are passed at least two hours a day. The amendment I suggested that instead of two hours a day it would be four hours a day. So, 10 days before the final exam, that in school necessarily, the school is required to organize at least four hours a day. You replied that you prescribed a minimum for this member, that school is obliged to organize at least two hours and that I can organize more, but that it is left to school so that it can organize more than two hours. This is exactly what I wanted to do with this amendment, to make it a minimum of four hours a day, and that it could be more if the school were defined. Now, I'm going to be a little bit of a pain in the ass, 'cause this is the topic we talked about yesterday and today. Yes, a prep course should be organised unless the tests occur at the time of the market.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18765	Anyone else want a word? (No) The 32nd Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 32nd Amendment were submitted by MP Vesna Jovicki. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 33rd Amendment were submitted by MP Vesna Jovicki. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic jointly submitted to the amendment of the 33rd. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18766	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Therefore, Article 33 speaks of class and subject continuation. We were changing attitude 2 and we asked it to read as follows: "For first-cycle students", so from first to fourth grade, "the classes are organised in foreign language, musical, visual and physical education, as well as electoral and university classes, in accordance with the law and the curriculum and the programme". You say in Section 2 that the school is able to organise the classes in question from foreign languages, electoral and academic subjects, and according to the law, the curriculum and the programme. We think it is very important that in the field of physical education, my colleague Mr. Pejcic will talk more about it, because he is a well-known expert in this area, but we believe that from the field of visual education, music education, children should have the instruction of those people who are expert in this teaching. As someone who's been in school for years, I remember a period that the school has arranged so that children have an adequate class from these classes, and I remember a period when they teach physical, say, teachers with a purse under their hands. It's not physical teaching, and that's what those health problems our children have in the field of health show. They have problems with overweight, with wrong spines, flat soles, with all the respect of class teachers who teach physical or similar classes. One of the solutions for the state to actually go into this area, means to solve the issue of child health problems in primary school, is to try to regulate it in this way, that children have professional and professional people who will teach these subjects. One way is by offering the kitchen and supporting the return of the kitchen to primary schools. It's a very good way, because it regulates these questions that I've been talking about – too much weight and everything. We stand for this concept of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18767	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18768	As one could see from earlier discussions, the very deeper partnership between local self-government and the state in conceiving the work of primary schools and education systems, in general, is the way in which solutions will be found for many problems in the education system. This means decentralisation of the national education system. This is exactly one of the questions that this may most painfully show. The example of the town of Kragujevac, not to repeat the arguments made by the colleague, is that local self-government wanted to take over the costs that no doubt arise from applying this concept of the teaching in question and during the first cycle of primary education. The ministry has been struggling to find a model in which it will be enforceable, because our system is not conceived so that certain founding rights and issues in the educational process can be partnered up with both state and local self-government. The special interest of local self-government for this view of the matter lies in those outside the educational and educational or wider view of the educational and educational objectives of the teaching and education process. The fact that the teacher of music education has nothing to do with the actual degree of development of chorus singing and attitude towards music culture, as the absence of the professors of physical education has to do with scoliosis and the growth of flat-tubs in the student population. I'm saying this on the basis of a long-standing consultation with experts in these areas. It is not disputed that classroom teachers are trained to teach, but it is questionable how literally and realistic it is. In fact, there is no doubt that the teaching performed by the teacher of music education in lower classes and the teaching performed by the teacher in lower classes is not by its quality and effects identical with the teaching that teachers of the classroom will teach. The experiences in Kragujevac are positive. It's not completely solved the way the local self-government suggested, but we found some partner model and I can tell you that they are so-called. School choirs, you can properly track it, directly tie it to how to solve this issue at school. Where music education professors have more important participation in primary school education, then chorus singing is nurtured by the earliest ages in school. It's no regulation or rule, but the correctness that can be seen is fact. I don't want much more, because the time of my group of deputies is getting thinner and thinner, and there's a lot more law ahead of us. The fact is that accumulated problems in the education system, just as in other segments of society, can be resolved productively through decentralisation of the system and deepening the partner relationship between the state and local self-government. That's the full confidence of the URS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18769	The word is made by MP Radoslav Komlenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18770	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I had to report for this amendment. A colleague who talked about continuing physical education, art culture and music culture, since I'm a professor of physical education, I have to say that I advocate it, and so is my colleague, also a professor of physical education, that physical education should be taught by teachers from first grade primary school. We see that in preschool institutions we have as professional associates a professor of physical education. However, because of the difficult economic situation, there is no money, even in the third and fourth grade, we managed to let teachers teach physical education, music culture, art, and in addition, the teacher's lobby came to its goal and they took over to do so. I wouldn't talk about how much deformity there is in children from first to fourth grade, whether it's scoliosis, cyphosis, lordosis, wrong legs, obesity, etc., believe it or not, over 70%. She keeps asking herself – why do teachers of physical education teach from first to fourth grade when teachers in their program also have a method of physical education and process it? However, I ask another question – when you get sick, do you go to a nurse or a specialist doctor? In my initial search, I also talked about the fact that the 2008 Council of Europe unanimously decided that physical education is the only subject where children develop determination, self-initiative, ferplej, etc. I think that in the future we should take care of this part and find the possibility, because it's a little two hours of physical education in primary school. That third hour of free activity, children, with the help of teachers, choose. I'd be apostrophe of another problem, and that's what I said in those talks with the minister, that we have to put in order and around these sports schools, because everyone's opening football, handball and swimming schools, and that's where we need to know who can hold it and how they're holding up, whether they're getting counterproductive. Of course, it's what parents pay for because they want their kids off the street to practice any sport. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18771	Thank you. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milan Lapcevic and Aleksandar Pejcic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18772	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Minister Obradovic, representatives of the government, distinguished counterpart Lapcevic and I have submitted the same amendment as counterpart Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. We're just inserting the words "physical education." Why did we insert these words? For one simple reason we want the welfare of our children, for our children to be healthy in the future. I want to remind you, Mr. Minister, that the tree bends while it's young. That's how children's deformities will be corrected when they're young, when they're young, while they're still in primary school. I've got examples here that I'm going to make later, but I'm going to repeat the DSS's view that in lower-class schools, I'm sure, when it comes to this class, I'm going to have to lead the professors of physical education, professional persons. I assume you agree with me here. However, the handicap is that the ministry probably doesn't have the means to finance them, but at this point, for the sake of children's health, the ministry has to find funds to fund these children. We're like a nation sports nation and to continue that continuity, to preserve that brand, we have to have a quality base, and the base is right in primary school. I want to remind the MPs here what our institutes were doing, our research professors. According to the Institute of Public Health "Dr Milan Jovanovic Batut" in Belgrade, the Ministry of Health from a systematic review for 2007/2008. A year in primary and secondary schools in Serbia shows that nearly one third of children have some of the deformities of the spine, chest or feet. A survey of the Republic Institute commissioned by the Youth and Sports Ministry of the Resort Ministry in Belgrade showed that children of primary school age are higher by 2.5% to 3% compared to their peers 15 years ago, but significantly higher, up to 7.3% than in that period. Measurement in Paracina 2010/2011. In the year, my esteemed professor Dr Đuraskovic, on a sample of 1,480 primary school students, showed the following – 45% of children have foot deformities and poor body holding, 15% of marked morphological malformations, 15% are extremely obesity, etc. I'll remind you, and that's what I was saying in the principle debate, that in Jablanic County, I was working on one research, doing one master's work, helping one of my distinguished colleagues, 74% of children have deformities, which are feet, which is a spinal column, which is other deformities. That's why I was sure, Mr. Minister, that you would accept this amendment. Which is why you didn't accept it, I really don't know, but I'm warning you that the trend for our children, especially in primary schools, is the loss of physical ability, and the number of malformations is growing. In order to prevent that, it is best to leave the possibility for schools to organize a course of physical education, and that the teaching of physical education is taught by experts, i.e. Professors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18773	Thank you. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18774	Two sentences in favor of what fellow Pejcic said. I think he's got a reson and a previous speaker. I'll just have one experience in two sentences. 25 years ago, when I was a school pedagogogogist, we were just doing what you say, Mr. Pejcic, even though there was no law. What am I saying? That it is left to educational institutions to organise it, especially when it comes to physical education and music. So that and foreign language etc. Where did the problem in practice arise, in my opinion? There's fear among teachers that they'll run out of norm. The teachers should be recognized by the norm, the number of classes there are, and teachers of the classes in question teach because of the newly gifted students in the area. Let's not put the school down to codification. Let's release freedom, pedagogical freedom within an educational institution, and we'll get a wealth of certain and then quality education. I don't think there's any obstacle. This isn't about the law, it's about the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education and Educational Advisors. I'm sorry for the intervention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18775	Thank you. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Vojic Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Joint MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic submitted to the title above Articles 37 and 37 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18776	This amendment consists of several elements, but it is mainly an effort to leave out all those attitudes from this article, as well as from the title that says that a parent or guardian can be defined as organizing for his child teaching at home. So we're proposing to erase all these attitudes. Now I'm going to commit myself naturally to this previous discussion, where colleagues pointed out how important it is that there is an organized training of physical education from the first grade, and then immediately afterwards a member goes where it is said that a parent can organize his child's education at home. So it's just one of us, too bad. What's the parent doing? He informs the school about it, the school organises class exams from all classes in accordance with the curriculum and programme. So it's prescribed by these members. But what we all probably know, is that school isn't just about mastering lessons, it's a lot more than that. She also teaches a relationship with time, according to obligations, social roles, the development of a competitive spirit. Then who will be these people who will teach such a student? Not everyone can be a teacher, if they could, we'd all be teachers. So it's not enough for a parent to finish college, so he can take that part. How will this work be monitored at home during the year, how will the records be kept, what will happen, and who will be guilty if it turns out that this school year was a failure at home, so no tests are passed? It seems to me that the suggestion is that the child will then return to regular school, but then there is already multiple damage. Losing just one year, it's not, but there are other kinds of complications. What do you do when parents commit that one child has a home education or is educated at home, so it turns out to be a failure? He can have three children, he can wish for that other child to study at home. Will you then keep a record of your parent as a failed teacher at home, etc? I just mentioned some of the problems. We think this is a harmful proposal and that there are too many problems in our entire education system, to introduce this paper now. I'm afraid it's not the time and there may be various abuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18777	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 37 of the amendment was tabled by Parliament Ana Novković. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Gordana Comić and Maja Vidinovic submitted to the 37th amendment. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18778	Thank you. The amendment to Article 37, which we submitted by colleague Maja Vidinović and I, relates to part of the basic bill described by article 37 with the rubrum – home and distance teaching. We generally consider teaching at home and at a distance to be a very good idea. We also believe that this is a topic to develop a debate, which needs to be followed in particular, but that it is good that, according to the bill and in accordance with the strategy, there is a clearly defined possibility in Article 37, in the last positions, when a parent, or guardian, has the right to organise his child's primary school education and education at home. What's the content of our amendment? In Article 37, the first position, after the words "houses" - a parent or guardian has the right to organise his child's primary school education and education at home, we add: "in exceptional cases, when children with disabilities are at stake, and in their best interests". We consider this supplement extremely important, as we consider a change in the position of the 6th Article 37 important, because, according to our proposal, this attitude 6 is changing and it is said – teaching can be achieved at the request of parents or guardians and as a teaching on distance and electronic learning, in exceptional cases, when children with development and disability are at stake, and in their best interest. The addition to electronic learning is also considered important, with the fact that we are talking about continuing at home and at a distance. The explanation that the Government has informed us about why an amendment to Article 37 in the amendments to Article 1 and Article 6 is not accepted: "The amendment is not accepted for the reason that it is Article 37. The draft law provides for a legal basis for the adoption of a sublegal act which regulates closer conditions for the achievement and manner of quality assurance and evaluation of teaching at home and distance teaching." This is what I was talking about in my first attempt to contribute to the quality of the debate and to help the representatives of the government. You can't write such explanations. You just can't. There are two ways to avoid this together. It is one thing to understand that this must not be done in an explanation, nor because of the unique methodological rules adopted by this assembly, nor because of the resolution on the legislative process, nor the fundamental respect of the house in which the representatives of the Government are elected. My struggle for justification, as was my institutional struggle for the bill to be introduced into the Assembly together with the proposal for sublegal acts, is principled. So, co-worker Maja Vidinović and I suggest introducing electronic learning and thinking how carefully to define electronic learning at a distance when it comes to children with developmental disorders and disability, and you tell me that this can't be done, because this article will get closer to the conditions or sublegal acts. It is offensive to anyone who can read the laws, to anyone who holds to the relationship between the congregation and the government. This argument is offensive. Any attempt to reject the amendment in any way is owned by the legislator of this law. Any attempt to demean someone else's legal idea is inadmissible. That's what happens to this explanation from a member to a member of the law. There is no dialogue on whether or not colleague Maja Vidinovic and I see the role of learning at a distance and electronic learning when it comes to a child with developmental interference. We are ready for dialogue, ready for you to tell us why we do not see a good solution to enter clarification, a special part of the sentence, when it comes to teaching at home and at a distance, that is, when it comes to a child with developmental and disability disorders. Instead of such a dialogue, we have that article 37 will have sublaws. What does that mean? That sublaws may say anything in detail about the possibility of learning remotely and electronically learning and not being able to? Following a careful debate in particular today, it is clear to me what is the fundamental seed of the misunderstanding between some of us who are proposing amendments and some of the other MPs who dispute these amendments, except for the clearly unacceptable means of communication between the government and the MPs, whoever is that MP and whoever is the representative of the Government. The bottom line of our misunderstanding is that we are putting our amendments in the heart of this law. A child, at any age. That's what the Strategy is asking of us. But in the heads of the promoters and in the heads of all of us who don't see what the difference is, putting a child in the center and putting in the center of the pedagogue service system, money, economy, whatever we heard as an explanation, the difference is huge. These laws are passed because I certainly know that there are enough people in the Ministry who know exactly that it's a student, a child as the center of the education system. However, in the reasons that we get to reject our amendments, it is not seen, so I can conclude this: or someone in the government thinks that no one reads the arguments, or someone in the government thinks that MPs are not worthy of written and detailed explanations, or someone in the government thinks it's totally no matter what is written as an explanation - let us banish that law through the Assembly, we will refuse most of the amendments anyway. If any of these three cases are not harmful or to the benefit of government, coalition, majority or opposition, we are all at risk together because we didn't understand what the law was about, because we didn't understand that knowledge is what keeps us going. If there is no knowledge that my colleague Maji Vidinovic and I are writing an explanation, why do you think anyone here deserves confidence in what it will look like with a child who has developmental or disability? It's very simple stuff – I don't have time to write her an explanation, but I'm gonna be great at organizing a distance class for a child with developmental and disability disorders. Trust is a wonderful thing. Trust is being built. I am prepared to earn your trust by writing amendments that are consistent, which put the child at the heart of this law and which are carrying out a very clear line of our reforms that we have agreed to have a 2020 strategy. If we want to share this trust, then the least we can get from you is – why is there not so much time, patience and knowledge to write a written explanation and why is it believed that MPs will tolerate it, whether they are MPs of the ruling majority or opposition? I fall among that group of MPs who never tolerated it, whether I belonged to the ruling majority or to the opposition. There's a colleague who can testify and check that I can't be trusted by word. For this reason, I do not tolerate you from accepting an excellent idea of precise distance learning and electronic learning when it comes to children with developmental and disability disorders. I refuse to accept silences to explain to me that, with regard to Article 37, a legal basis is envisaged for the adoption of a sublegal act that regulates closer conditions for the achievement and way of ensuring quality and evaluation of teaching at home and teaching at a distance. I ask that you no longer write such reasonings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18779	Thank you. National MPs Gordana Comic and Maja Vidinovic together submitted an amendment suggesting that a new title and a new member of 37a be added after article 37a. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18780	Thank you. This is the next amendment that practically relates to the previous amendments I have also explained to Articles 25 and 26, which, for technical reasons, I have not been able to explain, as regards the programme of measures and activities to reduce and stop early school leaving. I will also explain our proposal to add Article 37a after Article 37. The explanation that we have received is: "Amendment is not accepted for the reason that the school itself is defined for the way in which it will implement planned activities and monitor the implementation of the measures to prevent school leaving students, which are an integral part of the development plan, in accordance with Article 25. The bill of law." So this is where language professionals would probably have to work. I read what it says with the interpretation stated in the explanation. "In doing so, school can form teams in accordance with Articles 66 and 67. Law on the basis of the education and education system. "The attempt of this argument comes down to the idea, the message, because this has to be read because it is as a code, that we added without need to Article 37a, when it comes to continuing at home and at a distance, with the title: "A programme of measures and activities to reduce and stop early school leaving". The member in general says: "The school is obliged to monitor and identify students who are at risk of early leaving, interrupt education, based on pre-defined indicators". A second position: "Preparation, implementation and monitoring of this programme is carried out by a school team to prevent rash, which includes students, employed parents, or guardians, representatives of local institutions and service providers and social protection sectors, youth, health care, the civil sector and the wider local community. "Why is this member of yours a complete surplus, and why should we leave it to the school to realize, and in doing so, we have a hypocritical concern for pouring out, for interrupting elementary school at some age, especially a community like the Roma community, or a community with a small number of children who are regionally, geographically in parts of Serbia from which schools are remote? So, in just a little dypression, I'm going to go back to the number of students of 25. Then the answer -- we'd love to, and this is how 50% of the students in those classes would love these 30, but there's no money. When I say, let's establish clear measures and participants to prevent rashes, then I get an answer -- it doesn't need to be in the law, it's someone to take care of it. Can I conclude from this right now that there's money for this, but there's no will? If there's no money for those 25 constraints, but there's no will, there's no will for this. The explanation we received suggests that we do not see who will clearly follow what happens to children who leave school prematurely. We all know where those kids are and who those kids are. We all know what's the problem with a child who's stopped schooling at primary school age. That child in the beginning is itself, because of the local community, the small micro-community in which it takes its chances for any success in life. My government tells me that no one should take care of it, because it's already regulated by Article 25. I've also given the amendment to Article 25. The bill of law is precisely because it's not well regulated. Now be careful when you read the arguments – I submit an amendment to Article 25 to bring about a debate of care to prevent the school from being drowsy, to prevent early school leaving. When I file for one member, I have to file for other members of the law, because I want to know who's responsible for the kids not leaving school in the fifth, sixth, seventh grade. I want to know who's responsible for what Roma girls do to most of the population of child trafficking and women. I want to know why some groups leaving school are caught in a store for begging or petty crime, petty theft. I want to know who's responsible that those kids aren't at school. That's what I do in Article 25 and Article 26, and you do for Article 37a, which I have to add if I want to know why there's a rash, you say - is not foreseen for Article 25. That's inadmissible. I'm used to it, along with all my colleagues, that MPs are called by different names in public and that we don't really have a God-knowing reputation for various reasons, that people don't think we're doing any useful jobs. That's what I'm used to. It's something that follows a low media rating, undeserved. I deeply believe that there is an absolute majority of hardworking, dedicated people in our congregation to the work of the MP. I know that we can hardly change the media image of all of us or change people's impressions of all of us for a short period of time and that it takes a lot of evidence that they really believe in a lot of work that's being invested here. But I refuse the government's representatives to have the same attitude and write an explanation -- at least write what, we don't care, they won't read anyway. That's inadmissible. Do I have to conclude from that explanation that you absolutely don't care what happens to baby-sicking? I can't believe it, because I know people who've made efforts not to give up on children, to prevent early abandonment. But when you write me an explanation like this, I have nothing else to conclude, except -- stay out of the subject of child depravation, it doesn't matter anyway, we're going to do something right now, don't do it here, don't do it in Article 37a. My experience with the amendments I've submitted to various bill proposals, especially those concerning human rights, is that it's very rare or only once I've managed to get the various cobwebs out of the world's view in various heads to be spread out at once. But the second or third time succeeds, so it becomes included and it begins to apply what I say is good for the local community, for those directly affected by the law, but also for the wider community. Maybe it's time we asked all of us to skip that first unnecessary grumbling to the obvious and that when we want to talk about some serious problem, to talk about it so that we can see that we want to solve it, not that we want to get it out of the way because we don't really like to deal with the rash and early leaving primary school. All children are equally important and every child is the center of this law. Whoever wants to challenge it, we can enter the controversy. I don't want to believe there's anyone in this room who wants to challenge me with those two simple sentences. In that name, I ask you not to write such explanations anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18781	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18782	Col. Komic, your explanation for this amendment reads as follows – this amendment is the consequence of Amendment Three and Amendment Four.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18783	Thank you. The 40th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. (Marco Atlagic, from the place: I answered the word. I didn't have anyone reported. Mrs. Comic, do you want a replica? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18784	I just said that, Amendments three and four are amendments to Article 25 and Article 26. So when amendments are handed over, then the arguments are also related, Articles 25 and 26, and the explanation that you give me is that it is not provided for in Article 25. Of course not, that's why I filed an amendment to Article 25. That's why, when I send you the amendment, I'm telling you why, as a result, the amendment is being made for amendments to Articles 25 and 26. We can outsmart ourselves about who's more skillful or more edgy in touch, but that, Minister, won't save us the same numbers in the number of children who leave school early. You can be right about everything you think is convenient because it's in line with the minister's and ministry's reputation, but it won't affect the number of children who leave school early, that's what this is about. My clear criticism of the arguments you sent us, it needs all of that to remind us, nothing more. Thank you anyway.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18785	Thank you. Dr. Marko Atlagic, by amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18786	Dear Chairman, I think what Mrs. Comic has come up with is an extremely important problem, precisely because the problem of rash is one of the most important and most important problems in elementary school. We don't need to discover hot water. This has been extremely well resolved in the past, and I'm going to make a suggestion on how this can be solved. In the explanation of article 37 of this amendment, the school is obliged to follow. I agree that it is also a school and I agree that the student is a center of education and education. Unfortunately, we had in the past ministers who claimed that the teacher of the centre, two previous before Mr. Obradovic, claimed publicly on TV that the centre of education and education is a teacher, ana student. What Mrs. Komic says I agree, she is a student, and accordingly I took part in helping these children because there is a large number of rashes in primary school. How can we solve this? Instead of school – local community. Please, there are at every municipality assembly in the department, head of the education department, so I don't suppose the teacher, teachers of water in the circle of the school, but my practice speaks, where local communities worked extremely well, that it worked well and that we reduced the number of rashes. Where local communities work badly, we can run an analysis at the ministry, and that's where we have problems. So I'm putting an accent on local communities or education and culture departments. Here we have experts and educators, cultural workers, etc. It is their obligation to run it, normal and school, co-operate with school principals and teachers, etc. I'm sorry for this intrusion, but I think the problem is extremely large, that the number of rashes is very high, that the call for us educators and every man who works on the jobs of education and education, that the number one saving these children is to finish primary school, and we can only do that if they engage in local communities. Now I'm gonna be critical. Who sits in our local communities, chiefs and engineers of engineering, instead of teachers and educators. There's a problem. That's what we had in the past. Where the pedagogues sit, there's no problem. We've got problems, but there's a smaller number of rashes. I'm sorry about this raid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18787	Thank you. Gordana Komic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18788	Just a brief remark. Since it really needs to be pulled out of my colleague's exposure, whether he supports the amendments or not, to assess. There were self-government interests and communities, somewhere that worked. There were various mechanisms in which they were solved, as they were called, social upgrades, but no more. Now we're talking about a law that needs to be settled in the future. We have a clear front in numbers of children leaving school early. We've got a drowsy. My question is very simple. No, why would those kids leave school too soon? That's easy. It's a context I'm bound to, before I write an amendment to know, or how it was 20 years ago or 30 years ago. This law should tell us how these kids are gonna be back at school in two years or a year? I don't know what we don't know. I can listen with patience and respect all the description and all the gossip of various solutions, but it's not the subject of this law. The theme of our dialogue is how you're going to reduce the number of children one to the table in 2011, to be zero on the table in 2012, I'm cartooning. That's the darkness. Does this law have such a mechanism? The answer for me is that it will be arranged by sublaws. We'll be here, and when the sublegal act is passed, and we'll be here to count again what happened from the successful reduction in child scarcity and their leaving school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18789	Thank you. Mr. Atlagic. Marco Atlagic. Just one sentence. I am glad that Mrs. Comic said that they were once communities of primary education and that they were, and instead of them, we introduced departments in the municipalities, and in two years, in three years, what the lady was talking about, will reduce the number of school leavings, provided that our chiefs of professional service there are educators and educators and not engineers of engineering. Please, we've solved this institutionally. In practice, unfortunately, we're not. Excuse me. Thank you. Mrs. Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18791	That's all it would be if it were. I can enjoy dialogue with fellow MPs if it were, to her what would be nice, it would be our mother's, but I can't go with the government's representatives. I don't know if you understand the difference. What you're talking about is going to happen, it doesn't say anything here. It doesn't say anything at all. Our proposal, Maje Vidinović and mine, is to write it down somewhere. The good thing about congregation debates is stenograms, a very good-looking thing. Well, you can bring those stenograms in three months, in six months or in a year, and then you can read it because there's no lie, there's no fraud, no one can fake your stenogram, so let's compare it. If it's up to anyone and he can confess in three or six months -- here I was wrong, you were right. It's not up to me to be Maja Vidinovic or me to be right, it's up to me to be less boys and girls who leave primary school prematurely. That we all have the same picture of how it's going to happen, when it's going to happen, who's going to be responsible for it, what's the political will for it, what's our guarantee that we can verify that it's really happening. It's our job as MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18792	The word has a folk letter from the magistrate Svetislava Bulajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18793	I thank you, the intervention may have been a little late because the discussion has developed, but since Col. Komic mentioned the stenograms, I am speaking to the Honorable Mr. Minister. Our reasoning on a fundamentally completely similar amendment that comes directly on one side, and we've been exactly the same. So the same thing is answered. I'll take the chance when we get to that amendment to answer that in a little more detail. But the fact is that I am pointing out that there is a recognized problem that is not adequately regulated by law, and therefore I assume that we are all making efforts and we are calling for the Minister and Government to respect our arguments, so I ask you that if a certain parliamentary group has not made a greater effort on this particular occasion, and ours is, to read these arguments and try to respect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18794	Anyone else want a word? (No) The MP Zlata Djeric submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has the People's Messenger Svetislav Bulajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18795	I'm sorry, I thought our amendment was up. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18796	Does anyone want a word about the amendment to Zlata Djeric? (No) Donka Banovic and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to the 40th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18797	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Ministers, we are now coming to the part of the law relating to programs that are extremely important because there are problems in society in schools that have no answer and therefore ask for clear instructions from the ministry, and that is why there are those huge affairs that we can all follow through the media and we are disgusted and endangering children's lives, even some of these affairs are known for being children either killed or otherwise killed. So, to very, very important topics, I underline. So these are programs to protect against violence, abuse and neglect and prevention of other forms of risky behavior. I have to say, here in this group of programs there are always those who only touch in principle. Indeed only very, very mildly stated that there are going to be done in one way or another. I fall into those like Mrs. Comic, after all, who said that really sublegal acts must follow the law when they come here before us. How are you gonna handle this? We will no longer have any insight into it, nor will we be able to intervene in that direction. That's why we felt it was very important for it to be regulated in law, although I see that there are creative interpretations that laws are actually necessary to have a lot of empty walk, in order to creatively interpret in the local and especially the schools of these laws. You have written here, I apologize, I am so bad-lighted that I may torture – in the realization of the programme of attitude 1, these are prevention, protection against violence, abuse, etc., including natural and legal persons from the territory of the unit of local self-government, institutions and areas of culture, sports, peers' individuals, as well as persons trained in prevention, intervention in the case of violence, abuse and neglect and other forms of risky behaviour. First, where are those faces dressed? Who's training them? How do we know they're the faces that need to get into school? I'll give you 1,000 examples, I wouldn't be able to say, in the non-governmental sector or individuals who claim to be very dressed for certain things, but we can't let them just show whether they're dressed or not, because we can't follow their certificates, which they don't or don't have. Schools are sensitive places. These are very sensitive programs, and that's why I think it's better to take care of it that way. In addition to local self-government, cultural and sports institutions, we felt that health institutions must come. I guess there are prevention programs where medical institutions can also provide you with help? Patronic services that do such programs and how important your partner is in this. What we put the accent on, besides identifying new partners in it, is that all these people, all these legal persons, have a certificate of programmes approved by the Ministry of Education. Also, the explanation says, what we all know will be governed by the rulebook. I'm sorry, I want to be governed by the law, because anyone who sees that law has to know what to apply in what program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18798	The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18799	I just want to commend this article 40. The law and I will say that among educational workers in Serbia there are a large number of professionals who are absolutely qualified to work to prevent violence, abuse and neglect. UNICEF's "No Violence School" project has been implemented since 2005 in Serbia, in over 200 schools. The programme runs about a hundred highly educated and trained mentors who have passed special training, which has been certified by the Ministry of Education. There are people who are trained for the KRIN project, to react in crisis interventions, who have also been through one quality training, and I deeply believe in these people, their experience and work so far, and I believe that they will absolutely, as far as co-operation with local self-government is concerned, also have a number of good examples. I will say that in the Kovin municipality continuously since 2004, a very successful programme has been implemented – prevention, addiction diseases and in all schools for counselling for children and parents, working with parents, organising sports activities, which are aimed at just promoting the fight against psychoactive substances, so that I can responsibly argue that there are exceptional staff from this area in Serbia and I simply think that they should be given the importance, include them that they can work with others and pass on their experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18800	Mrs. Vojić Markovic, there is no mention of your exposure, nor of you personally, of article 40, but you can later after Mr. Atlagic spend the time of the parliamentary group if you wish. On the contrary, there's a lot of us here and imagine if you were to replicate everyone. The word is Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18801	Madam Chairman, I think that this member is very important and that finally the Ministry of Education recognized everything that has been known for the last 15 years, or 20 years, as a consequence of failing to participate in school programmes, education as a category. We have identified here in article 40 of the consequences, but it is good that the Ministry recognized it and initiated it to work on a plan, or programme to overcome these consequences. I have to say this, finally, because I've been asked by many educators on a tour of the Republic of Serbia. It stands here, a protection program, and if I were in the Ministry, I would add to the article – students and teachers from violence, abuse, etc. We have a massive phenomenon of teaching abuse in schools, we have fights of teachers, etc. What is further said, protection from alcoholism, we even have teachers who are prone to it, etc. Therefore, it may not be bad to think and to protect teachers from abuse. I advocate that schools, and I see that the Ministry has initiated this in this law, to make good plans and school programs, educational programs, because I recently asked a school director if you have an educational plan and a school programme, and he says he has no plan, he has a program, I have an education program. I'm throwing an accent on the word – educational and then we won't talk about violence, because violence is the result of rudeness, because we don't conduct education at school, so if you want to even, we've ignored it even in the family, on the street, etc. If I didn't say that we neglected at times in this congregation, because we wouldn't get notices and punishments to stick to discipline. I'm sorry for the intrusion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18802	National MPs Judita Popovic, Natasa Micic, Svetislava Bulajic, Radmila Gerov, Miljenko Dereta and Zarko Korac together have submitted an amendment suggesting that a new member and a new member of 40a be added after article 40a. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment, and the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a folk letter from Svetislava Bulajić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18803	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Government, as I said earlier, is about the amendment of our parliamentary group concerning, as we have called this new member whom we propose, to the programme to prevent school students from being disincentived and to explain the government to reject this amendment, it is said that the amendment is not accepted for the reason that Article 25(2) of point 4. The bill stipulates that the school's development plan should contain measures to prevent the students from debilitating. We have, in particular, invested our members, namely the amendment in relation to this amendment on 25 and 26, arguing that there is a qualitative difference between the measures and the programmes we propose, just referring to what is in your strategy, and the data is alarming. Just to quote, it's part of our argument, the data show that the education system does not support the constitutional right to education for about 28,000 children aged seven to 14 years, and since we have discussed in principle the possibility that, in some long term, we have the ambition to send higher levels of secondary education to the required level and we feel that this is very important, not getting into what is appropriate or inadequate, and what is the discretion of individual schools to sort of send this problem and try to bring things into order, not even claiming that this is adequate or inadequate, I draw attention to you to allow the programme, in addition to these measures and activities, to enable the Ministry to sort of monitor these measures and activities, because in the case of adoption of programmes and obligations, to keep you informed and to advise and only the Ministry. So, in that sense, we felt that it was necessary to define measures and activities a little bit more clearly, to prescribe obligations for schools to be part of the development plan. What is particularly important and why I particularly react, which is that by accepting such an amendment, this issue, the approach to preventing the rash of students and those who, unfortunately, fail to complete even basic school education, and thus respond to the great interest of the European Union in this kind of problem. As you know, this is closely monitored, first of all because of certain sensitive populations, it's mostly Roma, but also some other populations, and what's most interesting, so all observations, given that the state is what it is, which relates to the inadequacy of individual schools' measures and activities, will be attributed to the state as a whole. In that sense, it will in some way reflect our success, achieving that part of the strategy or achieving new assumptions for better regulation of this problem, and we ask you to reconsider this and possibly change your position in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18804	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric to Article 41. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers the amendment with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Dusan Petrovic, Sanja Cekovic, Bosko Ristic, Milovan Markovic and Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 42nd amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a National MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18805	I thank the chairman. Why have we submitted this amendment? So, we think that every child in primary school when it comes to his future, as well as when it comes to the professional orientation of each child deserves to have a special team, that special team is made up of at least three people, of which two are actually employed in school, a class elder and an expert associate. Why a class elder and an expert associate? Because they are best directed and have the best knowledge in these areas and can have a quality influence on the choice, i.e. the professional orientation of the child. Of course, the third key person is the parent himself, but it is important that such a team of professional orientations, which is established in each school, for each child, be precisely defined and composed of specific individuals. So, when you put that in your bill of law, it says that the expert team is made by teachers and professional associates, when you put them to do so by certain persons, then no one will do so and no one will do so. I know, I worked at school and I know how things work. When you do this general norm, no one will deal with children, their professional orientation won't be dealt with by anyone or they'll take a job from one another, so we'll have different teachers, different professional associates, then they'll be all, and in fact they won't have a problem and then they'll have a problem, and the key thing in school is eventually sending a child to the next degree of education, referring to a professional choice of profession, so that's the key thing. One more thing, I didn't understand why you put the term "class elders" here, but there's a term called "departmental elders." Well, as if now we don't know that everyone had a class elder in their lives and that none of you had a class elder, so you don't know what this is about. So I agree it's not a valid term, but the fact is, you know what I'm talking about. Each of you sitting here was perhaps a class elder. Now you're going to say -- we don't know now, so since we don't know it's being applied anymore, now you don't accept it, among other things, the amendment. Let me get back to the beginning. I believe that this is how a provision is put in place, that a professional orientation team is made up of teachers, and that professional associates will lead to no one's dealing with a particular professional orientation. That is why we are looking for the name and last name of a certain professional associate, a classmate, or a class elder and parents, so that they are dedicated, have in that program a specific time and hours dedicated to each student in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18806	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The 42nd Amendment was jointly submitted by the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 43rd amendment was submitted by the MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic together submitted to Article 43 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic submitted together to Article 44 of the amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18807	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, ministers, representatives of the government, my distinguished colleague and I have submitted an amendment to Article 44, we have actually added a new position on social protection at school. To read for the sake of the public and for your sake, gentlemen of Parliament, what we wanted, which is our intensity, which was our intention. In Article 44, a new position of 2 is added – to follow the social protection measure, especially for students from sensitive social groups at school, we talked today about inclusion, about these sensitive social groups and how. It is mandatory to form a team consisting of expert associates and representatives of class councils, etc. So, our intention is to have this team formed at school, primarily by sociologists, psychologists, educators, and by the director himself, a member of the teaching council, follow and above all, socially sensitive groups for their quality social protection. I don't see why you ministers didn't accept this amendment, because, in fact, we want to make this amendment an imperative provision for this member of the law and to oblige the professionals working at school to monitor the work of sensitive social groups, in terms of social protection. So that was our intention. I expect first of all that you will reconsider your decision and accept this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18808	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) National MP Ana Novkovic has submitted an amendment, proposing that a new title and a new member of 44a be added after article 44a. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Donka Banović and Milica Vojic Markovic submitted together to the 45th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, National MP Donka Banovic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The word has a national MP, Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18809	This member normally regulates, i.e. talks about a co-operation programme with local self-government, and the first one says that co-operation with local self-government is realised on the basis of a programme of co-operation with local self-government, which forms part of the school programme, and then the following attitude states that school monitors and engages in local self-government units' territory and together with its presidents plan content and method of co-operation. What does the amendment contain? In addition, before we said "the school follows and participates in events", we suggested adding the word "to initiate school co-operation with the local self-government unit and to propose content", etc. We all know that the school in some place is very often a driver of different activities and that they are then actually animated by other people from their town to get involved, etc. Well, you didn't recognize it that way. What I find interesting about this amendment is an explanation. It seems that these people who wrote the explanation have already tired themselves of writing, so at one point they decided to be a joke. I got an explanation why the word "initiate" is not accepted - because the word "initiates" the foreign word and that that is why the minister, or the ministry, cannot accept it. If that was the reason, you could have said that you would have accepted if I suggested another word, so I could have, say, suggested it was "starter," not initiated. I understand that even the promoter had a need to be nagging, not to use any other word, by making yourself a problem now because in this first attitude you also used the word "realize". And that's a word of foreign origin, and that's where it's supposed to stand "to accomplish" etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18810	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) Members of the 46th Amendment were submitted by MPs Ivana Dinic and Zvonimir Stević. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 46 of the amendment, MP Milica Vojić Markovic submitted. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by the MPs Milica Vojić Markovic and Donka Banovic. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milica Vojić Markovic, Donka Banović and Aleksandar Pejcic together submitted to the title above the 50th and the 50th amendment. The government and the resolution committee have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 51 of the amendment, together with the correction, the MPs of the people were submitted by Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojaković, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Jovana Mehandzic. The government and the resolution committee did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18811	In this amendment, we have tried to look at the real possibilities of schools in Serbia and we have come from the facts, as has been repeatedly repeated here, that many schools in Serbia do not even have toilets, let alone have websites. That's why there'll be even less time in the future. We said we were the minister and asked him to ask the first Deputy Prime Minister or Minister of Finance, Mr. Vukic, or Dinkic, if the Ministry of Education would keep the budget in this area. I guess one, the other and the third have been busy these days with other jobs and you haven't been able to ask them, so I don't know if schools will have the resources for this website. That's why we predicted the possibility, if that website didn't exist, that everything on it would be printed and published in writing, even if it was on plain paper, so that the children would be familiar. So, we suggested that attitude 5 be deleted, which says that the school is obliged to have its own website, because otherwise they would add another position, that the competent ministry is obliged to provide schools with funds for the website. If you're not bound by it, then it's hard for schools to meet their obligation. I mean all schools. I'm sure some of them can. Maybe 70%-80% of schools, but hardly all schools. So, that this provision, instead of imperative, is converted to dispositive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18812	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18813	Well, there's a lot of controversy beyond what the real frameworks of the education system are. The so-called teaching costs do not cover the Ministry of Education from the Government of the Republic of Serbia at all, but local self-government. The budgets of local self-government are not all equal in their potential. They suffer a lot of blows and the crisis that exists, but I find it difficult to find schools, at least in central Serbia's territory, which, with the support of their local self-government, have mostly not done in an extremely valid way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18814	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18815	If anyone had come forward except for the representatives of the United Regions, that would have been quite all right. However, their minister took both the soul and the citizens of local self-government with local self-government, so I don't know from which budget local self-government they will provide funding for the website, and we see what happens to the budget at the republican level, and you've already taken money from local self-government. You're processing the data without the right source information. It is not true that all schools in Serbia have the opportunity to address this issue adequately. I can tell you that not all schools can solve this issue. They're having problems with some other basic issues, like the toilet issue, so how can you say they have the opportunity to solve the Internet issue if they can't solve the toilet issue?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18816	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Sasa Milenić, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18817	Please don't take up the time of the parliamentary group, I'm replicating as an authorised representative on behalf of the parliamentary group. It is perfectly incorrect information that the United Regions of Serbia can qualify as someone who has sharpened against the budgets of local self-government, the matter is already on the contrary. Let me remind you, from the time of partnership with your political organisation, our package of decentralisation laws, which we have implemented through this Assembly, has been reduced precisely at the request of the older coalition partner, DS, although for a much wider range of decentralisation, including fiscal ones, we have had support in the up until now the largest legislative initiative of citizens in the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia. Let me remind you, our bill has been signed by about half a million citizens. If the latest changes to which some of the funds previously allocated to local self-government are denied, this in the pool, when it is taken away, are still an increase in the budget of local self-government on the same basis compared to the situation found in the previous one. In addition, the basis of the United Regions of Serbia programme is precisely the affirmation of the position of local self-government in all relevant actions, so, here, right through the discussion of these laws, we believe that this is possible in the field of education. Local self-government is a significant part of the financial burden for the functioning of the education system, and they do not have that much space for creative contributions to the improvement of the system. (President: Time, Mr. Milenich. ) However, in this segment of the amendment that is being touched, I am speaking really based on the limited experience of cities and municipalities in central Serbia, the problem is mainly... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18818	Thank you, Mr. Milenich. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18819	This concludes this part of the replica. It is absolutely incorrect what my colleague said, that the United Regions, or G17 earlier, affirm local self-government. Ask any mayor or president of the municipality in Serbia if he has a higher budget than he did a year ago, two years ago or three years ago. No, local self-governments are squirming in trouble, because the central government has taken away their funds for basic functions. Not only are the reduced investments, they have been halved in some municipalities and cities, but the reduced funds for the existence of local self-government, the maintenance of roads exactly the issues we have talked about, regarding schools, homes of health and everything that is in the power of local self-government, so it is not true that local self-governments have bigger budgets. The reverse is true, and everyone in local self-government knows it well, and even citizens feel it, because they see the state of the local self-government and see that not only are roads not built, but even the existing local roads are not maintained, and even the grass does not cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18820	Since we're away from the subject, I have to break the line on this subject. The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18821	Only two sentences for this article. I think it's a good thing the Ministry of Education put this on the website, but it's also true that not all schools can achieve it in due time, but we're making the law not for today but for tomorrow. Each school will present itself in its own way and that is not the problem. What I noticed here today is that the Ministry of Education is composed of ten people, and that's good for me. I can see that they're watching closely and they're recording some of the things we suggested here. In the end, I'm taking the opportunity for a single misunderstanding between the education workers and the ministry. I asked a question about the teacher's preparation. Since we're being watched by educators, I'd like to inform you that the ministry is not looking for the writing of daily preparation of teachers for the teaching process, but for individual arbitrary directors. So don't point your finger at the ministry, but at your directors, because when I went to some schools, I felt like they were pointing a finger at the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18822	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18823	Dear Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here are all of you who are attacking the DS for this amendment, which says that every school is obliged to have a website, I call upon you as soon as the elections in Zajecar pass to focus a little on the rest of Serbia. Who wants to come with me and whoever wants to go from the Ministry of Education to the village of Rosci, at the top of the Cablar, to tell me how you're gonna make a website there at school? Should we go to the village of Ducholovic in Ovcara and tell me how the school there is going to make a website? Let's go to Vucje, Grdelica, see the schools without the toilets, see if the first sentence on the website will read - dear children, until the first toilet you have four kilometers, so hold on. That's not good. I ask you from the ministry, what my distinguished colleague Janko Veselinovic asked you, how much money will the finance minister give you, Mladjan Dinkic and Mr Aleksandar Vukic now, with the budget rebalance and will the Ministry of Finance be as kind and merciful to education? You can solve this problem if you match the price of the math test with the height of the consumer basket, and if you put the cost on the Serbian test in a visible place, the price to put in it, and fill the budget through these imbalances, but I think the Serbian citizens saw it today. I guess you'll pay back the money to these people who paid for the tests.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18824	Thank you. The word has Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18825	I just want to inform the MPs or MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the resolution ministry together with Telecom two and a few years ago carried out a good action. Telecom then committed himself and did so, as he informed us, that each of the 1804 schools had the opportunity to be connected to the internet. I guess he did the same thing with the highest number of out-of-state schools. I can't say for sure. As far as this second question is concerned, toilets, I want to inform you that thanks to one World Bank loan, we are in a position to implement this project and that all the out-of-date departments of parent schools that don't possibly have a toilet, that we are going to do so and that this issue will be resolved. I have to tell you that this problem is going on. I find it interesting to have an upper hand about money. Since I was a minister in the previous government, you didn't give me any money either. You didn't give me money for it, and now you're criticizing what it was. You're not, like many other things, but I can understand the political upgrade and use of certain topics to prove someone right. Since I'm a minister in two governments, I'm in a position to make a sort of comparison and know exactly what who did and how he treated education. I'm telling you, there wasn't any money back then. There's no money now. Not as much as it should be. I know that when I began my term five years ago, the budget of the Ministry of Education was a billion 350m euros. After two and a half years he fell 180 million less. You can understand for yourself what this information means for the Ministry of Education and what opportunity to solve the issues of infrastructure or the purchase of equipment we are talking about at all. The school network is very large, the number of objects is very large, and the material possibilities are low. Today and earlier I mentioned that there are several important limiting functions for future development of the education system, demographic situation, economic situation. Will and knowledge are not lacking, but sometimes they are limited by these two factors. It's something we need to understand if we want to. If we don't, it's a personal matter again. It's not simple. It seems to me that fellow Milivojevic said the essence of the relationship that exists in education. We solve a series and a series of accumulated problems, not from the previous government, but from a decade before, maybe from a decade before that, with an attempt and I think we manage to solve the problems without causing social breakdowns and earthquakes that would disrupt the functioning of the system. When we had a principle debate, one of the MPs mentioned that one of the essential conditions was the quality of the education system and its perseverance. Education is something that cannot be broken overnight or changed overnight because it tangs a large number of people. The measures taken must be well-founded. We try to keep the moves we make in line with the profession and the possibilities. I know how much local self-government gives in relation to the economic situation that exists in Serbia. It should not be forgotten that since September 2008, there has been a crisis and that this crisis has entered the door of our house called Serbia and I know how many local self-governments and how they allocate funds for education. It's not just the material costs, but the funding of different elements of the education system at local level. That's what most of them do and to the greatest possible extent. Our finance ministry experts estimate that 0.8% of GDP is set aside at local level for education. It is something to be appreciated, because a large number of girls and boys are stimulated by local self-government in different ways, beyond those obligations established by the law, to make any better or to have their good results respected and rewarded. I thank them for that. It's not demagogy, it's reality, because when I look at what kind of problems they're facing in a situation of this kind of economic nature, whoever they're accusing of this economic situation, the fact is that local self-governments single out a lot of money for local education needs. It's something we should appreciate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18826	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18827	I have to make a little joke that you ministers are much better in the afternoon than you are this morning and that you probably found these who stole the tests and put them on the market. A little joke, a little real. On the other hand, I don't think you're saying quite frankly that it's just as hard in the previous government as in this one. You know how many technology parks were started in the previous government and almost finished while you were Minister, before that Mr. Djelic, how many scientific projects were funded, and some are still funded with little difficulty, how many apartments were made for young scientific workers, how much was invested in primary, secondary schools, which local self-government, which helped the state. I don't think you were honest in that part, that you'd be happy to go back to the old place, to the old government, to the old flock, but that's not possible anymore. On the other hand, I don't think Mr. Vukic and Dinkic have informed you of one very important thing again. You mentioned that Telecom has taken the obligation to make it possible to join an internet school in Serbia. The two of them decided to privatize Telecom, Mr. Obradovic, so you won't have that option, because the stranger who comes and buys Telecom will probably ask for something to be charged and to finance that internet connection.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18828	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18829	Either I didn't say it in a clear way, or you didn't get it right. Telecom's already done it. I don't expect him to. At least that's what they told us. If they cheated on us, I cheated on you, because 1804 are schools and that's two years old. When it comes to this second question, I am pleased that today's repeat math exam has passed in perfect order and has proved to be justified, logical, accurate, courageous, how will you, the decision of the commission led by my colleague Kostic and me as minister that because of these irregularities that exist we are moving mathematics without affecting neither the equality of the conduct of the exam nor the whole, let me say, the scope of the obligations ahead. We received from the president of your parliamentary group of documents, as he said, which may look like tests from the Serbian language. We will give them to the people of the Office for Quality Assessment, to see if these documents are involved. If these are really documents, or if they are tests, of course, we will send them in the morning of the Criminal Commission Administration, that they take further measures in accordance with the law, and then you will probably help us further in the investigation to see how these documents were found and how they even affected the regularity of the Serbian language test. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18830	Mr. Veselinović has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18831	Your mood still stems from another cause, not because you found the perpetrators. I'm glad if we're going to contribute to finding those perpetrators. I would not, in any sarcastic way, be referring to the goodwill of the MPs of the DS, or the head of the parliamentary group, to make you available. He gave a good legal view, that he did not claim to ask to be examined etc. In that sense, I ask you to take this as a very well-intentioned response to your call to do everything to make sure that the perpetrators of the crime find themselves, and don't in 10, 15 days, as they say, be eaten by the donkey wolf and there's nothing from the investigation, like with the announcements of this government, that in 15 days there's no speech, because it's going to replace some new affair of this affair. We know what happened to aflatoxin and other affairs, so I don't count them, who followed this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18832	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18833	My colleague Veseninović, it was not sarcastic at all. I saw a colleague Stefanovic choose his words carefully, as an experienced lawyer. I wrote down exactly what he said. I absolutely appreciate that, because I noticed that he chose the words, then I tried to repeat what he said, and we'll see tomorrow by the director of the Bureau whether it was the tests and then direct the criminal police administration. I expect the MP to respond to the invitation to provide information on the origin of these documents.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18834	The word has a national emissary, Ana Novkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18835	I disagree with the proposed amendment. I will only remind you that in the previous period through a digital school project, every school, even an outcast department in Serbia, that they have received computers. Secondly, renting an Internet domain doesn't cost much more than printing this brochure, and I don't think it's some very large cost to local self-government that pays material costs to schools. I'll give you an example. In the Kovin municipality, led by members of the party up to a certain time by just the ones being attacked by the URS, they left a surplus in the budget of 200m dinars. So they couldn't even spend money. I think we should do something ourselves. They can't do everything by the ministers and the government. We're supposed to roll up our sleeves at the bar, go through some of those local budgets. I think there's going to be a lot more money for education than renting these internet domains. Secondly, Internet sites can maintain, say, professors, even students who have information as part of practice. Of course, there's an opportunity for them to apply acquired knowledge. So we don't always have to pay for everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18836	In order, the next one is Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18837	The Honorable chairman, as DS representatives accused Mr. Vukic of not giving money and Finance Minister Mladjan Dinkic, I will give a solution. We'll set up money for the website when we get the robbed money back from Agrobank, the second, the robbed money from Vojvodina Development Bank. Third, Minister Dragin is from the DS, and was arrested for robbery. Furthermore, Minister Dulic was arrested for robbing only 500,000 euros for billboards, and one billboard is 25,000 euros. When we get the money back from Mr. Miskovic, so-called. "The garbage mafia", in Belgrade, was ruled by a court of 310 million dinars. Is their mayor in charge of Belgrade and your minister, Mr Milivojevic? Dragan Sutanovac damaged the budget of the Republic of Serbia during the purchase of the mobile system...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18838	Mr. Atlagic, I am obliged to warn you that you should speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18839	I'm done. For 200m dinars, the state auditor's report, therefore, not the press, for 2011 and the administration of President Nikolic saved 20m dinars in six months, unlike President Tadic. When we get that money back, we'll take the website. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18840	Only one can get the right to a replica, therefore, or Mr. Veselinovic on behalf of DS. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18841	He mentioned DS and mentioned Srdjan Milivojevic himself. So, I think you should give the word to me and Mr. Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18842	I'm glad you feel that way, but I'm still deciding on the right to a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18843	Okay. What is done at eight o'clock, last time Mr. Babic, now Mr. Atlagic, did in a very inappropriate way accuses DS, the SNS has a manner that when there is no answer to clear questions moving into already well-known quotes. We could ask you what happened to "Yugoscanka", "Dafiment Bank", and even "Delta," etc., which financed your presidential candidate. If your president had saved, he did, because he's not traveling anywhere, he's not calling anyone. He was in several countries he gave the medal before he left to receive him in the audience, but there were no results. We are all in a deeper and deeper crisis because of you, because you are not seriously involved in politics, which Serbia is not in the first place, but your party book, gentlemen of the SNS and we will not get far with you. Inflation is getting higher every day, wages are getting lower, jobs are getting smaller, and you are getting more and more boastful. So this kind of policy and this kind of answer to these specific questions that we're asking you don't make any sense. You don't give for school or health care, so there's no medicine. Tomorrow there won't be anything else that the people need. You took absolute power and you're trying to execute a dictatorship, but we're not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18844	Time. Thank you. The People's MP Veroljub Arsic, in the name of the SNS, has the right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18845	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been an MP to the opposition for many years. In each of my presentations, I tried to attack the ruling majority, but also to tell the truth. Inflation in May is 0%. You can say whatever you want, but that's right. When it comes to an affair related to aflatoxin, it gets a finale, which is that corn has been stolen from the stock reserves and during your term, so you tried an aflatoxin affair to burn down corn that doesn't exist. The biggest culprit for this seems to me to be the province's agriculture secretary, Mr. Jesic. Don't ask us about it. When you mention "Jugoscan", then the SNS did not exist, and Mr Nikolic and Mr. Vukic were not even in power. Obviously, you have a perception. The world seems to exist only since October 5, 2000. When it comes to "Delta" and financing, it was not me, not Vukic, nor Nikolic, who met with Mr Miskovic, they were not co-owners of "Presa", but the president of the DS and mayor of Belgrade, Mr Gilas. That's the facts. What you're saying seems to me that this very sun is affecting some of us here. I would ask you to consider the words you have spoken when the time is a little bit fresher.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18846	Since we're away from the subject, it's my duty to break the line. We'll forget our agenda theme. We're going back to the agenda. (Srdjan Milivojevic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18847	Madam Chairman, it is not appropriate for the assembly session to end with the violations of the Rules of Procedure. I shall advertise Article 104 - if the MP in his presentation at the session of the National Assembly is insulting to the MP who is not a member of the same parliamentary group, stating his name and name...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18848	Thank you, Mr. Milivoevich. Since you've advertised Article 104, I'll remind you of the position of the 5th member, where it is said that the chairman decides on the right to a replica, so that we don't waste any time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18849	Give me those two minutes. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18850	You want a new member? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18851	I am advocating Article 103 - The National MP has the right to orally point to an infringement in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly, if he considers that he does not comply with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, which are done at the session of the National Assembly, which is in progress and immediately after the injury has been done. The MP cannot point to an injury in the actions of the president of the National Assembly that has already been indicated. The President of the National Assembly shall give a word to the People's Parliament, which shall indicate the infringement referred to in Article 1 immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed, by the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have the advantage. You didn't let me explain to you where you injured Article 104. Rules of Procedure, you've already hypothetically predicted what I'm going to tell you. Listen, Mr. Arsic, it looks like this heat is really affecting you. Let me finish next time. You were supposed to give me a violation of the Rules of Procedure and a replica of the presentation of Professor Mark Atlagic. You have no right to judge whether I feel offended by his malicious words or not. Once again, I ask you to give me the right to replica by Article 104.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18852	Are you done hurting the Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Let me answer you. So, in accordance with Article 104, which you mentioned, there is one position that says that a decision on the right to replication, on who has the right to reply, is decided by the chairman. Allow me to apply the Rules of Procedure and in those cases when MPs are away from the subject of the agenda, it is my duty to, in accordance with Article 27, respecting the dignity of the National Assembly, to decide who has the right to reply, of course, when we go beyond the subject. Mr. Milivoevich, we're approaching the end of business hours. I ask the MPs who have applied for the word, and regarding the amendments... (Srdjan Milivojevic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Milivoevich.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18853	I am advocating Article 32 — Vice-President of the National Assembly, Vice-President of the National Assembly, to assist the President of the National Assembly in doing business from his work...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18854	Mr. Milivoevich, you're using the Rules of Procedure. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18855	I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Kovac, you've just been sued for mobing... [[off microphone]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-19-0.u18856	We're going back to work. (People MP Srdjan Milivojevic throws out of place. Mr. Millyvoy, I give you a second warning, as you throw it to me. Given that it is now 19.55 hours, I suggest we finish working for today and continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 86 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Given that today is Thursday, I am asking - whether one of the presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk letter from Olena Papuga. Here you go.
