ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23421	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, during the entire previous day I listened carefully to the principle debate on the Law on Legalisation and finally applied for a debate on this point. I have to say that I'm not sure now, Mr. Minister, whether you're for or against this law, because listening to everything we actually heard yesterday I got the impression that you're not even sure we need this law or we don't need it right now. The Joint Parliamentary Group for Serbia believes Serbia needs the Law on Legalisation because of 700,000 cases and because of 1,200,000 illegally built objects, but the question is whether we need such a law on legalisation. We have submitted nine amendments to this law and our support for this law will actually depend on how our amendments will be treated when their turn comes. I think the citizens expected a lot from this law, but what's crucial is that I don't think they got a solution, that they didn't get it in this law. Everyone expected that this law would finally solve the problem, that one day they would draw a line and that we would no longer have problems with illegal construction and with illegally built buildings. In the past few days in the campaign for this law, you have in fact in some way knowingly or unconsciously led the citizens astray, because by advertising them in fact this law spoke about the Law on Special Rules for the registration of property rights to immovable property. Now they don't know if they're enrolling property rights or legalizing objects. I think that's what you're obliged to explain to citizens who really had and have great expectations. What's very important to me, I'd like you to give me answers to a few questions, and it concerns an analysis of the effects of this law. So have you in the ministry considered, or do you have any projections of how many of these objects will be legalized in this year or next? Of how many objects will be legalized, one of the effects of the law, which is how many of our architects, designers, professional services will be hired and further employed to do this job. Another question to which I expect an answer – how much do you think the objects will never be legalized? How many objects will be destroyed? Do you have any information, or projections in the ministry, how many objects under this law will have to be destroyed? It also produces some engagement in some people's employment. How many people do you think will be involved in the legalization of objects? I also think it's a very important question, given that it's one of the effects of the law that needs to be discussed. In addition, I think it is very important that we have missed one serious opportunity to reach a consensus on this issue. All MPs in this room feel that this is a very important issue and that legalisation must be completed once. These objects that we're talking about, which should be legalized, if they're not legalized, which actually comes from these questions, that leads us to miss out on the opportunity for these objects to be later isolated. We'll miss out on the opportunity to be more energy efficient, to be more energy efficient as a state and save some big money for our country. So, because of these questions, I expect really serious answers, because that means that in some perspective we engage our domestic construction industry in isolated jobs, to organize our domestic industry to produce insulating material, to produce carpentry, to produce doors. These are all domestic products for which there is a possibility of hiring domestic labour. I am talking about billions of euros in future investments in energy efficiency that we may miss if this law does not provide the effects that we all expect it to provide. It is therefore very important that we know what effects this law will produce in the everyday life of our citizens. I don't think yesterday we got any answers to all these questions. I don't want to make your position more difficult, I see you're in a lot of trouble, I can see that you're not particularly satisfied with the law, but that this is a job that needs to be done and a parliamentary group together for Serbia won't make life any more difficult for you. For the sake of Serbian citizens, we are obliged to get answers to these questions. Our wish from the beginning was to fix the law, and that is why we have put these amendments into place to discuss. I hope that once this debate is over, we will eventually come to these rules that will provide us with certain legal certainty and that will allow citizens and all of us to behave more responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23422	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23423	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin by reading something to you: "It is enough to take one critical look to see that Belgrade does not look like the capital at all. It represents the summation of our negligence and indifference, the pattern of disorder and sage. We have developed and progressed, and Belgrade has remained raving, guilty, ugly, dirty, messy. “ Replace the word “Belgrade” by any populated city, any city in Serbia, and you will get the same result. This is not a quote from some of today's newspapers, this is a quote from the "Odek", published in 1911. So 102 years ago. All that is said here in Serbia today, except for the fact that Belgrade and then the capital did several thousand illegal objects, and that today in Serbia you have almost a million and 300 thousand such objects. You, Mr. Ilic, spoke fairly freely yesterday, in some way and fairly, to ignore for a moment the fact that in yesterday's debate, in one way or another, there were confessions, so a few dozen violations of the law, not to say, criminal acts, and that in this room, there was less laughing, at the usual comment – that's what we are. It actually describes today's Serbia as a country that is also in this area rests on the Burazer principles, as almost every other area of social relations. The issue of urbanization, modernization, life-style editing, building arrangements, functioning of the legal order, the functioning of the state as a service for people who want to build something can, within an appropriate, reasonable, normal time-limit to provide permits if they meet all the conditions, is not a question for the last decade and the last few decades, a question that has been constantly avoided in this country for almost 150 years. At the end of the 19th century it took 40 years to adopt the Law on Belgrade and construction in Belgrade, so when the city's district was built and the conditions for building it, then people, since the state has set such impossible conditions for obtaining the permits of the then, began to flee the area and to build without permission and to build wild ones. When the area spread, it moved on. Then many economic, economic factors further influenced, and so happened in the 1990s, so when today's biggest ruling party, the Serbian Progressive Party, with so much heat, trying to explain how it would solve this long and big problem, all or almost all of its responsibility is trying to transfer to those who have been in power for the past 10 years, they should also remember what construction looked like in the early 1990s, for example, in the area of the then Zemun municipality. So no one is innocent in this story and that is one of the main reasons why LDP thinks this bill will not solve this key problem either. This is an ad hoc solution. You, Mr. Ilic, said yesterday that it would provide a permanent solution, relying on, however, more on the newly announced law on planning and construction than on the provisions and solutions that will arise under this law. I assume that, and you didn't say that, like many ministers before you, you wanted to say that now that a new, revolutionary law on planning and construction is passed, this line will finally be drawn and how we're going to go in light, construction, Dutch future in which everyone will be able to get permission for the longest 30 days, illegal construction, etc., etc. However, the problem has not yet, Mr. Ilic, and we have tried to convince the previous ministers, they have not listened to us, it has never been within the law itself. The problem is the chaos that is constantly generated in Serbia, and this chaos is primarily generated by the state. So people had a thousand problems building objects. People aren't idiots, no one wants to build an anchor without a sewer, no water, no infrastructure, but the state doesn't allow it. They pay taxes, the state can't make way for them. They're barely able to understand that famous electricity bill for electricity, and the martyrs pay that electricity, and then they have hell from a counter worker to a middle-level father in that public company around the electricity connection. For tens of years in this country, the fact is whether you're going to have a simple phone connection or not to have one, determined a master's answer on the ground, had a pair or didn't have a pair. That depends on whether people will have a phone. When some last governments said – okay, some date exists from 2010, just file any request, people were all told to file even empty paper with signature and address and you entered the procedure. When you want with so much 700,000 demands to enter the procedure, in the country and every new political set, and you talked about it yesterday, it brings to all the municipal, state, republican services and public enterprises of its staff, of course it will not be resolved. When the political parties that are in power today, some of them were in the past term, some were fierce opposition, in a demagogue and populist way acting in the campaign, so they tell people that they will be able to legalise objects almost free of charge. You know what a normal reaction is in both your Cačka and so organized Zrenjanin and elsewhere in Serbia. They say, let's stop by this procedure a little bit because when these new ones come, they'll be cheaper or let me build, and after 2010, the state never draws a line, so they won't pull now. Someone's compensation for the voice is measuring the pressure, someone's frame for the glasses, and someone's promise to legalize the facility. In the meantime, it's usually 300 square meters. But how can people behave differently when the state is such an example. You, Mr. Ilic, say, "What am I supposed to do, how am I supposed to file criminal charges against my fellow ministers?" What your fellow ministers did or did, and you say for yourself, is nothing compared to what's going on at some other lower, middle-level state. So much arbitration, so much self-will, and the disgusting traits that have once again generated the state in the Serbian act, that for lunch, lamb, or some form of envelope can do anything but can't do anything. It's a key problem. You and this law don't provide people with legal certainty. People don't know whether, even if they meet all these impossible conditions or in the vast majority of cases, the conditions of this law will be impossible, whether they will be peaceful, safe. You can't, Mr. Ilic, make a legal order on the fact or on your claim, a belief, so when a neighbor will let his neighbor build something. They're only in a situation where the state doesn't provide a legal framework trying to sort of manage. That, if you will, is the key generator of corruption in this country on a daily basis, in front of a million counters. What do you think the fate of a man who walks in front of a counter, if the Minister of Energy waits half an hour? Okay, next time, they'll learn to recognize the minister's color when he calls over the phone and he'll behave more politely and politely, but what happens when an ordinary man walks in front of a counter? You don't even have all the local self-government that they can, or that they could accept the requirements of the past law, they won't even be able to under this law. Of course, this law is also unconstitutional in several places, because the situation that he needs to regulate is so abnormal and dissuaded, that looking at the classic category of equality and equality of citizens before the law is not a solution at all, because illegal construction in Serbia is not an incident, is not the consequence of the ambition of a few people to avoid the law, it is a mass phenomenon. If you have a million and 300 thousand objects in this country built without all the necessary paper, if you decide to tear down those objects, of course you won't tear them down. It would be more of a destruction of this country than any destruction in the past wars that have occurred in, say, the last 200 years. Why is there still a problem for us? We've already said, a colleague Popovic yesterday, I think in a brilliant way, has secededed all the problems of this law. We didn't accidentally submit 32 amendments to your bill, Mr. Ilic. Neither of these amendments is a simple amendment, "is deleted", nor has any amendment been submitted in an ambition to obstruct the adoption of this law. Of course, we do not expect you to adopt, we expect that most of these amendments will not be adopted, because it would completely bring down your ambition, when I say yours, I mean not just you, but the whole government you represent, to somehow pass a legal act that would skip the obstacle set by the Constitutional Court, that nothing should actually be resolved in the meantime, and that the debate on this law, Mr. Ilic, to a small part of you, and the largest ruling party at the moment, served as another weapon in achieving some of their daily political goals. Yesterday in this debate there was so much of this completely unnecessary anti - city, anti - urban attitude, especially in relation to Belgrade, and again, it is not the first time. They were destroyed in this building, though not in this building, because just over 100 years ago, this country had no parliament building because it could not build it among other things and because it was urbanally unedited, Serbia's interior MPs claimed that there should be no tax relief in Belgrade for those who build a two-story facility, because it violates citizens' equality, and therefore, in part, the centre of Belgrade still looks what it looks like, and the vast majority of cities in Serbia are almost completely unedited, along with individual palaces that have been the expression of personal ambition or the possibility of being in some principle or municipality, as we say today, find a connection. I believe that hundreds of thousands of people, as much as they had no confidence in what we're doing and Parliament yesterday, were trying to get close to the television to finally get out of this debate, or the television news that followed this debate, figure out how they'd be able to legalize the facility, how much it would cost them to legalize the facility, and that's the key question. You, Mr. Ilic, are unable to answer this law or cannot answer the key question under what conditions, which deadlines and at what cost people will be able to legalize objects. Since we're politicians, so we're used to saying something and there's something going on, so when you say in half that those objects that don't meet the conditions of this law won't be destroyed, people don't really believe it until the end because they've had negative experiences, and that other half of the citizens who have managed to get some permits, or by the circumstances had that happiness to live, they're lucky to live in legal objects. They feel like idiots, Mr. Ilic, when the law on legalisation is passed the 15th time, and when, in the light of the effects of the law, it is said that the state and legal treatment of those who have legally built and those who have illegally built will finally be equalized. They know there won't be a crash and of course it's impossible to tear down so many objects. You have another problem, Mr. Ilic, it's a classic problem in an economy called a free ride problem. So not all of the objects that this law speaks of, the objects in which one man or one family lives, are also objects that are divided into some units. People in such facilities are in different legal situations because it is not possible to tear down the apartment on the third and fifth floors and save the rest because legalisation procedures have been conducted for them. None of these questions are answered by this law. We spent the whole day in a debate yesterday who told who, who did what, with each other's discussions on whether this country has the budget to participate in some of the international loans it receives for infrastructure. No, Mr. Ilic, they won't have them, and it's not a question of whether someone wrote a number in the Budget Act or not. And if he'd written the number, there wouldn't have been any money. The deficit is 260m euros in August, the deficit by the end of the year will be nearly two billion. You have a downfall in investment, especially in capital investments that is almost 20%, and then there will be no army or carpenters and you will not have new generations of them, since this country is not even able to conduct a small graduation and enrollment in high school in a normal way. Until some of this is resolved by this country, until every time the debate over who has allowed or tolerated more illegal objects has stopped, nothing will change. You'll have a million and 500 thousand illegal objects next time. This is where state authorities and state services hate each other, bribe each other, in one part of the cases because they're from different parties, and in others simply because they don't know what to do with themselves. Every bureaucracy in the world is constantly making up jobs for itself, this one will do so, and we will see who you will order from public enterprises to include electricity, water or anything else, if there is an orderly request for legalisation, none of this will happen, Mr. Ilic. Thank you for this time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23424	The word has a National MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, in the debate so far, we have heard presentations and suggestions from colleagues who support this law. We have also heard suggestions from those colleagues who do not support this law, but have tried to be constructive, but we have also heard the statements of colleagues who criticise this law more than necessary, in my opinion, but I believe that both the only and the third are in this room and we all agree together that the problem of illegally built objects that are in Serbia a decade problem should be solved. I believe that this government and the resolution ministry at the beginning of their second year are very constructive and in one comprehensive way, taking into account all the shortcomings of previous laws, they see this problem, fully convinced that if the MPs in this House support this law and this great problem of illegally built objects. It is doubtless that so far we have had a problem with property records of objects in Serbia, regardless of how modernised the catastrian services in Serbia are, and therefore the direct consequence and the fact that there is enormous legal uncertainty in the area of real estate transport, as well as the disproportionately small market value of a large number of illegalized buildings. I see this law as an important step that will establish legal certainty in the transport of immovable property, increase the market value of objects that will be subject to legalisation, and allow owners of legalised facilities to address business banks with uncomparably higher chances, to get the desired credit for, for example, further investment in the facility or in some private investment business. Although this was done yesterday by counterpart Petar Petrovic, I would like to emphasise another very important fact, that the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism has made a special effort to eliminate the legal gap resulting from the Constitutional Court's decision to eliminate the provisions of Articles 185 to 200 as soon as possible. The law on planning and construction, which concerned legalisation of the facility, is being put out of force. Also, I think it's Article 3. The proposal for this law is a precisely defined situation in which a building permit cannot be issued for specific buildings without a building permit. We heard you say yesterday that you were very honest about the problems you faced in your mandate for the past year, with the fact that there were many raised objects without a building permit, and there was no law that could have made that area very clear. Also, fellow MPs pointed out yesterday that red tape in construction is a major problem and that it must be eradicated. I don't think there are any citizens of Serbia, any colleagues in this hall who think it's a big problem, but I also honestly believe that this debate is the last debate to say that 279 papers are needed for the issue of any construction permit, or that Serbia will, after the adoption of this law, especially after the adoption of the Construction Planning Law, be in 179th place in the world after obtaining permits. That this law on legalisation reduces this necessary paperwork is referred to in Article 6 and 7 which provides for the competent authority to grant a single solution to both the building and the use of the permit. For me, it is also a very important solution in Article 7 of Title 3 which will also transfer the obligation to the owners of special physical parts of a higher residential building, whose owners will at the same time be able to reconcile this obligation in a concession manner. I would like to highlight a few more very important provisions that this law regulates. This is Article 20(1), which obliges those who wish to legalise the building, to provide, as evidence of resolved property-legislative relations, a contract concluded in accordance with the provisions of the laws governing the maintenance of a residential building, which will certainly contribute to large legal certainty and clean accounts in the case of potentially uncleared relations between the owners of dwellings in residential buildings. It's also very important the criminal provisions you've provided for in this law. I'd single out Article 36(1) where it's supposed to be both a fine and a prison sentence for a responsible person in the competent authority of the administration if he doesn't work within the prescribed time limits. It is very important, in my opinion, and this transitional provision in Article 39 does not provide for the obligation to submit a new application for legalisation, which is certainly in the interest of the owner of illegal objects, which have already been applied and, in conclusion, on 11 March 2010. I expect that in the debate in particular, you will also accept a number of amendments that will improve this law and allow this decade-long problem to be solved and 1,300,000 illegal objects to be resolved within a shorter period of time. Also, for me, it is a very important fact that prevails in this home, and your opinion with a number of objects that are in the so-called. The vacuum. I think it's important, and here I would agree with my colleague Zelenovic, to tell us what the number of objects is. It is very important that both the assistant ministers of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism, who came to parliament on the committees, said 90% of the sublegislative acts are already ready. So, because of all the things I said, New Serbia's MPs will support this law in voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23426	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23427	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, in December of last year you said that within six months you would come here to the Assembly to discuss all together the draft laws on planning and construction. It's been nine months since. We still don't have that law on planning and construction in the congregation procedure. Instead of that law, we are today discussing a new law, a law on legalisation, which applies only to a part of the previous law that the Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional. I must say that the name of that law is not adequate. For what? Because it implies that it is a regular legalisation process, and it is in fact a subsequent process of resolving the legal issue of objects that have already been built, and they do not have the use, i.e. a building permit. If I were to speak exclusively as a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam, then I could challenge most of these members, but I won't do it for a simple reason, because I know how much lawless construction today is a huge problem in the state and how necessary it is to solve it, under certain conditions, under certain regimes of legally recognised relations, with all the risks it carries with it. I've been legalizing objects in this country for decades now. Of all the attempts to do something about it, we have only one known fact today, which is that 1,300,000 objects are now illegal, that 720,000 demands have been filed and that something about 15% of the demands has been resolved. However, it is a complete absurd that since 1995, when the first Law on Legalisation was passed, we have a lot of paper, a lot of regulations, a lot of all new laws that are more liberal than the previous ones, which are more favourable for applicants to the previous law, but the matter is even worse in that the number of requirements being resolved is getting smaller and smaller. Here, I'll just go back a little bit. Since 2003, 368,000 demands have been filed, if I'm not mistaken. Only 5% of it was solved. In 2006, when we had amendments to the Law on Planning and Construction, when the deadline for submission of applications was extended, when legalisation was drastically cheap, when the scope of the technical documentation was also reduced, of 446.500 requirements were resolved only 3%. According to the 2009 law, 14.3% of requirements were resolved, although the law envisioned even a 99 per cent discount for objects up to 100 square meters. Of course, when all these indicators are analysed, then we should not be concerned about the fact that today we are in 179th place of 183th country according to the World Bank study on the speed of obtaining building permits. I really think it's out of my mind that the process of obtaining a building permit in the country takes 279 days and that it provides for 19 procedures. I think you've talked a lot about it in the past, too, that you've said that it's necessary to simplify this procedure, that the building permit is obtained in one day on the counter, but I don't think anything on that plan has been done to date. We'll see what you suggested in the new planning and construction law. Of course, it is obvious that this issue that I'm talking about now opens up an indirect and other issue, which is a much bigger problem in the country, which is the necessity of reforming the state administration. We don't have a professional today, we don't have an efficient state administration. We today, unfortunately, have much more administration, much more bureaucratic than we have knowledge and knowledge in this area is always lacking. It seems to me that this law, which we are discussing today, will further slow down the process, so to speak, the legalization of subsequently built illegal objects. For what? Because he is even more burdened by those who want to make demands, by additional documentation. And not only is it a paperwork problem, but it is also a problem that involves certain financial expenditure. So the documentation that is now required under this law, under this bill, means that someone else will have to pay for it. That, of course, is what I'm saying not only when it comes to the project of a executed object, but also when it comes to the fee itself, which we already know, it won't be cheap at all. Mr. President, please allow me to speak in peace, to concentrate on a law that is on the agenda and, as far as possible, to appease the MPs who are obviously not in the National Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23428	The minister listens very carefully to you. You go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23429	You didn't do what I asked of you. Allow me to speak in the congregation and use your...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23430	You are fully able to speak in the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23431	Calm the MPs down.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23432	You can hardly hear anything in the O.R.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23433	Those costs of drawing up the technical documentation, which I was just talking about, will be extremely expensive. For example, the project of a self-executed object will cost as much as the main project. Let's say, with certain experts from this area that I consulted with, they told me that he would most likely cost between 10 and 12 euros per square, and if we add all of this to the compensation for the construction land, which is now determined by the municipalities, to be unpredictable in this sense, because we don't know how many municipalities in certain areas will set the price, and we know that in certain areas in Belgrade it can reach, say, 250 euros per square metre, then it's clear that this project will not be overly financially favourable, not to say cost-effective. To be perfectly clear, I am standing entirely at the point of view of the Constitutional Court's decision. I think it is deeply correct because it is not correct for some who have built a law-bending law to be in a more favourable position than those who have respected the legal procedure, compared to those who paid for all the benefits before they started building. I have to be clear, too, and when I say this, I asked and I asked, simply as someone who studies the laws doing his job, and I thought that in that sense the Constitutional Court's decision would be fully respected through this bill, of course, that's not the case. But no matter what, I don't think this law is going to have too much effect. Because all those who have built illegally to have a settled housing issue, they will continue to stay in those facilities, will have no intention of alienating them, will be entered into the building of the immovableity and will think that the problem is solved in that way. But it will not be resolved, because we all know well that the issue of solving illegal settlements will not be resolved by enrolling in an immobility cadastre. Furthermore, this law, regardless of what I have to say, is somewhat more just than that part of the legalization that applied to the Law on Planning and Construction, it is nevertheless quite inaccurate and quite inconclusive. Here, let's say, I'll give you just on the occasion, going through some provisions of the law, thinking about it, and of course we'll discuss it a lot more in the discussion in particular. For example, Article 3 in point 5 doesn't know who decides if the parameters are breached. Is this the Department of Legalization, or is it the Department of Urban Affairs and Construction? Then it is also not clear, in Article 13, paragraph 14, does the installation block scheme mean that the main installation project should not be done? Those are, say, the answers they would require and we should hear them before they come to life. Also, in Article 13, it's not clear what's going on with the construction statistic? Who's going to guarantee she's safe? Furthermore, in Article 21, you shall provide for a period of one year from the date of entry into force of this law, as a period within which documentation should be completed. I'm asking you a very logical question, if that deadline for supplementing the documents is one year from the date of entry into force of this law, what will happen to those applicants who receive notice on the 15th day before that deadline that it is necessary to complete their documentation? They will find themselves in a situation that physically will not be able to submit additional documentation. That is why I think it is necessary that, when considering the amendments, primarily on this article, you adopt the amendment that the DSS has submitted because it corrects the cohesion that clearly exists in the law. Of course, one of the big problems will be that there will be quite an unequal amount of compensation for the construction land, for that fee will now be determined by the municipalities. All the burden of legalisation, or all the burden of the outcome of legalisation, will fall to the municipalities themselves because they will determine that compensation. I don't think there should be any illusion that the municipalities are going to give up belongings they could get right from legalization, because we know that their tills are already further damaged. In this year alone, their incomes have been reduced twice. The last time we discussed profit tax, let's just remember that since 2009 the source or the level of transfer funds has been reduced. It is still below the legal minimum today, and I really think it is necessary for all of us here to speak fully of the fact that there will be no understanding that the municipalities are widely interpreting that possibility of a reduction in compensation and that they themselves participate in it. In my opinion, one of the amazing members and I really believe that he should be deleted from this bill is contained in Article 34. It's about joining the infrastructure. I don't think it's good for the state itself to encourage citizens to behave illegally. As early as 2003, when I worked as an independent expert in the investigation, the investigative department of all courts in Belgrade was overcrowded with this kind of request to conduct an investigation, Colloquially speaking, I am talking about a crime that was then called illegal connection to the power grid, in a people known as the theft of electricity. So since 2003, we've had this act sanctioned as a felony. Today, this work is being undermined by ordinary theft from 2003 by a member of the Criminal Code. I don't think the way it is in the bill, we're not going to get what we want. I think it is necessary for it to be deleted because it is not in agreement with the Criminal Code or in accordance with the methods and principles of functioning of a rule of law. The state can't call on citizens to break that law. For the sake of information, Elektrodistribution had until three months ago received requests for connection to a power grid of those applicants, which only at that time provided them with a certified legalisation request. Since three months ago, they don't do it anymore, because they realized it implies they're doing a crime. Since three months ago, Elektrodistribution only connects the facilities to the power grid if they submit a building permit. Please keep in mind what I'm saying. I'm saying this primarily well-intentioned, sort of wanting to prevent what this law could produce. At the very end, regardless of what I really think this law is more stringent on the one that has been in force so far and in this sense it may be better somewhere, but it will not solve the problem because it will slow down the legalisation process and it will not be possible for a large number of people who believe it and write it for them to carry out legalisation, because it will be quite financially impossible for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23434	The word has the People's MP Stefan Zankov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23435	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, a substance that regulates the legalisation of objects, i.e. the subsequent issue of a building and use permit for a facility or parts of objects built or reconstructed without a building permit, was part of the Law on Planning and Construction that entered into force on 11 September 2009. Now this matter will be the subject of a special legal act that will allow for the implementation of the legalisation procedures for objects built by 11 September 2009, which have been applied for legalisation by 11 March 2010, so as to make it clear to the citizens what we are talking about. At the beginning of December of last year, the Constitutional Court declared unconstitutional certain provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction concerning Legalisation, so it was necessary to adopt a special Law on legalisation of objects governing the terms, procedures and manner of legalisation of buildings. The local self-government shall restore jurisdiction to determine the amount of compensation for the regulation of construction land on the basis of the criteria and the law, but shall also leave the possibility of reducing this fee if it comes to resolving a housing issue in a family household whose members do not have any other immovable property. Also, local self-government has the freedom to decide on how to pay this fee in terms of a period of payment that cannot be longer than 20 years, which can be considered another good solution in the bill. This is the fifth Law on Legalisation to be adopted by the Serbian Parliament since 1997. In doing so, each one was more liberal, with more favourable conditions than the previous one, but despite all the benefits, it did not give the expected effects, because it is very difficult to reconcile the interests and motives of the state, local self-government and, most importantly, citizens. On the one hand, there has always been some financial crisis for the largest number of citizens. On the other hand, the state has never insisted that before it and the laws, in terms of payment obligations, all be absolutely equal. On the third hand, problems of inadequate relations between slow and inefficient local administrations, poorer regulation, unreally high fees, corruption, etc. And now all this needs to be reconciled after 40, 50 years, with a minimum of justice and justice. You will agree that it acts as an impossible mission in Serbia, and we all need to be aware of that. That's why all attempts so far have been unsuccessful. That's why I think we can try to, conditionally speaking, reconcile, not correct, because it's impossible, by combining two laws -- this law on the legalisation of objects that we are discussing today, if parliament adopts it, and the Law on the registration of property rights on illegal objects, which is in force until 31 December 2014. In that sense, I fully understand and support the real thinking and attitudes of Minister Ilic. If you own the facility for 30 years, no one has ever complained, you're not going to sell the facility, but you're planning to continue to live, and you can't legalize, that I'm not going in for reasons right now, it's enough just to enter property rights into the immobilization pad, you become legally visible, you can function in relation to the state, of course, provided that the facility isn't located on the public surface according to urban plans. These cases are the most convincing. They belong to the poorest layers of citizens, and this solution is enough for everyone. However, legalisation is absolutely necessary for the facilities that are intended to be sold on the market. It has to be paid to the state, completed project documentation and, ultimately, such property will have a significantly higher market value so that its owners do not feel discriminated against people with illegal facilities. After all, the citizens' tax is equally paid for both legally and illegally built facilities, so the question of motivation for legalisation is raised, without which it cannot succeed whatever the applicable law is, and for any coercion the state is definitely late. This should be strictly applied to the facilities that were built after the deadline I already mentioned. Besides, it's a serious crime, and we can't wait many years, so we've got another almost unsolvable problem like today. As for the new deadlines for submitting the Law on Legalization, I am personally against it because this is not even 1970, 1980, but in 2013 and we ended it three years ago. A media campaign has been conducted and no one can say that he didn't know or didn't hear it, like many years ago, of course, if we want to be a serious state that wants to be part of a society of developed European countries. Otherwise, the question of the system of issuing building and use permits is either that everyone gets them after construction or that we stop them, that they build who, where and what they want, and that we continue through urban chaos. Then we don't need any laws in the field of planning and construction. In addition, you can see that in compliance with EU rules there are no relevant rules to ensure compliance, so I guess that tells us something. On the other hand, state and, above all, local administrations must, within the shortest time limits, meet the requirements concerning construction and thus delete the requirements concerning construction and thus erase the last excuses and alibis of those who do not comply with the legal requirements. It is something that will be part of the new law's solution, as the minister said, of planning and construction. We need to adopt the proposed Law on Legalisation of Objects, because we must not be without regulations that regulate that area because of anyone who wants to get to the building and use permits afterwards, and they have already submitted a request, which is particularly important for foreign investors. Finally, there was no public debate, I think, and today there are no serious objections to the lack of political influence on this text of the Bill on Legalisation of Objects. Those who need to implement this in practice, local self-government, are also, I think, satisfied, so there's no reason not to adopt it. I call on you to do so in the voting day, to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23436	Thank you. The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23437	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think you should perhaps explain to us a part of yesterday's state-of-the-art presentation in the government that you were talking about. I have to tell you that I was worried, and after yesterday's exposure, that I was even more concerned, and probably all those who listened to your exposure. You said workers run from these factories that work under the flag system, Jura, etc., that they will not work for that money and run from these companies. It's not a good message to investors on the side or workers. On the other hand, you said there was no money, that yesterday's fellow minister, now an MP, had not given you money for the building and that you were practically a minister without money. On the other hand, you said one thing that we knew, but we were still hoping it wasn't very true. You said that the ministers, ever since they heard about the reconstruction, have been out of business at all. They practically sabotaged the government's work. Tell me, Mr. Minister, which ministers are concerned, is it Minister Mrkonjic, Minister of Military Vukic, Obradovic or some third or fifth or seventh minister who left? Tell us who sabotaged government work for four or five months, so you couldn't accomplish your functions? On the other hand, we heard yesterday that the construction industry is collapse, that it practically doesn't exist. For this work you have, you can't find workers, that come from the Federation, Macedonia, that we don't have quality labour for the few jobs you have. As far as we know, your ministry is now running two or three investments, and that's not a quarter or a fifth of what was done in the previous years. At the beginning when it comes to the Law of Legalization, what is this? What is this, Mr. Ilic? In March of the month you came to the Assembly and said when you explained the Law on Special Conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit that this is free legalization. You told people about free legalization. You've led them astray. That's what you said in the campaign, and that's what you said after the campaign, thinking that maybe some elections will come soon. You told people about free legalisation, or legalisation for 100 euros. People have hoped and now comes to the legalisation procedure where the legalisation price is practically economic, because if you read Article 27, there are criteria that apply to those who are also moving towards building a building from zero, i.e. seeking a building permit in a legal way. I'm not entering a court of law whether illegal builders and those builders who are building with a building permit should be equalized. You have now practically introduced economic prices for legalisation, because the criteria for this degree of municipal equipment, the annual programme for planning construction land, urban zone, purpose and surface of the building. The next stance says units of local self-government will make programmes according to the previous stance. Where there's a downsizing, they can't move past these frames, which means they can't be cuts based on social status, whether a face worked as a refugee, as a evicted face, as a displaced face, or because it had a lot of money, and they didn't want to pay for a building permit. What does that mean? You've created one general mess with this law, you've delayed six more months for local self-government to adopt criteria. Those criteria, if they're past what you wrote here, will be unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court will bring down their solutions. You've led people astray that they've already legalized their facilities, and they haven't. These days you're talking about how it might not be necessary to legalize your facilities for those who won't traffic with those facilities. What kind of facilities can't be run? So they can't be inherited, they can't be sold, they can't be mortgaged. Mr. Ilic, you're playing with lives, the fates of people who live millions of illegally built objects, some of which, as my colleague said, were built out of necessity, and as you said, bringing stones on their backs for those facilities, and others were building them because they had a lot of money, so they didn't want to pay for municipal equipment. You're saying that all illegal objects submitted for legalization will be connected to the infrastructure. How is that possible? Do these facilities meet technical security conditions and do they still connect to the infrastructure of the house in which families, children, numerous families, or join facilities like you built illegal for commercial purposes? It's not the same, Mr. Ilic. You will allow people who have applied for legalisation to automatically join the infrastructure, to get electricity, water, gas, internet etc. You'll turn them off when? Never, as you allow, as your colleagues from the PUPS tell you yesterday, to build on Zlatibor today, to build illegally in the Kopalnik, to build in municipalities where you are in power illegally mass. What are you doing on that plan? It's a criminal act. You said that the other day a fellow mayor told you that he didn't even know that illegal construction was a crime. You forgot to tell us what the mayor's about. Is it Mayor Chačka, Krushevac or any other city? The mayor commits crimes if he joins infrastructure facilities and if he has done so so far. There's a lot of illogicality. Just now, a colleague from the SNS said there are no serious objections to this law. This isn't the law. This is a panfle. There are no serious legalization criteria here, which would be clear, which would also be fair and constitutional, but you create an obligation for local self-government to make acts that will be unconstitutional. If they make constitutional acts, it'll cost the citizens as if they're building the facility legally. This is nothing. This isn't the law. You left four or five months of those citizens in the vacuum. In the meantime, you were telling them the truth. Now you're delivering an act that's inconclusive. Minister Ilich, this is unconstitutional. Minister Ilic, this is also unserious of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23438	Mr. Ilic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23439	You know what, gentlemen, I think we're serious people and we're here to talk about serious issues, not to talk about anything wrong here, that everything is unconstitutional. Mr. Vesenovicu, your government has done everything and every member is unconstitutional, not this government. We're fixing it now. You saw it. We respect the Constitution. Everything you've done is unconstitutional. Do you understand? Do you understand me? What mayor worked without permission? Your mayor of Belgrade was doing all the running of a bridge without paperwork and he got the City of Belgrade criminal charges and nothing was taken by the court. You're still building without permission. Everything you do without permission, you do without a single piece of paper. Let what you're doing serve you honor. In your mandate, you started an investment of 300m euros without any paper on other people's land. You've received a criminal report that no one has activated because the court is yours, the prosecution. I expect that question to be resolved, and I'm going to run it these days. You did it, not us. There's nothing clear to you now. What don't you get? Take what you did in Vojvodina. Take Katz what you've been doing. Who did you ask? You're asking the minister. What does the Ministry have to do with local government and urbanism in one city? Whose inspections are they? Local self-government. How many criminal charges have you filed for illegal facilities? None. Why are you building illegally for years and asking me now why does he have this or that? Why stop when the facilities are not determined to be safe? Do you know how much it costs for a 200-square facility to examine the static stability of the facility? It costs 30,000 euros. Who can pay for that today? How much does it cost to question concrete stamps for an illegally built facility? Ten thousand euros for the whole facility. It would take 100,000 euros, and that's not how much the facility is worth. What did you build wild? The biggest wild construction was in the previous government. Well, five hundred thousand objects were built wildly. Five hundred thousand, sir. Who was that supposed to stop? Urbanism. Where's the biggest wild building? In Belgrade. Sixty per cent of the wild construction that has now been done in Belgrade. How long were you in power in Belgrade? What did you allow? You have thousands of criminal charges that are removed in the drawer. So you're asking me now, so you've passed three laws on legalization. None of you made it for anything. You ran the campaign "all is free", "all can do". I said it's free and 100 euros, enrollment in the immovableity cadastre. Sir, I never mentioned legalization. It's not legalization. It's a log-in to the immovableity cadastre. And I'm standing on it. Anyone who doesn't have money can sign in and use it for his own purposes. Whoever wants to put into traffic, let him work for the market, let him do his thing. Let's not talk about no investments. What do you want? Now 300,000 objects are allowed to connect water, sewerage. Come out you, and suggest that water and sewers be cut off everywhere, whoever is not legal. What about 1,300,000 families? It's true that we were looking, if they entered the legalization process, that they could join. We'd make chaos in Serbia. That mess didn't create me. Don't ask me. Ask your associates, your friends. Question -- how many legalized objects are there going to be? It depends on local authorities, urbanism, in a particular city. Gentlemen Members of the Parliament, all your parties have at least one mayor or one urbanism at a time. They're all responsible for not working. All allow wild construction by courting or by other means. I can't control the bathroom from here, which you've listed, or Zlatibor, or I know what you've listed there. Your mayors do it, not mine. This is a general thing. What are you going to say now to a citizen in Belgrade when he says you're at 100 ha... Did I call yesterday the vice president of your government who opened an illegal facility and despite my warning that there was no paper, but he was on TV, taking pictures, opening up, cutting tape. Instead of giving criminal charges to whoever did it there, the performer, and the legality is given by the vice president of the government who's going to open it. What am I going to do as a minister now? He says, I'm sorry, your vice president opened up. He told me yesterday I got a warrant from the Prime Minister to go open. Did he say yesterday? What's the problem now? What am I supposed to do now? These are your problems you need to solve. Better any law than no law. We don't have any laws now. We have to legalize. Come on, fix it. You've been writing amendments. We'll take whatever's good. Let's find an expert who knows how to make an ideal law. The people have no money, the people build what they get, where they get, and how they get there. That's Serbia's problem today. We're the state that received hundreds of thousands of refugees without a roof over its head. People get along, build, find opportunities to just sort of end up. I can't mention it here right now. It's ugly. I did an investigation there the other day. The data is the means, sir, in one of the municipalities where you were in power, I'm telling you now. Data is the means to build an object for one family, because it was destroyed. What do you think happened? They lived under nylon. You've seen that grandmother over there in the diary, she lived under the nylon. Her first son died, her husband died, he died recently, and the money was nowhere. That's why your director bought Audi A8, the chief of staff bought an apartment out of those funds, got everything in the skin, everything extra, everything was great. That was in Valjev, last term. The other day when I sent a team and ordered an emergency house to be made, they brought me a picture of my grave and my grandmother and my son and my husband. They lived under nylon. You have a picture, it's been on TV ten times. Don't tell me urbanism, water, municipalities and cities now. How are we gonna get him in line? So let's all try. This is where I appealed that if we were to be solid, we'd help to get in line as much as we could. It can't go fast. You know it, I know it. That depends on the people who work there. We can't say it's no good, there's no law, there's no good in this government. That's not true. Look at the previous government, see what it was like. You see, sir, you've been building buildings in the King since the earthquake. You were all in there. Take how you artificially distributed the fertilizer, now take the sport hall to the King, sir. Do you know what the tender was, the free contract, 640 million? Do you know how long it's been now? It'll go over a billion and 200 million, and it's not over. Again with criminal charges, again with investigations, again with everything. Wherever you've been doing the investigation, it can't be over in a year. Please enter order and be critical. Don't give me a list of the municipalities where I'm in power. Find me a problem that started there. Find a crime. Find one, sir. This is where I list 100 crimes. So, let's all pull ourselves together a little bit, then we'll all get better. No one's ideal. Don't think there are ideal people running certain institutions. Don't say that. You're always dark, you're always criticizing everything. You're an intellectual. We expect help from you, we expect you to pull this country up. Whenever you get dark, you say – every discussion you have is no good, this government is a miracle. Okay. I've criticized something in this government, and there's always criticism. I could criticize you for seven days. These people would fall apart here listening. No government is good. This one's trying to be better than the others. You say they're not ministers. They didn't sign it. It was a reconstruction. I agreed, this law was over three or four months ago. A month ago he was scheduled for parliament, there was a break, so he couldn't, etc. So it's true that this law was supposed to come early and it was true that it was over, but people were gone and there was no one to give that consent in certain ministries that it was agreed that the law could enter the procedure. Of course, I can't get a minister who didn't get on duty to sign something for me. He can't. That's what it's always been. Every time governments change, six months can't get a particular document. Three months, four months, that's always been, and when elections are. So don't just criticize, don't just get dark. Let's talk about the law. Come on, if something's wrong, tell me what's wrong. Let's fix it. Tell me what's wrong. No, nothing's wrong. Guys, if there's nothing wrong, we should all go home. You're all right. Only your ideas are good. I thank you and don't be angry. You're a young man, a nice man, a smart man. Smile a little. Smile a little, let's work together.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23440	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23441	I would smile, Mr. Ilic, if this government hadn't been the worst since my colleague Srdjan Milivojevic said the southern Slovenians came to these areas. There's nothing to boast about. This law is in itself such that it really doesn't deserve any debate. But since I have less time than you, I'll tell you, Mr. Ilich, that you've done a crime before, or you've confessed to a crime. You said you were investigating the last few days. (Velimir Ilic: His investigation. You're not a prosecutor, you're not an investigative judge, that you're investigating. You said you ruled that man. You ruled against the man you put in the King's prison and in the end it turned out he didn't commit any crime, that he paid even less from the register of the King's budget than he should have. You told Mr. Djelic yesterday that he attended the opening of an object that was built illegally. He attended the opening and you accused him of it, and you built an illegal building of 8,000 squares illegally. (Velimir Ilic): Where? They tried to find the press, but you wouldn't let them in. (Velimir Ilic): Where? ) On the other hand, when it comes to that bridge in Belgrade that you're talking about, you've made me laugh, too, that bridge is built by the money of the European Bank and no new tranche could be paid until the previous tranche is justified in a dinar. On the other hand, that bridge was given temporary permission. At the end of that deadline, they applied for permission to your ministry. (President: Time. ) However, you should have formed a commission, but you did not. You waited two months for a commission to be formed, after that commission had done nothing, and therefore that bridge did not receive a building permit in time. Because of your responsibility. How can you believe that when you said yesterday that the city had taken the land on which a man went on vacation and returned, a building was built? How is it possible in ten days to build a building?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23442	Thank you, Mr. Veselinovic. Replica, Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23443	The minister's having a really good time talking today. I wanted to get some facts out of the public, because you're constantly cheating on the public. Access to the bridge on Adi financed through the European Bank's loan for reconstruction and development. It is simply impossible for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to create such an illusion in implementing its procedure to finance buildings that do not have a building permit. Last year, on November 25th, the ministry received a request for the issue of a valid licence for the Bridge on Ada. Minister, you haven't issued a valid permit in almost a year. What about the general plan for the city of Belgrade? You are obstructing the adoption of a general plan because you want to show bad authority in Belgrade. Yesterday, I was contacted by 50 urbanists complaining about the work of your ministry because you do not issue a valid licence for the Ada Bridge and do not agree to a general plan for the city of Belgrade. Yesterday, you said a million illegal buildings were built in Serbia from 2003 to 2009. Who was the building minister then? Who ran capital investments and also had jurisdiction over these facilities? Where did you get 25,000 illegal objects in Chačka? Is that what the DS is for? In the end, I'm going to say one more time that you're committing a crime because you're covering up the perpetrator of a crime. I'm asking you to tell the public who took the bribe and who is the father of that local official or party leader who took the bribe? We want to know that for the public. Who's hiding those criminal charges in the drawers? It's all at your disposal now. You say yourself you're conducting investigations-- investigate everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23444	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23445	How to give a used bridge license to Ada when it's not finished? Which commission can give you that license? It was a commission coming out, but it's not over. You're due by December, you're not done. So that's why you can't get a used permit. Finish what you started. Belgrade's general urban plan is such a criminal act and there is a crime now, and I think a criminal charge has already been filed against the perpetrators. You know what you did there? For example, you gave a general urban plan in public debate, completed all procedures, brought to the Assembly and sent the minister to sign. But when you brought it to me, you changed all the papers and everything that was done was fake, illegal, upgraded, you smudged and you put it in to sign the minister. When I gave it all to be examined, the cemetery, the municipality of Voždovac, the municipality of Rakovica, and it was not at all in the public debate, the cemetery was not mentioned at all. You destroyed people who built a business space, buildings, and now you've put a cemetery in front of them. Thousands of signatures were collected and brought in to keep it from being signed. I brought you back to correct everything by what was in the public debate, or this new one to return to public debate. Now I've made you do it, so I'll only sign it for you. Do you understand now? You made a fake file, which is why I didn't want to sign it. You've inserted 6,000 objects "to the bad", which has not been mentioned anywhere. Look and come and see the papers. I don't know how many acres, I think it's 23 acres of cemetery, you put people between buildings, and you ran it like green areas when people built bars, houses and apartments, to sell bars. Now, when you did all that, you threw them a cemetery. Ask in Rakovica how people reacted to it, ask Vozdovac how many signatures have come to the Ministry not to sign it. That's why I didn't sign it. Sir, what you're saying is that there are eight grand without permission, that's not true. The permit exists in a minute, but the permits don't look at B 92, but the Republic Inspector, who came, looked at all the permits and saw that everything was fine. Can't the B-92 reporter you send over to look at the paperwork, it can't go anywhere. So it's not true he doesn't have a license. There are all the papers, you can see them whenever you want, but the authorities are watching it, not your reporters. Should the journalist watch the static stability of the facility? That can't go anywhere. So it has to be done in accordance with the law. Don't be angry, you're my pets. I love you when I come to parliament. Trust me. You're an interesting guy to me, and I love listening to your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23446	National MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23447	Dear President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the adoption of the Law on Legalisation of Objects is one of the important steps to build a legal state. Data on nearly 1.5 million non-legislative buildings have been built without the approval of the competent authorities, show also long-term practice and inadequate attitude of citizens towards state authorities, on the one hand, but also an inefficient system of our country to pre-war the violation of the law in the area of construction and create conditions for a planned and efficient solution to the needs of citizens. On several occasions, Mr. Secretary also spoke about this. It is certain that there was no political will to regulate this area and create real conditions for the respect of the law. Today, we are discussing a very important bill that should end the process of legalising illegally built buildings in the Republic of Serbia. I remember a personal example, an example of a problem that the Starship Community had while I was briefly president of the Starship Community. I've been trying every way I can to solve this problem of Stargazer citizens, and all my doors have been closed. At the time, I belonged to the opposition party and had a major obstruction of the ruling furniture. Somehow, I was able to reach the cabinet of then Minister Ilic. I can't say it took five minutes, not even five minutes to help solve this problem. That's why I believe the minister has the will today, and he can and wants to help solve all these problems. The problem of legalisation is not only the problem of one ministry, of one government, of one set of furniture, or of a ruling set. That's the problem with all of us. I just talked to one of my colleagues from the opposition parties and said, "Let's get people to sit down and find a common model of how to meet and solve the problem of so many objects." It's not ten houses, it's not 100 houses, it's 100 objects, it's hundreds of thousands. The law is adopted with the intention to resolve the status of a limited number of cases, i.e. it gives the right to legalise its facilities only those citizens, i.e. investors who applied for legalisation by 11 March 2010, and for buildings built without a building permit built by 11 September 2009. So it's about 700,000 cases that were processed by 11 March 2010. Seven hundred thousand objects! Guys, it's a huge city. Despite a number of requests from the field to extend this right to the deadline when this bill is adopted and entered into force, the promoter estimated that there is no justification for extending the deadline because it is obvious that the discounts in previously passed laws in this area encourage citizens and investors to continue breaking the law and to build on without the approval of the competent authority. We must once stop at the end of illegal construction. As is said here on several occasions, the objects that were built after that deadline are most likely not likely to collapse, but we need to find a way to legalize these objects and prevent future illegal construction. Now I would refer to the very text of the law. I think it's Article 1. The draft law should establish that it applies to buildings built by 11 September 2009 without a building permit, since the bill regulates the conditions, procedure and legalisation of only these facilities, provided that a request for subsequent issue of a building permit, or a valid permit, was submitted by 11 March 2010. In Article 21. The bill should be followed by the word “complement” and the words “in the appropriate time and for a maximum period of six months” and by a point, and a further text should be deleted as unnecessary because it is contrary to Article 22(1). Article 24(3) provides that a building and use permit may be issued by one solution, although this is already provided for in Articles 6 and 7. The bill, so that attitude should be deleted. Article 31 provides that local self-governments are required to bring into force, within six months of the date of entry into force of the draft law, acts on criteria for determining the level of compensation for the regulation of construction land, conditions under which the right to reduce compensation can be achieved, as well as the conditions and manner of payment and compensation. I suggest that in the third row, in this article, the words "height of compensation" should be added: "for the planning of building land" and the six-month period will be replaced by three months. It is proposed to cut deadlines because this long deadline will significantly delay obtaining a construction permit in the event of a non-refunding act for the use of construction land by local self-government. The legislator, by adopting the Law on special conditions of registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit, provided in Article 13, that the Authority of the Administration was competent to legalise illegally built objects required to deliver within 90 days of the date of entry into force of that law and entered into force on 16 March 2013, all legalisation requirements submitted in accordance with the Law on Planning and Construction until 11 March 2010, with documentation on the authority responsible for the registration of property rights. This means that all legalisation requirements are in the cadastre bodies, so there is a big problem with returning these items to the authorities responsible for issuing a building permit under this bill on legalisation. Given that a number of these 700,000 cases will not be adopted for legalisation, an interested investor may not acquire the right to legalisation or the right to enroll property on an illegally built facility. After returning the case to the Authority responsible for legalisation and pending the legalisation procedure, it may expire the period of validity of the Law on special terms of registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit and shall be valid until 31 December 2014. Article 32 and Article 33. The bill provides for a procedure for the destruction of non-legislative objects. In view of the fact that it is still going on within which investors, which has 1,300,000, have the right to enter property rights under the Law on Special Conditions of Property on buildings built without a building permit, it is until 16 March 2014, and also for the purpose of this law to subscribe illegally built objects under the legal system of records, the question arises whether the destruction of buildings built by 11 September 2009, which are entered in the cadastre or whether they will be entered by 16 March 2014, or 31 December 2014, which are not legalised, whether they will collapse and whether they will be obliged to exclude the municipal infrastructure under Article 34. A bill of law? I therefore propose that this issue be defined in the transitional provisions of the bill and finds that no solution will be made to the destruction of the listed objects. I hope that we will have enough strength and wisdom to see realistically the problems of legalisation and that in the coming period we will be able to solve this problem that is evident in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23448	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23449	Dear President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my distinguished colleague, Suzanne Spasojevic, delivered yesterday the position of the SPS parliamentary group on the draft law on legalisation, which is on the agenda, very clearly, precisely and without being able to interpret it in different ways. With the support of the proposed law on legalisation, our colleague, our authorised representative, respecting your wishes, Mr. Minister, and ours, that this law, of course, in the narrow frameworks that the Constitution has given, has made it more applicable and better, said that they have submitted amendments with the aim of supporting this law and in order to contribute, in particular, to the technical and procedural nature of some things, to making it even better. I invite you, Mr. Minister, given that you have done so yourself in the past months, that you look at everything well and that you do not mind who submitted the amendment, but whether it is good and whether it contributes. Ugly is the easiest. Irregular construction in Serbia is a major state problem. Immaculate construction in Serbia became a rule, became a way, became a kind of culture. Many have tried to solve this since 1997, so in 2003, even criminal sanctions have been imposed for lawless builders. In 2009, we have to admit, the expressed desire to legalise lawless objects in the simplest way, to make it mass, to be fair, which we as SPS particularly insist on, to be armed and to lead to the ultimate goal, and the ultimate goal is to prevent illegal construction. So all these attempts that were made to show us that after the law was passed in 2003, then in 2009, when it was brought new, it was a million. At least that's what the minister said, and now, after that law, which the Constitutional Court annulled and annulled 1,300,000 illegally built. So, huge, big problem state problem. I think we should say here next, that it's not the individual himself who took part in the illegal construction. What I'm trying to say is that the system allowed him to do something like that or not to make him say something like that. If we already have 1,300,000 illegally built buildings, it will not be that all these citizens, with their families and friends who helped them build a home for themselves, are criminals. We should see if the system forced them to break the law. Why am I saying this? Because this issue has to be resolved systematically. Listing illegal objects is one thing, allowing legalization is another, but most important how to prevent illegal construction. How to get in the way of this once, and we think that preventing illegal construction is the best way to prevent it by making it possible systemically, the state will make it possible and I very much expect you, Mr. Minister, through the announced bill on building planning, to create these conditions, to make the citizen simpler, easier, cheaper, safer, to build with permission than to legalize an illegal facility. Then when it's easier for him to build with permission, safer, cheaper, he won't need to make it without permission. If that's what's in mind, I'd like to say that we support you in advance, we support the government, to come to this Law on Planning and Construction that will simplify, to say the simplest, which can simplify the procedure of obtaining building permits that will, in the easiest, most efficient way, allow citizens to get to it. Then illegal construction will become an anomaly in Serbia, not a rule, and it will be the best way to prevent further illegal construction. I want to support you in advance that even in your once-exposure before work of the year when you said I invite everyone to participate and to say what they think we're going to get the best Construction Planning Act, that Serbia's planned, every piece of its territory, we cover, we build to make it stimulating, we simplify the obtaining of permits, and in this way we say illegal construction is a disgrace, not a rule. We will support you and ask you to continue in this sense, that the law applies in a much longer period, and not as it has already become a rule that the law applies as long as one government goes, so when another comes then other laws, etc. This will also allow the competitiveness of the economic environment, which will also allow foreign investors to come to invest, allow citizens to get permission more easily, but not only foreign but also domestic. It doesn't seem to pay much attention to that. I'll give you an example, I don't know if it's true, it's simple for the public to know. I have heard that there is interest in the "BK Group" to complete the 30-year construction, 30 years of construction, under very favourable conditions. There is Mr. Karic, is that true, if it is true why they do not, if it is not true, say publicly that it is not true and that there is something else behind it. So the bottom line is to simplify how to get a permit, in one place, cheaper, simpler, it's going to be a way to prevent illegal construction. When it comes to this particular law that is before us, I want to highlight three things. We will uphold the law. The amendments submitted aim to help you even more in your desire to legalize these facilities, but we must tell the citizens of Serbia that the characteristics of this law are next. Since the government, at least this one isn't hiding anything so far, is it not false things, but the truth, is this going to slow down? It will. Will he agree to the procedure? It will. Is he gonna pick it up? It will. But it opens up the possibility of bringing it into the country's legal system. What was also the order of the Constitutional Court, which is that the procedure will be identical to the procedure of issuing regular permits. The second feature is that what the Constitutional Court has asked the local self-government units to do is, on the basis of these criteria, to set the criteria for the compensation they will charge when legalising illegal objects. Here are two things I want to support when it comes to compensation. So, okay, the state can't prescribe it, it's the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit, but here it says that the local self-government unit can prescribe a reduction in the compensation of building land for the owner of an illegally built family residential building or apartment in a residential or residential business building, etc. I want to be a member of the SPS, or the MPs' club, to strongly support it. It's not the same if someone was building a roof over his head to have a place to live because he didn't have other options to get from the state or if someone was building a market facility, for profit. We will always stand up for those who have incentives and more favourable conditions that have made a roof over their heads. The second thing I want to point out here, also as a positive, is that it is possible to reduce the compensation and those environments where citizens themselves have done the construction land equipment. We have a lot of places in Serbia where people self-sufficiently made water, sewerage, road and everything else, and it is fair and fair to be recognized in this way. So this is what I'm saying for reasons why legalization, no matter what is limited this time, still has to be fair. In the end, we will still have to ask, Mr. Minister, for an answer both as a state and as a government – what about illegal construction? You have also offered a solution to allow the legalization of those objects that are under the law where people applied by 2010, which is about 700 thousand. But we have three categories of illegal objects today, time-sighted. They're the ones that were made by 2009, so they filed a request. Others were made by 2009 and did not apply for some reason. It's the third one that's been built since 2009. Here I think there's still room for these laws to consider that question. For example, is there a possibility that those who for various reasons did not apply until 2010, and the facility was built before 2009, to also enter the legalisation process, to allow them such a thing? The question remains for the answer that must be sought, we must all ask if we want Serbia to be arranged, legal, and that is what to do if indeed 300,000 were made after 2009? Tell me, who's going to take it down? I understand that the object that began to be created is being torn down. I'm asking, why wasn't he knocked down when he started to make, not when it was made? Is there any other way to punish it, tax it I don't know what way and once in the state, let this government be the one to say - we want to put an end to it and it's gone. That's all I had. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23450	Mr. Karic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23451	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleague, dear fellow Members, this is more than one confirmation, than the replica of my dear colleague, that the "Prokop" is already, as you all know, 30 years old, or better to say that the "Prokop" has been talking about for about 30 years. Something's been done. I can tell you here in front of all of you, normally and in front of our viewers, that there is a great desire of the BK Group and their Russian investors who are willing to give a 30-year loan with 1% interest to finally finish the Prokop, to move the station, to build this big business centre that is at 80 hectares, that Serbia and Belgrade really are light among all other major metropolis. I think he's always hoping, looking, expecting and perhaps accepting some sometimes unfavourable conditions, borrowing abroad, and at any cost that's what foreign companies should do, I don't think that's necessary. It is clear to you, Mr. Minister, when a foreign bank lends credit, or a foreign financial organization, that it is a public tender, that there are the necessary guarantees of our banks that are not able to monitor our companies, because our companies have been destroyed for years and do not have these necessary balances in order to be able to respond to the tender. More or less, it comes to the fact that the tender is practically right for those already known in advance to get the job. There is a desire and possibility for the BK group to do so with Serbian builders. I ask you, as soon as you find the time, to discuss and make official offers, to bring people in and finally finish the Prokop in the term of office of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23452	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23453	Dear Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must ask you from the ruling majority to tell me who you address when you speak of this law? Do you address millions of Serbian citizens who have built their buildings, houses and apartments in accordance with the law, respecting the legal procedure and form and what the legislator has prescribed, or do you address all those who have made palaces, apartments and castles, in violation of the law, by mocking those who respect that law? In doing so, I don't mean those tens of thousands of unfortunate people who, because of the policy of Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovica, traded their hearths for fireplaces, while promoters and politicians with all their rusty spoons moved into two-pour apartments. To be specific, I mean the character and the misdemeanor of Alexander Wolfich. If we talk about these unhappy people who have experienced the tragic fate of refugees, then of course we are in favour of getting rid of their status and that we will always have a favored attitude towards people who have experienced such an accident because of such a policy. But if we're talking about people who have decided on extreme wealth not only to cash it, but to build magnificent buildings at a time that's been stormy for all of us, and their time, breaking the law to build palaces and palaces on Santa and other exclusive locations, then I have to ask you, those who built illegal castles built monuments to corruption in this country, and called themselves capable people, I have to ask you what country the man who broke the law on construction, who built an illegal building on corruption and crime, calls himself a capable man? It's just what we call a capable man. Everywhere in the world, it's a thief who broke the law, made fun of the law, mocked all those citizens of this country who respected him, with pain made their houses, apartments, and facilities. Of course, it is only with us that these, from such apartments, teach us lectures on the fight against corruption, on honesty, on their immeasurable contribution to the country's progress. Everywhere in the world, at least they get their heads down and don't do politics. Of course, if you think this law will fix the chaos that has existed for decades in this country, I have to ask you do you think this law will solve it? I believe in the good intentions of Mr. Ilic and the people of the ministry, that this is indeed to be brought in. No one has a bad intention when a law like this is passed. We've passed this law with the intention of taking care of as many areas as we can. The state of urbanism, the appearance of our cities, and especially the cemetery, the best mirror and paradigm of our wandering in the process of modernization. Go to any cemetery in Serbia that was created at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries, the city cemetery. You'll see a mess in those parcels when people are buried as who and where he's arrived, and you'll only go to the squares, except for the city of the King, where they've invited some smart man and he's arranged the city of the King and he's made some kind of urban appearance. Our bastards have been experimenting with the liberation of the Turks, after the release of Austro-Hungarians and Germans, and after the release of the Germans in World War II, I'm not talking about Partizan experiments. You know, the saddest thing is when I hear it's our urban heritage from the Turkish rule of the Ottoman Empire. You know, then our kids go on a field trip to Istanbul or Ankara, so I don't speak when they go to Antalya and they come back and say, "What unsettled, what Turkish, what Ottoman heritage?" You know, Grandpa told me a long time ago -- son, you know what kind of force Turkey would have been if it hadn't spent five centuries here? When it comes to our passing on the way of modernising this country, I must, I cannot really not mention one ordinary mayor of Belgrade, whom you have, I hear the "Gilas" throw, and I am glad that you have an association with the ordinary mayor of Belgrade - Gilas, but I am talking about another mayor, I am talking about 1884, about Vladan Djordjevic. On August 1, 1884, this great man made a report on the state of city affairs. He formed a commission to tour European metropolises and moved on to work on Belgrade's arrangement. Look out, in 1884, there weren't many architects in Belgrade, there was just the end of the Serbian-Turkish war, we had just had the reach of the Berlin Congress, the man called all the mental people, two months traveled to the largest European capitals, came back, made a plan to arrange the city of Belgrade, and as soon as he came to Belgrade, it came in August of the month, it was replaced by the ruling majority in the then kingdom, because it was not a measure of the ruling majority that ruled the country. Every similarity and mention is intended for today's moment, but when I talk a little bit about the law, it's very dangerous for me when the interpretation of the law, especially you from the Serbian Progressive Party, begins with the claim that we don't have experts in any area. I'm worried right now that the stamp of the graduation machine is broken. Well, I guess you've got more, you don't only have one, because as soon as the stamp of the machine breaks down, that's at least a dozen less jobs for those people who work three shifts to stamp. The subject is the law on legalisation, and within the legalization law, we heard that we had paused and waited for this law for a month because ministers had been replaced and as soon as they found out they had been replaced, they went on vacation. I'm sure it's about Mr. Knezevic and Alexander Wolfich, because we haven't heard who they are. Here, a little bit on the subject. You know, there's no easy and easy legalization. Do you know what it looked like in Vojvodina? A lucky clerk, two cops from house to house -- you want to legalize, you want to go to jail, you want to crash? Everyone's legalized. I'm not for those and those examples of legalization. It's much better the way it works in cities where the Democratic Party is in power, like Paracino. You have the city administration where you come and in one place you can arrange everything on legalisation and make a taxi and tax contract and everything that follows to the state of Serbia, but now some law is passed, so we have no answer that this new law will apply to those requirements that had such city administrations, the up-to-date city administrations and how this will reflect the fate of these cities. When we talk in general about the legalisation and modernisation of Serbia, you from the ruling majority are going round and round. This vicious circle slowly becomes a noose around the neck, but not yours, but the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. These circles are rapidly turning into a noose, which is getting tighter every day. Citizens can't handle that pressure. Now, since I am going to talk about these laws and amendments when the debate is in principle, since we have handed over some very useful amendments and I am absolutely confident that Mr. Ilic will listen to our reasons, I have only to finish reading to you what was said 25 years after the shift of one of the best mayors of Vladan Djordjevic. What does the new mayor say in 1909? "Today I find myself unsettled, unaltered, unscathed with modern kaldrum, a city full of mud and dust, unregulated, unsavoured, unsupervised, unsupervised. One word, debilitated in everything a metropolis needs, scarce in all the features that one city places in a modern city." I'm afraid your legalization based on the use of city authorities with republican authority and such a quote will end at the end of your term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23454	National MP Vuceta Toskovic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23455	Mr. Chairman, you've injured Rule 107. You let the previous speaker speak beyond the agenda and mention Alexander Vukic and some rusty spoon. I don't know what the context of his story is. If that's the case, then I have the right to say something about his president and today's president, former and present-day president, that they have ruined this country to such an extent that we cannot in any way and the law fix the situation in this country, regardless...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23456	Please don't break the Rules of Procedure now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23457	When you warn me, warn the previous speaker to talk about the agenda point. I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You should have warned the previous speaker not to leave the agenda and to talk about what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23458	I think the idea of hurting the Rules of Procedure is really getting to know each and every one of us. Personally, I don't think the previous speaker hurt the Rules of Procedure. He did stand down, but that's his style of expression, giving an example. So, I don't think he's hurt. They're sticking to the subject. He did make some trips, but that's allowed in this parliamentary debate. You can make a statement that you want us to decide on that in the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23459	I do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23460	In the voting day, we'll decide whether there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure or not. National MP Marko Atlagic wants to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23461	Mr. Chairman, I'm calling for article 106. I'll read the first paragraph. "The speaker can only talk about the item of the agenda on which the search is conducted. “ So I have to say that you had to warn the previous speaker because it wasn’t the state of the agenda. I'll explain why. It's on the agenda, Mr. Chairman, legalization, and the previous speaker spoke about the Karlovac-Carlobag-Virovica railroad. He was talking about Alexander Wolf. He mentioned the Berlin Congress in 1878. (Sendants of the DS are getting out of place. ) Will you, please, allow me to state what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23462	I ask the People's Messengers to speak. He has every right to explain himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23463	The staging degree, if you've heard, mentioned it. In the next paper, please warn the MP to stick to the agenda. We of the SNS proudly pronounce the name of our president. I'm sorry they can't name their president. I have no intention of defending Alexander Wolfich, he's the one who works, gentlemen, his defenses. (The People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic is getting out of place. ) This throw is a sign of a culture of civilization and democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23464	Please don't throw it away. You know, according to the Rules of Procedure, it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please don't throw it away.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23465	Mr. Chairman, you were obliged to give a warning after he threw it away. He doesn't do it once, he does it all the time. I'm not against favoring the opposition, I'm really up for it, but not so much that it goes beyond measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23466	I'm obliged, too, to give an explanation. I think there's a similar explanation for the previous advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think we need to allow freedom of expression in terms of reasoning. Now it's every single person's business. What someone makes a trip, it's a problem that's hard to regulate and react to every single thing. Please don't suggest the chairman of what he needs to do. You have the right to injure the Rules of Procedure, which I shall say, that gives me the right to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't affect my decision in that sense. Do you think it's time in the voting day that we make a statement about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23467	No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23468	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23469	Thank you. Now I have the impression that if a stranger listened to the previous speaker's speech without having any insight into Serbia's policy in the past ten years, he thought it was a wonderful exposure. However, if someone explained to him who they were and what they were doing in the previous years, they would likely wonder what this man was talking about. The experts we mentioned yesterday were people who were sitting in municipalities and local self-government, which they were setting up. We didn't mention experts or that we didn't have them, but we mentioned experts who had implemented the laws they had passed for ten years and brought us into this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23470	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23471	I am sorry that the political memory of many of my colleagues begins from the moment they sat down in the chair of the government. I'm really glad there's a lot of pens that can write about the future, but there's not this rubber that can erase the past or our role in that past. Perhaps you, colleagues, as former DS member back in the day, forgot what Aleksandar Vukic or Tomislav Nikolic was doing, perhaps you forgot who were policy promoters Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovitica and how many people paid for that policy, and how many people came to Serbia as refugees and were now forced to do it here in ways that they had to do it, but I will give you advice to keep you longer in politics. You know, European integration means that this egocentrism of yours, that you are the best, the most beautiful, the wisest, and that you see yourself in the context of a small, poor and undeveloped country that is just so small, poor and undeveloped because of the persistent refusal of European integration policy and not only the rejection of European integration policy, but also the persecution of promoters of that policy, where in this persecution, you did not hesitate to cut some of the policyholders short for the mark that took them out of the average in Serbia, and they bounced behind that average in Serbia. So, when you're representing a new policy today, don't be ashamed of what you've done and what you've been doing, and that was the apriors of rejecting the European ideas and the system of values and the senseless persecution of the people who stood up for this system. At the same time, such a policy has resulted in chaos in this country, which among other sightings and chaos in urbanism. We didn't bring these people in from the DS as refugees with our politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23472	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Shane, on what basis?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23473	According to the Rules of Procedure, because you respected the chairman-in-Office, you violated the Rules of Procedure of the 107th Dignity of the Assembly by giving the word to the honourable gentleman without being personally mentioned and not being the head of the parliamentary group. So you gave him the opportunity to accuse someone who was carrying a banner of democracy in 2000 of something that had nothing to do with the person they were talking about. I apologize to the lady for taking my permission to say this, but if you can tell someone that he taught someone with a European idea, then I'm sure you have to admit that she did this to her colleague Katarina Rakic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23474	Sir, I gave the word to Mr. Milivojevic not as head of the Parliament Club, but as a result of his previous speaker, so you replicated. Please don't now. The word has been made by MP Vuceta Toskovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23475	I advertised Article 107 first, and now I'm advertising Article 106, where it's also said that the speaker has to talk about the agenda point, and the gentleman is still on the line talking about something he shouldn't talk about because it's not the agenda point. If it compares one of our pasts that we've destroyed some people, it's the result of some condition that he imagines is worse than it is today. Please, their reign for 12 years has ruined about two million people who can't live. It's more of a shame than she is, if they think it's our damage that's been around in the 1990s. Therefore, the greater genocide was made on their own people, than someone else was on another people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23476	I don't think there's been any damage to the Rules of Procedure. Please don't make any more commercials about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't make any sense. The word has a folk MP, Katarina Rakic. Replica, as an authorised representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23477	That's right. I wouldn't want to mention that I would simply not challenge something that is not necessary again, but I simply have an obligation to answer and say that I accept advice and seek advice only from the wiser of myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23478	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23479	Just one quick question since I'm calling on article 107. While counterpart Katarina mentioned Mr. Milivojevic in the previous replica, I wonder if he received a sudden pain in the arm or in one of his fingers when he showed such a juicy display to his committee group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23480	I didn't see it, and I can't comment. Please close the circle of replicas. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23481	I thank the Honorable Chairman and the Honorable Ministers for finally returning to the subject of the agenda and the law we are discussing. For the sake of the public, let's immediately locate which two objectives have been achieved by the proposed law. The first goal is no suspicious respect for the Constitutional Court's decision. I'd like to ask the chairman to keep the MPs quiet for a moment, if that's all right. Thank you. Therefore, the first objective achieved by the proposed law is respect for the Constitutional Court's decision, since it is ultimately both an obligation, given the binding fact of the Constitutional Court's decision. The second goal is for respected ministers to slowly introduce order into an urban chaos. The generators of this urban chaos are certainly not since yesterday, but rather much earlier. How are they generated? They are generated systemically, and in a practical sense, by the fact that what has been systemically solved and arranged has been practically misapplyed through various types of abuses, whose consequences we still feel today. When we talk about the law, what is good and what citizens need to recognize as good is that we have now shifted the burden of legalising procedures to units of local self-government or local self-government, and these are procedures that involve the subsequent issue of building and use permits. Why is that good? For two reasons. The first reason is that units of local self-government must take account of their budgets, as the burden of budget goes to the full cost of legalisation in the part where certain commissions and services are engaged. However, here I would ask you, Mr Minister, to pay particular attention, as the SPS parliamentary group has proposed 30 amendments, where it has focused mainly on some of the problems that the SPS parliamentary group considers to have remained open even after submitting the draft law. What are those problems? He had, in one provision of the proposed law, a definition or norm that the competent authority carrying out the legalisation was obliged to educate the Commission. The commission's jurisdiction is to carry out an assessment and to find out whether the object subject to legalisation is usable, from the point of view of what is required of the applicant. Now that's where we get into the situation of who's part of the commission. Of course they have to be professional people with high professional references. But in that situation, they are being transferred a great burden of responsibility, Mr. Minister. Why? Because the project of a executed facility is not the only evidence enough that the facility is usable. What you yourself identified with us yesterday as a problem is that special attention must also be given to what implies the stability of the facility through the existence of a constructive elaborate and against the fire escape. These two elaborates would have to be an integral part of the documentation required for legalisation. Why? Which is why someone from the commission would take on the burden of responsibility to determine both the findings and the opinion that something is stable if it isn't? Two years ago in Zlatibor, Mr. Minister, there was a tragedy, fortunately without victims, which is that the apartment complex of not a little, 20 apartments immediately after the construction, and before the technical reception collapsed. Why? Because the construction was carried out against the building rules, against the law, without adequate armature, and you can imagine that the panel was without properly built-in armature, which is why there was collapse and huge damage. A criminal trial has been initiated against the guilty, a particular contractor and a supervisory authority, and it has been prosecuted. In order for this not to happen to us and so that the commission would not now have this kind of burden of responsibility, my belief and confidence of the SPS parliamentary group is that this can be avoided by this very proposed amendment, that these two elaborates which indicate whether the object suffers certain negative seismic influences, negative gravitational influences, whether the quality of the material is adequately incorporated or not, whether the quality of the material is adequate or not, in any case, must be contained in that. Normally, it requires the great costs you've been pointing out. Who will bear the burden of these costs, the local self-government unit and its budget? It's hard because it's a huge cost. Should this be borne by the applicant as the owner of an unlegalized facility? Well, for most of them, that's a lot of expenses. It is necessary to find a way to make this sampling, if sampling has to be carried out cheap and this procedure is to be completed in the only possible way in a fair and legal manner. It remains in the text of the law to be contained, especially in the project of a executed object, precisely these assessments that I have pointed to, which point to the stability of the facility and constructive solutions, because the tragic consequence that I have already pointed to will occur. What I don't think has been sufficiently stipulated in the law is a particular termology. The term is mentioned – low-building facilities and for them are issued with one solution building and use permits, and a special project is needed for such facilities. I'd like to ask you to do one precision here, because low-building facilities are both roads and tunnels and underground infrastructure. And how well we know that for these facilities this law does not foresee the issue of a building and use permit. Then it is necessary to specify the name and say that these are low-building objects that are not objects of general purpose. Then we have no problem with the possibility of carrying out the legalisation process in a legitimate way. Furthermore, what is repeatedly shown through the amendments, and what I will point out, is one contradiction in the law itself in terms of deadlines, as pre-inclusive deadlines, and we know that these are deadlines that imply the inability to continue to conduct the procedure unless a timely request or documentation or anything imposed by the competent authorities is submitted, so that there are two deadlines that exclude each other -- a period of one year, and that as a time period starting from receiving notice of the possibility of legalisation and the other is six months. These two deadlines exclude each other and we have defined those two deadlines by amending the amendment that the competent authority can order the applicant to apply for a shorter period of one year, but no longer than one year, because of the urgency of legalisation. Our principle and basic principle in this legalization process is efficiency, speed and legality. Now to get to the capital that creates prejudice and confusion among the citizens, and that's the destruction of the facilities. The destruction of objects, Mr. Minister, must undoubtedly be sanctioned, as a criminal consequence, to follow immediately after the beginning of the work. Then they should be destroyed, not when the facility is finished. When the facility is finished, we enter into other consequences, and that means damages. Another problem is what we're going to do in situations where we have housing that will also be subject to the provisions of this law, where we have one apartment that's legalized, and the others aren't legalized. Who's going to take down that apartment building and with what right, with what legal grounds? Absolutely not. What are we going to do for safe-keeping flats in residential or residential housing that have legally reached these apartments, come into possession of the same ones, pay for the purchase price, and the facility has been illegally built, apartments sold multiple times? Can this apartment collapse without being damaged by someone who's a lifesaver in that apartment? Absolutely not. Therefore, citizens should also know not to create prejudices about the destruction of objects in the way that it is suggested by certain critics of this law, not to be torn down by objects in accordance with the provisions of this law, but only after the adoption of the Law on Planning and Construction, which should be given extreme attention. What seems to me to be very important in the end to point out is the fact that the law requires special regulation, in addition to the deadlines given as deadlines for making complaints or complaints, the statement of the legal remedy, to which these objections, i.e. legal medicines, are made. It's not, to be honest, well-defined in law. With the amendment, we have tried to correct this in a procedural and legal sense, because the MP group of the SPS and how it pays considerable attention to these very formal parts, so that the law is as clear as possible, as possible and not to cause any possibility of different interpretation, especially from those who will apply it, and these are, in particular, the competent authorities of the local self-government units. That is why we have asked for an amendment, and I believe that you will surely accept this amendment, to specify who the second-degree organs are, in which cases they can act, when the AP Vojvodina can do so, when the City of Belgrade can do so, etc. In any case, the SPS parliamentary group, as my esteemed colleagues Susana Spasojevic and Milisav Petronijevic said, will undoubtedly support this law and we will be even more pleased if amendments that are extremely well-intentioned and extremely useful are accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23482	Thank you. Dear People’s MPs, in agreement with Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to pass the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we're going to continue at 1400 hours. The first speaker after the break is Alexander Pejcic. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Gentlemen, the minister was prevented from arriving until 15.00 hours ago. In order to gain time, I give you a choice to speak to those MPs who do not condition the minister's presence. That's my suggestion. If there are such MPs who want to speak and do not condition their presence, then let's continue our work, and when we exhaust those speakers, if the minister doesn't arrive in the meantime, we'll take a break until the minister arrives. We have one speaker. Please sign in. Mrs Ljubica Mrdakovic Todorovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23484	Dear Chairman, we have heard on several occasions that legalisation in Serbia has been carried out since 1997 with controversial results mainly due to the rise of the executive authority for a long time, as only 15% of the 700,000 requests submitted for legalisation of objects in the Republic of Serbia have been resolved so far, unfortunately. We are also witnessing that one of the burning problems of the property-legal sphere in the Republic of Serbia is a large number of built objects that are citizens beyond the law prescribed procedures, i.e. without issuing a building and use permit. The so-called wild construction leads to quite contusive situations on the ground, starting from the fact that the tolerance of wild construction by citizens creates the impression that they are all equal before the law, but that the law is not equal in front of everyone, that most of them have to obtain all the necessary building permits, and that not a small number of individuals are spared that obligation, and that due to the status of an illegal object, the price of the same is significantly lower than the market price, and that infrastructure problems, such as the connection to the electricity network, to the gas network, often resulted in the water network as a result of the self-will of individuals and again of illegal association to the same, leading further to the process of the competent state authorities. This unnecessarily burdens the judicial and administrative system of this country, while taxpayers are obliged to pay unnecessary costs due to one’s negligence, error or spite. Although there were more attempts in the previous period to solve this problem and finally exit the grey zone of tens and hundreds of thousands of illegally built objects, existing legal solutions did not give the expected results and the current effect in the legalisation process was very weak. On the other hand, unsettled dealings with obtaining construction and use permits, as well as the subsequent legalisation of the already built buildings are constantly generated by property and administrative disputes, and thus unnecessarily burdened by the judicial system of the state, while the real estate market is quite disabled by the fact that wild construction facilities cannot reach a full market price, but are often sold in a wasteful manner again at the expense of citizens who have been trying to provide their own and their families with a roof over their heads. Now I'm going to look back on some of the members of this law. Article 12 of this law strengthens the legalisation conditions because, with a request submitted by 11 March 2010, a project of a executed facility is also sought, rather than an elaborate, as was the case in the previous law. Article 13 defines a minimum project documentation for legalisation which is both more detailed and stricter than was provided for in previous solutions. By introducing the surface criteria up to and above 300 m2 Article 14 introduces the difference between objects built because of the elemental needs of life and objects built for the purpose of obtaining property benefit. Article 19 has defined the obligation of the competent ministry to prescribe closer terms for the facilities referred to in Article 3 of this Act and it is certain that the sublaws of this Act will. the rules to be defined by the deadline in which the ministry should do so. Article 31 defines the obligation of local self-government to enable appropriate conditions and payment methods. The whole chapter four - demolition is also the subject of this law. In the light of the fact that it does not act as a preventive adhesion, the certainty of its application and the provisions of the Destruction Act must be applied in order for certain repressive measures to be reflected preventively on most citizens, thus obtaining the conditions to finally introduce order in the matter of wild and legal construction. Article 34 provides for the accession of illegal facilities to the municipal infrastructure, until a solution to accept or reject the requirements for legalisation of the facility is adopted. If the Authority’s solution is negative, i.e. the facility cannot be legalised, the solution shall be delivered to the organisation that carried out the infrastructure connection and then abolished. I hope this law starts to regulate this problematic matter and the problems we've had so far, so the SNS in the voting day will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23485	Thank you. By the time the minister arrives, the list is as follows: MP Miroljub Stojcic, Zoran Bojanic, Vera Paunovic and Srdjan Mikovic. The word has the People's Messenger Miroljub Stojcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23486	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, fellow MPs, as my fellow SPS colleagues pointed out, will support this law, primarily for the reasons that this law has a sociological character, which will create conditions primarily for those of our citizens who have built these facilities out of housing and life. We have before us a law that defines through seven areas and 40 members the conditions, procedures and means of legalization of objects, or parts of buildings built without a building permit. In the first part, it is clearly defined without an alternative to which this law does not apply and for which construction and use permits cannot be issued. These members of the law would significantly facilitate the work of competent republican and local authorities to legalise facilities, so there is no dilemma about meeting these conditions. It is clearly defined that for buildings built on land unfavourable for construction, built of materials that do not provide the sustainability of the facility, as well as its safety, built on public land, built in the first degree of protection of natural and cultural goods, built in protected zones, etc., will not be able to subsequently issue a building permit. It's a good thing it defines this law, all the details of those facilities for which no building permit will be issued. In the part of the law relating to the conditions, modes and procedures of legalisation of the facility, it is certainly necessary to highlight the particular Article 5 which defines that the building permit or the use of the permit will be issued for those facilities which do not have the authority to build by 11 September 2009 and for which a request for subsequent issue of the building permit or use of the permit was submitted by 11 March 2010. It should also be pointed out here that when the competent authority determines that the facility fulfils the prescribed conditions, construction and use permits can be issued by one solution, which is the newspaper in our administration that deals with the planning and urban and property affairs. This law also defines the effectiveness of the body responsible for issuing a building permit, since it is required to issue a building permit within eight days from the reception of the opinion and report of the Commission on the fulfilment of the conditions of use of the facilities, which I consider to be good. It clearly defines what needs to be contained in the legalisation request and what the object project for legalisation needs should also contain. This is defined through five or 15 positions the applicant is required to meet. Personally, I believe that the project task prescribed by the applicants is excessive here, given that we already have a condition and that we already have an object that exists on the ground. Unfortunately, since we also have illegal objects of municipal infrastructure, underground, line-line, infrastructure facilities, illegal low-building facilities, this law defines what the requirement for legalisation and these objects should contain and create the possibility to legalise them, and there are also such objects in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. What is also very important and needs to be pointed out in particular is that the judicial solution issued by the competent authority requires the applicant to meet the prescribed conditions illegally built is a legal basis for the registration of property rights in the public book on the registration of immovable property and rights on them, both the aim and the essence of the adoption of this law. Because, finally, the applicant becomes the owner of the facility and manages it. The part of the law also defines how to determine and the amount of compensation for the construction land. Personally, I think it's a good thing that Articles 27 and 28 are given jurisdiction to units of local self-government prescribe a criterion for calculating the amount of land planning compensation. From that level, units of local self-government can write down certain necessaryness and reductions for their citizens, as far as these fees are concerned, all with the aim of legalising as many objects as possible. This law defines that the compensation for the arrangement can be paid in equal wars, up to 20 years. All this imposes the need to send a message to all local self-governments today to immediately move forward with a general act that will regulate the criteria for determining the amount of compensation, i.e. not to wait for a deadline of six months and the adoption of this law, and that this will be a very serious income from local communities, and as regards income from legalisation and income from property taxes and subsequent fees for payment on the control of these facilities. The fourth area defined the destruction of buildings that were built by 11. 09. 2009 and for those applications submitted by 11. Three. In 2010, as well as for buildings that were built after 11. 09. In 2009. For these first collapses, they will not be carried out until the final procedure has been properly completed, and that is good, while for these others, after 11. 09, according to the law, a building inspector makes a solution without delay if he finds that the facility was built and completed without a building permit after 11. 09. In 2009. Mr Minister, or representatives of the Government, I also think that these owners should be allowed legalisation and that you should accept these amendments that have been directed and given by the SPS MPs. In this way, they would equalize all the owners of all the objects that were illegally built. Before I finish, I just want to point out that the role of local self-government is repeatedly mentioned here, in one negative context. Personally, since I've worked in local self-government for a long time, local self-government is just one of the factors involved in this problem. I can tell you that in Vranj, the service has arranged that in two days it can issue a building permit if all consent is obtained. However, this road to obtaining consent, from EPS, from water supply, gasification, heatification, and God forbid they recommend for the facility that you build a trafo station, etc., etc., that I do not talk about public enterprises, there is a time distance that my colleague Dinkic also spoke of. When making a new law, which is indeed inevitable, as far as planning and construction are concerned, it is necessary to be very careful and to make clear all elements related to the process of obtaining a building permit. Since I am bound by time, the effects of this law have more and more in a positive sense, and for this reason I call on all MPs to really accept this law and to declare ourselves in the day of voting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23487	Thank you, too. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23488	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in recent history, when I say -- more recent history, I think of the period from 2003 to today, the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has considered the bill on legalisation of objects five times. This issue was resolved by the 2003 Law on Planning and Construction, 2006, 2009 and by the 2011 addition of the law, as well as by the Regulation of the same year. Decision of the Constitutional Court of 3 March 2011, concerning citizens' submissions, opened a procedure for assessing the constitutionality of the provisions of Articles 185 of 200. The Law on Planning and Construction, and the Court found that those provisions were not in accordance with the Constitution. That is exactly why the new Bill on Legalisation of Objects would be accessed, which would be in line with the Constitution. I can say that we are world champions or that our national sport is a variety of ways of reaching and building up, locking up terraces, balconies, loggia and so on. But it is not just a problem in Serbia, the problem of legalising illegally raised objects is not just our invention. All the repercusions of poorly-made laws are still rooted in the former SFRY and all the former SFRY republics have similar problems. By studying this matter, it is known that no one has moved far away and that they all have more or less the same problem as we do. I followed some sort of legal solution in the Republic of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia, like all republics of the former Yugoslavia, took as a rapper back in 1968. So that's what the former Yugoslavia did, so that all those buildings that were built by 1968 got legal status, and after that everything that was done was illegal. Also, they set their laws of 1978 and 1993 on planning closer to the way and path of resolving the issue. Unfortunately, even to this day, they do not know the exact number of illegal objects in Slovenia, although the Government tried in 2012 by some regulation to determine closer ways of legalisation. That's pretty bad for the public. So they only read the data to launch seven to eight thousand procedures a year for the destruction or for the launch of criminal and criminal responsibilities of those who broke the law, but they didn't get much further away from this problem, as did we. Also, in 2011 a Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings was introduced in Croatia, where many of the solutions that were proposed in this bill, with them, when it comes to housing, houses, apartments, some kind of border of 400 square meters, that's 300 square meters, and that's a lot more administration and a lot more taxis than we have. At the end of this review on the history of resolving the legalisation problem, I would mention that the Italian Senate has made a decision in its time to declare a general legalisation of illegally raised objects. According to the proposal for a law that lies before us, the legalisation of illegally raised objects will take place under the same conditions that apply to the regular obtaining of a building permit, which is one of the objections raised by the Constitutional Court. The bill also defines the deadlines for submission and provides that legalisation applies only to those entities that submitted the legalisation requirements by 11 March 2010, and built the immovableity by 11 September 2009, which tells us there is no new application deadline. The paper is that legalisation requires an object's derivative project and all accompanying documentation. When it comes to paying mandatory fees, which has always been an argument that has been maximumly used in the story of legalisation, the law does not provide for any reductions in the release, but has been recommended to local self-governments to approve certain projects and extensions of payment deadlines for certain categories of obligors. Here, above all, it is thought of persons who have solved housing problems with this illegal construction, or who have no other real estate, apartment, house, cottage, or who have self-delivered communal infrastructure. Finally, not to be obliged, it should be pointed out that more than 700,000 were filed, most of us mixed in the exhibitions, the legalisation requirement, that all around 15% was resolved and that there are estimated to be about a million and 300 thousand illegal objects in the Republic of Serbia. We don't think this bill will solve 100% of the state of illegal and illegal objects, but we have to move from a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23489	Thank you, too. The word has a folk MP, Vera Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23490	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, respected members of the government, construction and housing policy is certainly one of the most important issues directly touched by every citizen and every one of our families, given that the desire for its own living space is the natural need of every man. Therefore, the legal solutions made in this area must be such as to satisfy the widest circle of those who are interested in them, therefore, in our entire population. Although our entire legal system, unfortunately, cannot boast that it belongs to those legal systems that go into step with the widest social relations and reality, as well as those legal systems that are characterized by consistent application and efficiency of the implementation of its own legal norms, it has proved to be completely ineffective, inefficient, and out of the real life flows it has tried to regulate. As best evidence of that, we have known the facts of the number of objects built past the existing legal procedure, for which for many years we can't even determine exactly how many there are, except that there are a lot of them, from several hundred thousand to over one million and 300 thousand. This government is not the first, but we hope it will be the last one trying to deal with a big problem in this area. The issue of legalisation has already been dealt with in the existing Law on Planning and Construction, but the Constitutional Court has ruled that the entire head of the 13th Law, which referred to the legalisation of the facilities, members 185 to 200, did not comply with the Constitution and ceased to apply on 7 June 2013. I would refer only to two very important facts in the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision, when assessing the constitutionality of these members of the law. In fact, the Constitutional Court took the view that the legal process of legalising lawlessly built objects, as such is not contrary to the Constitution, but that, in order to build a roof over the head, internationally recognised human right to home and when illegal construction was aimed at gaining profits, the need for economic activity, and building facilities by the state and other public-law entities by means of funds from the budget, must be made a distinction in respect of respect of the principle of legalisation of lawless objects. Another important thing that the Constitutional Court has indicated is that the correct period of time for which this procedure can be applied must also be set for the legalisation procedure, as it cannot be allowed in the future to disrespect and devalue legal standards on construction through the use of legalisation institutes. Given these facts, it seems quite logical that the Government sent this matter to us as a special law. Therefore, the legalisation process will no longer be treated as part of the Law on Planning and Construction. In this bill, a clear limit has been made which objects will be legalised. It will be only those facilities that were built or upgraded by 11 September 2009 and those for which a legalisation application was submitted by 11 March 2010. This should send a clear message to the unconscious builders, that their disrespect for the law will not ultimately be worth it. These procedures will be managed by the same authorities that are already in charge of issuing building and use permits, municipal authorities of the administration, or the Republic Ministry, and we hope that they will carry out this great legalisation process with a higher degree of efficiency than when they issue those permits themselves. As far as these technical details are concerned, there will be similar requirements as before, geodetic footage, project, proof of property rights or use, evidence of regulation of fees for municipal land and tax equipment. I especially appreciate the fact that in the procedure of the Bill's proposal, a specific problem of lack of self-using permission is now recognised, since a significant part of the built housing is built on the basis of a building permit and that the self-using permit is missing. In such cases, a simplified procedure is foreseen, the facility shall be reviewed by the relevant commission and the applicable authorisation issued within eight days of giving a positive opinion to the Commission. The already mentioned difference in dependence on the purpose of an illegally built facility is foreseen. Namely, less necessary documentation will be required for housing facilities up to 300 square metres of surface area for the project of the executed object, and only technical bases and sections with reports, while for larger buildings and for buildings built for economic needs, more extensive technical documentation will be required, including depictions of the existing state, nivelation, specifications of specific parts of the facility, schematics, installations, etc. It is of great importance that Article 20 will be foreseen that legalization by building and converting former residential rooms will be possible only by means of an appropriate contract, because in practice, countless times, such buildings have been created by an earlier illegal assignment or usurpation of these spaces, and that such construction interventions not only affect the functionality and aesthetic appearance of the building, but often also by the very safety and static of the building, so it is no wonder that we have had cases of the entire buildings collapsing or opening rinks only because of these illegal activities. Compared to the previous law, a different issue of compensation for construction land arrangements has been regulated, so from now on its height and possible failures will be regulated by local self-governments. I believe that this is a solution in the spirit of the Constitutional Court's decision, because certainly local self-government has the possibility of better insight into the fact that there are areas of wild construction that are created for mere housing, and on the other hand, where it was built without permission, to extract extra profits through business and commercial activity or for exclusive housing or weekend settlements. Therefore, interested parties will also have a better opportunity to put more direct pressure on those responsible for their determination at the height of these fees, in the event of reasonable satisfaction. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the PUPS parliamentary group believes that the proposal for this law is an important step forward in creating better legal and property security for our citizens, and will support this legislative proposal in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23491	According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Mr. Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23492	Chairman, I think article 89 has been broken. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that the minister is required to be present during the debate, which is the first position of this member. You, as I recall, extended the work of the National Assembly after 1800 hours today. People's MPs can sit here, listen and participate in the debate. The previous speakers who spoke about this law in one way cannot get the minister's comment and I don't think that's how they're going to get quality in this debate. I don't think it's right for the minister to violate the dignity of the National Assembly in this way and you shouldn't have allowed it. Certainly, we can continue the debate because the costs would certainly be higher if we were to make interruptions, but I would like to point out that this is the kind of behavior that the minister is inadmissible and should not be tolerated by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23493	At the beginning of the afternoon debate, I gave an explanation of the minister's absence. You weren't here. I have also made a proposal, given that part of the MPs will not hold a debate about the law unless the minister is there. I have made a proposal to speak to MPs who want to discuss the law in the absence of a minister. That's what we agreed, and I don't think we're losing anything. We'd just lose more if we were there by the offices for the last hour. I don't oblige you to be here and to speak. When it's your turn to speak, either there will be a minister here or there will be no debate. That's what I can promise. Now let us use this time, I think it's reasonable, to speak to those MPs who want to. There is a representative of the ministry who will convey attitudes and sightings. I expect it will somehow reach the minister. I'm asking you to accept that, so we don't have to worry about that right now. I can stop this, but what do we get? Nothing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23494	I don't understand you now. It doesn't say anything in the Rules of Procedure. I agreed to continue the debate, just to point out that it wasn't right. I was there when you arranged it with MPs who wanted to speak, but I don't think it's right. What you're talking about doesn't say in the Rules of Procedure. It often happens in the Assembly that some things that are not written in the Rules of Procedure are applied. Please, let's keep that to a minimum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23495	What I say responsibly is that the rightful minister is absent. It has an obligation that is not only a commitment at government level, but an international obligation and I thought it was justified. I'm asking you to accept that, and that's what you've accepted, as far as I understand. According to the Rules of Procedure, the word is Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23496	I'm advertising Article 27. Mr. Chairman, we understand the minister's obligations, but you understand, the debate on such an important law must be interactive. We MPs must be able to ask and ask for clarifications. Mr. Ilic has so far shown that he is ready, though a little too broad and a little off topic, to give these arguments. Here, for example, I have a particular problem that no one can answer except the minister, and it's about the law. So, because of the quality of the debate, because of the answers we can't get by talking in the camera and you, I think we'd better wait for the minister. We won't lose anything because we'll wait for the minister, and the citizens and we'll all get it when the minister's here, because he might realize that he's wrong in some solutions or he'll explain something to us and convince us to make a mistake. That's all it's about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23497	I do not see the need for you to defend the interests of those MPs who accept this kind of debate. Therefore, I believe that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured, and I ask you to allow people who want to conduct an argument to speak. We can go on forever if we're going to advertise a breach of the Rules of Procedure and then I'm going to end the debate, but we're not getting anything with it. Here you go, sir. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23498	Mr. Chairman, I have a proposition. Those who want to speak to you and the cameras, speak, but skip those who wait for the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23499	That's what we agreed. I don't force or force anyone to speak while the minister is away. So, we agreed to move on. The word is by MP Jasmina Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23500	The Honorable Chairman, fellow MPs, representative of the building ministry, respected citizens, yes, I don't address cameras, I address citizens, and I think that's why I'm in this assembly. I'd be glad the minister was here, but apparently, he was denied his obligations. We have a representative from the ministry, and that's why I have no doubt about whether or not to discuss this law, although the minister is not present. The colleagues they have will be waiting for the minister's return and everyone will be pleased. So, once again, respected citizens, I believe that it should not be too professional in the area regulated by the proposed Law on Legalisation of Objects, so to say that we really need this law, because it solves the serious problem of many citizens. The law is before us, as it is. He's not perfect, like a lot of laws before this. That is why I expect that through the congregation debate and amendments, we will improve it. But in order for the years of chaos in the area of construction to begin, something or something should begin. I think the proposal for this law is a start and should be supported. Something else that is very important, and to eradicate rooted chaos, it is not enough just to pass the law. I believe that, first of all, its application will have to be controlled seriously. We have a law that considers lawless construction to be a criminal offense. A law whose application was not controlled. If it is, it was selective, so we're where we are today. The proposed legalisation law refers to illegally built buildings built by 11 September 2009, for which citizens applied for legalisation until 11 March 2010. At this time, 700,000 legalisation requirements were filed, although according to data from the Republika Geodetic Institute in Serbia, there are a total of 1,300,000 unrecorded objects. Here is an opportunity for local self-governments, which, according to the proposal of this law, determine the height, manner and time limits of payment, account for legalisation fees, and thus contribute to their environments to make it easier for citizens to bear the financial burden of legalisation. As a positive example, the City of Novi Sad and what has been achieved this year can serve. In Novi Sad, the city building office initiated talks with investors, several meetings were held with them, and their opinion and suggestions were introduced a new lower value of the point applied to the fee calculation, a more favourable, higher bonus for full payment, as well as a more favourable, more favourable deadlines for discounts. The effect of this type of work, a partner relationship with users, is already being viewed in an increased number of requests for a building permit, and it comes out slowly, or at least we are trying to get out of the gray zone of illegal construction. I think many local self-governments should follow this example. The fact is that the very word "illegal construction" paints what it means for the owner of such an object. So without the right to anything that goes along with an object for which there is a building permit, or a useful permit. The scariest fact is that such objects are threatened by destruction, at that time. What was personally important to me was to make a positive statement about the bill's proposal to the citizens who own buildings for which they do not own a building permit or use a permit. It is acceptable for citizens that if they are not able to pay legalisation fees now, they can enroll their facilities in the immovableity cadasar and thus make their facilities legally visible and make sure that no one will destroy them, and when they are able to legalise them. Maybe they'll do it in some future period, their children. Others, who want their facilities not only to be legally visible, but to be their capital with which they can go to market, are acceptable ways, i.e. the possibility of agreeing with their local administration terms, or deadlines for paying legalisation fees. Since this bill regulates an area where it is many years old, perhaps even decade-long chaos and correcting someone's mistakes from the past, without being repeated in the future, I call on the minister, I hope that the minister of the ministry will transfer this, that as soon as possible, the new law on spatial planning and construction is seriously prepared, because this is a law that all investors are eager to expect, but only if the new law will simplify the whole process. When I say simplify, I mean much less procedures, simpler procedures, as well as the less service of intermediaries in this business, which so far have been a major brake, but also a flow boiler for many machinations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23501	Thank you. The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23502	Ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning, I would like to point out that this must be an important step forward, when we talk about creating a legal basis to regulate the issue that the Ministry of Urbanism is dealing with and, in that sense, as a representative of the Roma Party and as a member of the SNS Parliament Club, I am giving full support. However, I would talk more about another problem and where I would ask the ministry's representative to deal with these issues together and find the best possible solution to the problem I'm going to talk about right now. In this regard, I have proposed two amendments, not to solve this problem in the best possible way, but to open up the possibility of talking about it and finding together the best possible solution. At the very beginning, I'm saying let's see what's best to solve the next problem I'm going to talk about. The problem goes, in any case, is a kind of continuation of the discussion discussed by colleagues from the parliamentary club and who speak and represent the interests of pensioners and the SPS, which is how we can solve the question of the most socially endangered categories, which perhaps in this process, in the period from the construction of these facilities in 2009 to the moment they were able to apply, did not formally do so. We have a whole number of people who belong to socially endangered categories that did not formally apply during that period and exclusively because of this formal issue. Just because they didn't apply, they can come into a situation, say, that local self-government brings them a solution to tear down that facility, because based on this, you don't have the right to legalize that same facility. If it were indeed a failure of the state and that it was our obligation as a Assembly to meet these citizens, it also tells the document that, through certain municipalities, the international community funded the reporting of these facilities, and that it was precisely the irresponsibility of the state, or people at the place, I would not now read the document in which all these municipalities were being done, that this was not done in the way that it should have been done. For example, today I heard from a man from Kacharev, who says - I have a house, she is on land, she is who she is, 25 square meters, but I didn't report it and I can't legalize her. As an additional argument, the fact is that I have conducted consultations with several networks of NGOs, which are also the Decade League and the Roma Women's Network and other representatives of NGOs, who have said in a very clear way that we also have the problem in the settlement of Lica, both in Kragujevac, Panchev, when we talk about the Great Rit and some other settlements in Serbia. In that sense, please, let's really find a common solution to solve this problem. Why is the solution we're talking about, why is there a constitutional basis for this solution to be solved in the best way. I'd just like to stick around and hear from you only if possible with the government's representative about it. You know that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia says in a very clear way that the categories of population that are essentially in a socio-economic position differ, compared to other categories of population, that we can apply so-called affirmative measures towards them. Socially endangered categories are exactly that part of the population we're talking about and where the Constitution gives us the opportunity to meet them. The proposal I'm talking about doesn't go that way for us to continue the chaos we've had so far. As the colleague used to say, somewhere in support of the fact that someone who built some apartments, which were exclusively built to create a certain economic gain on the market, is already talking about housing units in which concrete people live. I also have to say, as the president of the Roma Party, we are on the one hand planning tens of millions of euros from the IP next year to invest in the housing, and on the other hand, we will be able to bring down existing housing units for one single reason that they have not applied in time. In that sense, I suggest that we think together today and tomorrow and at the Committee's session, that at some point until we get to the voting day, together we see what this real additional deadline is. I have proposed a relatively short period of 90 days, so that the state shows responsibility to all citizens, in such a way that we clearly tell these citizens, here we want to meet you, we give you one more chance, and that it is not just a normal letter on paper there are means in international organisations, let's say, that there is a special man in the Ministry of Urban Affairs who will be paid by the European Security and Co-operation Organisation, who will work precisely to address the issues of those I have spoken about. There are special funds for settlements, therefore, there is a possibility that we can manipulate the international community within a relatively short period of time, that we can focus these funds in this direction, help these people and say that this law solves the housing issue, perhaps several thousand people, and that we don't have to invest tomorrow to solve the same people in a variety of ways, so that they can reach certain housing units. So, my request is, in particular, to you, as someone who has worked on making that law and who is certainly able to find a solution with the minister in that direction, in the best possible way, to sit and see together in the next two days, to find this solution that will be best possible and that will really give Serbia that one argument and European integration to say, we are doing all we can on our part, that the issue of Roma integration and the realization of decade is solved in the best way, but I conclude with this sentence, this is not just a question of members of the Roma national community, this is a question of socially endangered categories, because the amendment that I have proposed refers exclusively to resolving the issues of those people who are socially endangered. So, if all the people who are socially endangered had housing units of that kind, to extend their deadline, to see what that reasonable term is, I thought it was 90 days, maybe there are other solutions. So, please, in that direction, we're talking these few days and we're going to find the best possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23503	The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. If the minister doesn't get there, we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23504	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Construction, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the basis of the results and analysis of the law governing the legalisation of objects, as well as the Constitutional Court Decisions, which assessed the constitutionality of certain provisions of the law, found it necessary to access the creation of a special law that would regulate the legalisation of buildings, i.e. the subsequent issue of building and use permits for buildings built by 11.9.9. We must not forget that out of the 700,000 legalisation requirements in the Republic of Serbia only 15% have been resolved, which is a serious problem. The draft law on the legalisation of objects regulates the conditions of the legalisation procedure of the facility, as well as parts of the facilities built without a building permit, as well as parts of the facility built, or conditions for issuing the use of the permit. The new law does not cover buildings built at a time when construction permits were not required in accordance with the regulations. I must point out that the new law provides for the failure to issue construction and use permits for buildings built on land unfavourable for construction, such as slides, wetlands, non-secured buildings, public-purpose buildings, buildings built in the first degree of the protection of natural and cultural goods, buildings in the area of military and defence complexes. The draft law provides only in the last two cases for the issue of construction and use permits, if the applicant applies for legalisation for consent from the owner of the adjacent facility, or for consent from the public goods manager that the object in question is in function for public purposes. The draft law also provides for the issue of a building permit, i.e. the use of a permit for buildings that were constructed or upgraded by 11 September 2009, for which an application was submitted for the subsequent issue of a construction permit, i.e. the use of the permit by 11.3.2010. The law also provides for the issue of a building permit, i.e. the use of a permit for buildings that had a building permit, but when the works were carried out, they deviated from the confirmed main project. In such cases licences shall only be issued when the competent authority has determined that there has been no breach of the prescribed conditions for construction and use in the case of deviation from the main project. That's what I think, all right. The bill also regulates legal provisions for both natural persons and legal persons. Suggestions from the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration have been accepted, concerning the harmonisation of criminal provisions of the draft law, with the Law on Violations. Public hearings and discussions with representatives of municipalities and cities, representatives of the Serbian Chamber of Engineering, representatives of the Anti-Corruption Agency, representatives of the Republic of Public Defence and the Republic Property Directorate were organised during draft laws. The draft law was also on the site of the Ministry of Construction, where citizens of the Republic of Serbia could electronically give suggestions and objections to the draft law, i.e. Normally with the goal of making as good and efficient a law as possible. In addition to bringing into the legal and legal frameworks, legalised and illegally raised objects, the proposed law also achieves other objectives, which contribute to the economic development of the Republic of Serbia. The owner of a legalized facility creates conditions to implement an energy recovery facility, raises credit for development, upgrade, as well as the possibility of achieving a better price of immovableity, as well as the conditions for sale, and units of local self-government based on the introduction of illegal objects into legal flows create a basis for inflow into the city's budget from the collection of communals and all obligations that the legal facility has towards public utility companies located under local self-government's authority. Finally, the importance of passing an urgent legal process aims to remove any adverse consequences of illegal construction in the Republic of Serbia and, as such, is one of the preconditions for creating a better state system. Based on everything stated in the voting day, the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group will support a bill on legalisation of facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23505	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. (Employee Alexander Pejcic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I've already given my word. I'll give you my word later.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23506	Dear President, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, is in front of us on the second day of debate and debate on the draft law on legalisation of buildings. What caused this law to be passed? The answer is very simple. The Serbian Constitutional Court has declared unconstitutional all provisions of the Law on Planning and Construction, from Articles 185 to 200, relating to legalisation. That's why this law is passed. What do we want to achieve by passing this law? Of course, that we want to achieve a legal framework that will enter the legalisation itself and the establishment of this legal framework in the area we seem to have all agreed to and an area that is quite unsettled. The bill is another step forward towards establishing property records and towards Serbia's desire to join EU countries in this area as well. What's the content of this law? The content of this law are the terms, manner and procedure of legalization of objects that have been built without construction and use of the permit. Of course, the bill also provides for situations where objects cannot be legalised. Objects that can be legalised under this law, which have been built without a construction and use permit, are all those facilities that were built by 11 September 2009, and the application for their legalisation was submitted by 11 March 2010. Apart from these objects, the subject of legalization can also be objects that, at the time of construction, so by 11 March 2009, had a building permit, had a building permit and had a confirmed main project, but when the building was built, there was a deviation from the main project. Also, the subject of legalization can be objects that have construction, but do not have the necessary permits. In such cases, the competent authority, i.e. the commission formed by the competent authority, after having been made aware and after establishing that the facility meets or does not meet the conditions for use, shall be obliged by the competent authority to adopt a solution within eight days of the date of receipt of the Commission’s report. This is Article 8 of the proposed law. I would absolutely agree with my colleague Katarina Rakic, who has submitted an amendment to this article, in this sense, that there is no deadline for the formation of this commission, which should, in any case, be expert and of which, in any case, depends on the issue of a solution on the use of the permit and I absolutely agree with its proposed amendment, that the commission should be formed within 30 days of the date of entry into force of this law. Also, this bill is precise and documents... (President: Mrs. Milanka, please just move the microphone a little bit, it's very loud. ) Also, this bill provides for documents submitted at the request, which are among other geodetic footage of the project of the main building in three copies, evidence of the property of the lease right on the building land, then proof of the payment of compensation for building land and what is common to all, this is proof of the payment of the administrative fee. As regards evidence of property-legal relations, and as regards objects that have been built up or objects where the merger of common premises of the apartment or of those joint rooms has been carried out, a flat as evidence of resolved property-legal relations shall be attached to the contract concluded in accordance with the law governing the maintenance of housing facilities. In the case of registration of property rights in accordance with the law on special registration of property rights, a certified copy of the registration decisions shall be attached as a document. What's that about making every law? Of course, what are the objectives that a law should achieve? Among other things, in addition to this legal framework for regulating the area of legalisation, the objective achieved by this law is certainly legal equality between citizens who have not legalised their facilities and those citizens who have achieved this right in the ordinary procedure. For SNS, it is very important to pass a roof law, which is the Law on Planning and Construction, that in this law, in a fast, efficient and economic way citizens can exercise their rights relating to legalisation and registration of construction facilities. This law, and also in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, gave units of local self-government exclusive jurisdiction to determine the amount of compensation for the construction land. Local self-government will certainly benefit from this fee in local budgets which will certainly be used for maintenance, but also for building new infrastructure. Respect for the law, and in particular respect for the court's decisions, and this is about the Constitutional Court's decision is the foundation of a democratically regulated and legal state. The Serbian Progressive Party wants a regulated rule of law in all segments of society and, of course, in this legalisation section. That is one of the reasons why the SNS will support this bill in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23507	The word is Alexander Pejcic, the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23508	Thank you, General. So, since we had consultations before the start of the session, and you told us that the minister would show up somewhere around 15 hours, I'm in a dilemma right now, Mr. Chairman, do I give you a written statement, so the minister can answer me? Should I wait for the minister so that I can talk to him or simply talk to the citizens of Serbia that I can't get an answer from? I ask you, when will the minister appear in this room so that we can continue the discussion of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23509	Thank you. The minister will be here by 3:45 and I'm taking a break by then. [[after breaks]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The minister's here. Mr. Alexander Pejcic isn't here. The next reported is Mr. Ivan Jovanovic, however, not present at the moment. Next reported is Mr. Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23511	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, today we have before us a bill on the legalisation of objects and there would be no problem if we were to be aware that the implementation of this law in the text was possible as it was given in the proposal. However, it seems to me that this bill, like many other laws that have passed the congregation procedure, does not apply in a certain way or there are major interferences regarding the application of the law. We have a situation that we are likely to discuss these days also the draft law amending the Law on Public Property, where the deadline was two years, and on 6 October, it ends two years after it could be asked to register public property for a public enterprise, for example, a company of capital. Now we're in a situation where October 6th is the end of that time. Let's watch how we extend the deadline. The fact is that, for example, this law which should practically be extended and not applied is similar to the Law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit. A few months ago, we talked about this law, and that law is practically not applicable because it has a problem with interpretation. I'm making an analogy now compared to this Law on Legalization that we have. Namely, this law on special conditions for the registration of property rights on buildings built without a building permit allowing the entry of non-legislative objects and entering public books is unclear whether the registration of property rights is carried out on buildings or parts of objects, and in the application of certain cadastres, it is not clear whether what applies to part of the facility, so it is interpreted as referring to the whole of the facility, so it is interpreted as being over 300 squares though, for example, the built-up part or the part for which the enrollment is required is below 300 squares. Why? It's inexplicably written. Now we come to this law. What's inexplicably written here? A lot of things. Among other things, I'd just like to point out Article 32(2). It's about the destruction of the facility. It is said: "The building inspector will bring a solution to the destruction of the facility without delay if the demolition solution is not reached and if the facility is determined to be built or built without a building permit after 11 September 2009. The object collapses, no object or part of the object is said. The second thing, built by that date, remains part of the construction work, including the lightning dam or something that needs to protect that object or objects next to or a certain part of the facility that prevents the creation of damages on the site or buildings, that part of the works done after 11 September 2009, submitted a legalisation application, if the law is read as it is written, will collapse and then be in a position to raise and ask for permission. That's what it says. When we said it was written, we got the answer to the board – well, well, it's not going to happen. There's a witness who was with me on the board. Do we make the law without being implemented? In the beginning it was said so. I don't think we should do that. We have a situation where, in Articles 33 and 34, we call for a certain act, an act referred to in Article 33, and there is no act in Article 1. I ask if our laws are clear enough that we can carry them out tomorrow. We're not gonna carry them out. The problem is general disorganization or lack of precision in lawmaking, and then we wonder why we can't implement something and wonder why we don't have sublaws. We've been assured that sublegal acts in 99% have been done. Why didn't we get a sublaw with the bill? There's a lot we can criticize. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23512	Thank you very much. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23513	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Minister, I've been on the list before to say, however, I've been waiting for you, Mr. Minister, to sort things out about the law, and also to ask you a question coming from my neighborhood. This law, the law on legalisation of buildings, is the law on which the government should pass, not at least, not a large one, but a small graduation, one exam that it must and can pass in front of Serbian citizens for several reasons. First, we have 1,300,000 illegal construction buildings or, conditionally speaking, savages. We have 720,000 requests to legalize these same facilities. On the other hand, we have one law, so-called Dulic's law, which is no longer a constitutional category, declared by the Constitutional Court that, according to him, the legalisation process cannot be carried out. After all, we have a law that we passed back in March, which has created very big confusion, because citizens thought they would legalise their construction facilities for 100 euros. So, both Serbian citizens and we MPs want to know, first of all, how much will it cost to legalise, then dynamics about paying the funds for that legalisation, deadlines for collecting legalisation documents, how will local environments react when it comes to compensation for construction city land? These are the questions we want to get an answer from you. We can also say that the public debate was and that it was attended by a large number of experts and institutions dealing with this problem, however, they did not answer these questions that I had just asked. Frankly, Mr. Minister, this law is much better than the previous law, Dulic's law. However, there are some provisions that we would like to discuss with you. I hope we get some answers. First of all, it is that Serbian citizens have to collect new documentation in order to apply for legalisation of the facility. These are primarily the project of a executed facility in three examples, then they have to prove that they paid compensation for city building land. This requires large funds, i.e. that citizens and businessmen who have business facilities will have to pay the funds to legalise the facilities. The second confusion is created by Articles 21 and 22 which are in collegiate and which are not complementary and which should give a clear answer regarding the deadline for the submission of the legalisation documentation. I hope you'll make it right, because we and the amendment were responding in that sense. Another important thing is how the prescribed payment dynamics related to legalization will go. It is said here, Mr. Minister, that you can suddenly pay or that you can within 20 years. However, what is ticklish, we received yesterday a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. This is the same report we received in the previous term when Dulic defended the law. However, the Constitutional Court said this law is unconstitutional. I'm afraid the Constitutional Court may react again, because what about those people who paid compensation for legalization at once. How will the Constitutional Court react then? Another important thing about local self-government, since they have no guidelines, and we have five criteria for compensation for city building land, how will local self-government react, related to compensation for legalisation of the building and compensation for city building land? I said there are criteria, there is a possibility, and this depends on the statutes of local self-government that in some local self-government there are much higher prices for compensation for building land, and in some much less. I hope you'll react to that and correct this thing that we've detected as a problem. And finally, there's another problem, and that's what we're going to do with objects that aren't legalized until the deadline that the law provides, that haven't filed a request and whether these objects are going to collapse at all, looking at the aspect of both the social and economic population at this point. So these are the problems we're discussing and in which I hope you'll give us an answer. So, this law is not going to speed up Mr. Minister's legalisation but will slow down the legalisation due to the collection of documentation. We also have a World Bank study that says that our country at the speed of granting permits is in 179 places of 183 countries. In this regard, I would ask you to consider reforming this administration. The reform of bureaucracy that may be holding the city's building permit back. I would ask you, Mr. Minister, that's not what I liked when I read in the explanation that by passing this law we are approaching European legislation. We don't need to pass the law for Katherine Ashton, we need to pass the law for our citizens. The European Union is far from us, and you are aware of that hundred light years. We must imitate our laws regarding our opportunities and our standards. I would also ask you a question that I ask all ministers who come to parliament – will this law apply throughout our country's territory since we are a sovereign state? Whether the law will be applied to KIM, or it may apply after these illegal local elections scheduled for November 3rd, where a government that does not recognise the state forces its people to vote for the same state. It's one big paradox. Or perhaps this law will apply selectively only to those objects built at the border crossing on both sides. Since the surrender of cadastrian books to Albanian separatists is under way, we do not know whether we will be able to implement this law in some future period to create a general urban plan, say Kosovo Mitrovica. It's like this for the dilemma and for the debate. Here I would take the opportunity of Mr. Minister to ask you, about my neighborhood, given that you were the minister of Kostunica's government one of the ministers who made the most in Jablanic County. You've built 24 kilometers of highway, you've built many roads, and we welcome it. However, we have one problem related to the track of Corridor 10 which passes through the Gredile ravine and the town of Predejana. Since you know that there is a Hotel Predejane that is surrounded by this Corridor 10, we as a local self-government have asked to change that route. We're ready to believe me, to some radical measures. We had a quality campaign here to save 600-year-old oak. I hope that we will also, with your help and with the help of your ministry, save that town, save those people who are headed for that tourist facility, because if we don't, 3,000 residents will move out of that space, and you know that physics doesn't know about the empty space. You know who's gonna settle in that space. In the end, Mr. Minister, we, as a party, have responded amendment to this law. We've offered a very different concept than what you've offered us. I hope you will consider our amendments that recommend how the citizens of Serbia think. I'm hoping you'll accept some of our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23514	The word is made by MP Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23515	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today before us the final law on the legalization of illegally built buildings even though it was meant to be in front of this house long ago, back in the spring. The deadline was until June 7th, according to the Constitutional Court's decision to pass a new law and not to have citizens in a legal vacuum, especially those who have already entered the legalisation process. The Constitutional Court objected to the equality of citizens during the legalisation process. They were heard in the discussion of criticism at the expense of the previous law, and heavy words were heard about how the previous law was blamed and that in the mandate of the previous government the most illegal objects, which is a complete "non-sensus". That's one complete lie. I ask you, Mr. Minister, are you sure this law will not also be disputed in the Constitutional Court and will not lead to new inequalities among citizens who will be even more? Because if you leave to municipalities, municipalities of cities and municipalities and their executive bodies to determine for themselves what a discount will be for a citizen who in one local self-government paid for all the infrastructure and whether it will be, and in the other you also leave that local self-government determines what a discount will be for special groups, then I am sure that it will not be in line with constitutional principles. That's the biggest problem. What we had in the meantime, and it could and could have been solved much faster as far as legalization was concerned, should have been resolved under this law, not by the so-called. The catastrian legalization and the enrollment of illegal objects in the immovableity cadastre, I just think that by that legal proposal that you've been praising here, we've just wasted our time. We haven't prepared the right law on legalization, and today we have a problem. The citizens are confused, they don't know what to do. Contradictor statements every day. The old law envisioned the possibility for a citizen to end everything in one place, to sign a contract with the city administration and to complete all procedures for him and then, through a contract, take the obligation to pay and sort of take off all those obligations he has in the forest of administration and in the forest of tents in our country. This law has been disabled, and I think we should pay a little more attention to the citizen, to his rights, to protect every citizen's rights, and that was the authority of the Constitutional Court. We cannot fully correct injustice, nor can we bring to full justice, but we can bring it to a minimum. We can lead to the fact that as soon as this situation is brought to normal and you can't say – it can't be built illegally from spring. It can't be built illegally today. Today, by law, it can't be built illegally, not since spring. You as a minister cannot make such statements. You say – those who legalize can traffic real estate, and those who are enrolled in the cadastre cannot. I don't know if you've read Article 11 paragraph 2. The registration law says that if the party pays compensation for the use of city building land that it can also traffic in that case. So it's in this law. Then where are those documents he won't file to the administration and we won't be sure what kind of facilities our citizens live in? I'm sure we could find a model that would allow quick legalisation, effective, and as to whether or not the Constitution is broken, I'm sure there will be a lot of complaints about this proposal and that it will be controversial. What is the task of all of us and all of the institutions is to make life easier for citizens and to allow laws to be respected in the state and citizens to exercise their rights. We don't have to make it difficult for them. You spoke when you changed the Law on Planning and Construction and abolished the provisions on the conversion that two billion investments would come. I ask you, where are the billions? Where are those two billion, where are those 10 billion from the campaign and why didn't you provide for the construction industry at least part of five billion how much the new government was in charge of investment in the building and that the simple construction industry has what to do? The border unions, Mr. Ilic, claim when they ask your permission, that the value of the works compared to last year is 30% lower, that construction workers' earnings are lower by 30%, that the decline in the construction industry is 25%, that the number of employees in the gray zone in the construction industry has increased by more than 40%. These are devastating data, and it is necessary to seek solutions to this situation, not to attack the opposition. It's not the opposition's fault. You've been in power for 14 months now, and you should do it. What I thank you for is that yesterday you admitted one great thing, one truth, that this government was engaged in six months of reconstruction and that you did not arrive for those reasons to pass this law to the National Assembly in the procedure. I thank you for that, because DS has been saying that for a long time. We're saying that the government is not dealing with citizens' problems, but deals exclusively with attacking the opposition and inventing false dilemmas, false problems. The false problem was reconstruction, because if it was real, you'd be reconstructed. It's completely clear. There are no problems for you citizens, there are no laws, except when you need to get your hand into citizens' pockets. There's only a hack on the DS, and then there's a reconstruction, then there's a hack, then there's a Belgrade, then there's a reconstruction, then there's an election, then there's a hajka. Where does that end? How long are we going to discuss such problems, generate problems, not solve what citizens live on? When does life begin for this government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23516	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't understand the criticism of this law, especially from the ranks of the former regime, since this law, as I understand it, is correcting their law. So their law fell in the Constitutional Court, it was declared unconstitutional and it was an attempt to bring the law into force. They don't appreciate him, they keep criticizing him. Before the law was passed, we also passed the Law on the admission of illegal objects into the building of immovable property and thus allowed one illogicality to be corrected, which is that out of the millions and a half of objects, how illegally it was built, only 720,000 legalized demands and if it wasn't for the previous law that we passed, we would be in a position to bring down 800,000 objects. They do not appreciate the government's efforts, the new government, which wants to correct all the shortcomings that remain, that is, in front of this government. As president of the People's Peasants' Party, I claim that this law is not perfect, but mostly, it prescribes authority to local self-government. I am concerned, given that local self-governments are colorful, in many different coalitions hold power and I am concerned about the simple reason for auxiliary and economic facilities. So, mostly the speakers here were from the city and they were talking about housing. I want to say something about the auxiliary and economic facilities that follow us to the country and which are more denser surfaces than construction facilities. We have a situation that the house is legal, but the auxiliary facilities are stables, hens, boilers, garages... One garage for a combination takes up about 150 square meters. If you have a pair of tractors, if you have skaters, saucers, etc., you only need more than 300 square meters to mechanize, and thus you have exceeded the space that the legal entry into the immovableity catalogue is allowed. I'm also worried about Article 2. I'm afraid that if we leave it to the interpretation of these colorful coalitions, Article 2, where objects that were once not required a building permit before 2003, that don't need to be legalized, then I'm afraid the local authorities won't interpret it that way, but that there will be problems in proving when a barn, some shed, a vault, a garage, a garage is made. I fully support Article 29, but I ask the Government to define the way in which it will be determined, which documents will prove that a single infrastructure is made by means of self-accompaniment, because in most villages, especially in Vojvodina, a large part of the infrastructure is made by self-delivery, of asphalt, telephone, gas pipeline, plumbing. For example, in my place it was made all thanks to the local self-delivery, where citizens singled out the funds and during this law, they are not obliged to pay compensation for the construction land, since they singled out almost all the resources for the creation of infrastructure. I think the government should define this by a regulation, since the article says that local self-government can reduce the value of these works, that it can reduce the legalisation fee, so I'd like it to be a little bit better defined, that it can be, it doesn't have to be, and that it's about to know how much they should reduce the legalisation funds. I also agree with the opposition who said that the people who created an extreme wealth on illegal objects, that they were not capable men, but thieves. With that claim, I can even agree. I can also talk about raising monuments to corruption. About that, I'd like to think of just a few things. This is where the Ada Bridge was mentioned. We all know that before the new year 2012, he was opened with the presence of the president of the Republic and the first man in Belgrade, and it is almost incredible that someone invited people to walk across the bridge in mass numbers. It's the greatest danger for one bridge, if it's newly built, if it doesn't have a license. It's almost incredible that no one has filed a criminal charges for the abuse of the position of those people who have invited people to walk around Ada and thus put them in mortal and life danger, since we who understand something in bridges know that walking, especially in a group, is dangerous for all bridges, including those who have the right to use a license, not those who don't have it. I'd like to know if a criminal charges were filed for abuse of position against such persons. Also, I'd like to be explained whether a criminal report has been filed for access to the traffic that is being built yet without a building permit? I would also like someone to explain to me after the fall of power in the capital, how is it "a great prince of Nambia", "a magastre of Nambia", "a capable genec", here someone said that such people should not be called capable but thieves, how did he get 18 acres of building land on a gift, lift a fence of six meters, etc.? I would also like to be explained here that on the pasture next to the temple of the Holy Sava Minister in the former government has built an object, of which money, etc. And to explain to me whether it's true that over the floor that is his and which is worth more than 500 thousand euros, someone illegally built another 80 squares on that fourth floor of which he owns, to check it out. If my claims are correct, then to take some action against him and against the inspectors who allowed that kind of construction to be made of funds that we don't know where they came from, to add 80 squares of living space to that. People are chasing through the villages behind the shed, the boilers, the pigsty, the henhouse. I think it's time for us to chase these capable as well. I would also like to hear the answer – what will be done against people who, for example, built a water-recycling lead factory, a regional in India, and no criminal charges were filed by the inspectors who were supposed to do so? They got a building permit for a whole other facility, on a completely different plot, and they built something else entirely. I would also like the mall built in Indjia, which takes up 42 thousand square meters, which was built without a building permit, where the spatial plan and the regulatory plans were subsequently changed, so that they could comply with the building that was illegally built, which had no building permit, which had never been used, and behold, the municipality bought thousands of squares at the expense of the budget in that building that was built without construction and use of the permit. Look at the wonders, the director of the Indji Municipality Directorate and the president of the Indji municipality have two penthouses on the roof and a 250 square-square building. Let someone explain it to me - whether they were capable men, as the opposition claims, or whether they were thieves, as they call these capable men. Also, I'd like the minister to explain to me, to tell me, given that there was a roll call here, which people received the bribe? To tell me -- is it true that the Dulic brothers' assistant, meaning not only one Dulic, was detained on October 2nd for receiving bribes to issue a 152,000-euro building permit? Let the minister confirm to me whether it is true or not, given that there have been calls from the opposition's ranks, that we finally tell them which one of their officials has received the bribe and who it's all thought of. Here there is a reasonable doubt that Mr. Janjic, assistant of Mr. Dulic, assistant and Modest Dulic and Oliver Dulic, was a man who was in Subotica, who followed the Dulic brothers where they took office. Is it true that he was detained for issuing a construction permit and receiving a 152,000-euro gift? I agree with the opposition to check all this out and make these capable men, thieves not only get punished, but to take away everything they've acquired in an illegal manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23518	The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23519	The truth works, the Adi bridge was opened with a temporary use of permission, and last November 25th, a request was submitted for the use of the permit for parts of the facility that have already been built. So the Adi bridge is realised in phases and an application for a use permit has been submitted for part of the facility that has already been built. So it's not about having some parts done, so it's about issuing a valid permit. It is about obstruction of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Urbanism in issuing and use of the permit. This is another nonsense we've heard, as is the nonsense of not bringing GUP into the city of Belgrade, because I checked with the Belgrade Urbanist Institute for details. The grave on Vozdovac was in the programme of making GUP from the very beginning of the construction of GUP, and the Jelezovac cemetery in Rakovica is located in the General urban project since 1973. So, for 40 years. When I spoke to the lady from Belgrade's Urbanist Institute, I quote, she told me - hair is rising on my head from nonsense that a minister can pronounce, even if he is Vela Ilic. The signature on the GUP was brought to Minister Ilic by the Republic Commission for Plans. No one from the city carried the General Urban Plan, but if there were certain changes, it happened in the Republic Commission for Plans. So there is no responsibility of the city's officials, but look for the culprit in the Commission for plans that work with the construction ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23520	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23521	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure - Article 107. Just before Mr. Senić was replicated from DS, the dignity of DS, denucing people from the DS and insulting DS members was brutally violated, even by trying to introduce ourselves as criminals who are constantly responding. I'm not surprised that for a word, as reporters of the former prosecutor's office, and sometimes the mobs, the ones whose job it is. You know, we went through that drag through the mud and when the Mayor of the Kings was arrested. Those who denuced us never got up to say sorry here. In the Middle Ages, they used tar and feathers, and we just expect an apology, we expect nothing more than that. This isn't the Middle Ages. This is the 21st century. This isn't a Cossack Assembly, this is still a parlamernt in which we have to keep an eye on the facts we present. Isn't your head of Parliament in charge of some code of conduct? Take off those water polo caps, which prevents you from having a people's voice in your ears. I guess they're blocking your perspective. Look how many DS people you accused before they were released. (President: Mr. Milivoevich, do not replicate. Here I come back to the Rules of Procedure. I really ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. Can you calm down a little, if you can't talk me out of it, try to keep me quiet. If some people across the street were to talk to me about what they know, what a wonderful silence there would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23522	Mr. Milivoevich, please, I guess there's some order. I'm obliged to answer. The man advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr. Milivojevic, the moment you accept the standards of conduct and do not invoke the other side, I will be rigorous and the same applies to the other side. When you use a breach of the Rules of Procedure, then when it's about you or them, it doesn't matter, then it does, but when you do it, it doesn't work. Please, let's introduce normal behavior. Let's get out of here and then this won't happen. Make sure we cut it easy, then. I'm undermining again, I don't want to be a cop over anyone, or be someone who cuts people, takes away their word. I'm really trying to be a tolerance, but don't abuse it, either side. I don't think there was any damage to the Rules of Procedure, no matter what words there were. Please behave like this in the future. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23523	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman, I don't know what I caused the replica, since I wasn't even talking about the MP group, I wasn't talking to anyone at all, I was talking to the minister. I asked if it was true that the bridge on Ada did not have a valid permit, and that the citizens, in front of New 2012, were invited to walk on a bridge that did not have any use for permission, not even temporary, and that, since they were on foot, they were exposed to the danger of life, because a bridge that does not have the necessary license has no proof that it is safe and safe for traffic, even if it was on foot? The second question I asked was about access to traffic, and I asked the minister, clearly and loudly, whether it is true that these access traffic investors, i.e. The city of Belgrade, building and building still without building permits? This is what according to the Law on Planning and Construction, which was brought by the former government back in 2003, falls under criminal law. I asked for some other facilities in Belgrade's territory, and I was exclusively talking to the minister, with some parts agreeing that certain people, who are too rich, etc., are not capable, but thieves, as the opposition claimed. I haven't spoken to any of the MPs in a moment. I asked the minister about what was published information in the means of information. Is it true that his predecessor's assistant, who also performed the post, not only the assistant minister, had been in the town of Sutotica, director of the Directorate, was a co-chair of the municipality of Brother Dulic? I asked if it was true that he was detained, or that he was arrested for taking bribes of 152,000 euros? All my questions were for Minister Velimir Ilic. So, I don't know on what basis these people recognized themselves, I didn't want to offend anyone. The only thing I asked was, is it true that such buildings were built without any building permit? Unlike some farmers who received criminal charges, this went unpunished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23524	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23525	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mr. Risticevic asked is true. Everything he asked was founded and true. Certain services carried out inspection, control and findings. It is true that the city of Belgrade has been granted a test permit, not a used permit. It is true that no overruns on the bridge have been completed and no valid permit can be given. How can you create a state of opportunity and have nowhere else to climb? It's only now they're getting in the car. Please, not now, when you're the minister, you decide, but I'm now deciding and certain professional services can't sign it, because there are no elements to be betrayed and there's still not finished middle section of the bridge, etc. Don't let me explain here now, if you're interested, come here, look. This is not true for the general urban plan of Belgrade at all. Come on, read the Commission's plan log, that false documentation was delivered to the ministry compared to that of the documentation that was in the public debate. That's what it says there. You can read it. And say hello to that lady for her hair on her head and say, "Don't play anymore, because that lady shouldn't behave like that." The minister is telling the truth, and you can check it out. Come on, check it out, all the papers exist. It is true that there is no mention of the cemetery in the new request now, and it is true that they gave up the cemetery on the Leader. Come on, read it, read it, read it, read it, read it, read it, read When you burned under your feet, you stood up to the people, felt the elections in Belgrade and now you can do without a cemetery, and before that couldn't have happened without a cemetery. It is true to talk – builders without a job. Tell me why he's out of a job. When I was a minister last time, no toll company went bankrupt. When you came to power, all the bosses of those companies went to jail, street workers, and firms to bankruptcy. Only two toll companies are not, these are "Planum" and "Energoproject" from larger companies, all others are ruined. Now you ask me – who should we give the job to? Do you know that today two construction firms in Serbia are outside the blockade, speaking from larger firms, who can compete for jobs and give bank guarantees? Everything else is in trouble. Now you asked me – what investments have they come to? Now I'm going to give you a list. You've ruined the project with Azerbaijan, 308 million, I've activated it, and the works go full during, Ljig – Preljina, 308 million. Write freely. The contract was signed, finished, Ljig – Obrenovac. Now the paperwork is being prepared, Verica knows it well, I think 100% will pass the Moravia Corridor project at the end of October. At the end of October, we go to the bank, it ends, about 600m euros. Two concessions, 600m euros, currently collecting bids, companies reporting, will be completed very soon. Calculate how many buildings have been built, through various and diverse projects, solid residential building, other buildings that are the help of buildings etc. and other facilities currently being worked in Serbia, calculate, it turns out that the total current investment has, signed contracts or pre-contracts, two billion and 98m euros. Can we do that part of the work with two companies that are currently capable of credit? Why have these companies been destroyed? Why did one man buy six gigans and bring all six into bankruptcy and ruin it? That's what you have to answer now, that's not my problem. What do we do now? Do you know that now companies come from abroad to compete on our jobs, receive our employees, take over, because we don't have our firms. That's what I'd like to ask you right now. How many companies are in the blockade? Why is everyone in the blockade? Why did people lose their jobs? Why are companies that were extraordinary in bankruptcy? What did you do to them? That's why you gentlemen started new companies. Your former CEO of the party has a huge construction firm. Your Homen, his dad's got a big construction company, so Mrs. Trivan's got some company, doing some work there. You know how many of you there are? Who “taste dogs, ” as the people say. That's why you put these out to open yours. Who made the company the biggest roadie that's ever come into crisis again? Did I make "Intercop" or did you? When I was a minister in the past term, before this government of yours, you know what "MB Miljkovic" was? It's a small company. Now he's a giant. Who's his co-owner, is that what you're wondering? That's what you see. You asked me, who is this? That's right, it's true. And you asked me, sir - who took the bribe? Now let me tell you and that, I'm not hiding anything, everything's open with me. One of Dvori's chief officials, his dad's a construction inspector and he said nicely – we're not going to crash this, but pay my boyfriend there for the campaign, the boy's honest, he wants changes, family walks. Do you understand? That's all true. I'm not hiding anything. There's all the data in the M.O.P., there's statements. So we all leave a trail and it can be found. So don't attack people where there's no reason, and where there's a reason, where certain services do interrogations, what do we do? There are a lot of good people with you, I've worked with a lot of people, but there are fewer. Why? I don't know. Why did you open private companies? Why did you open your party retail companies in every place? It's what someone taught you wrong, and all these companies have now failed or come into crisis or come into trouble. So that's your problem, that's not my problem. But that's why many giants are ruined, citizens are killed, street workers, and how do we get that back to life? How do you recover a company now? Here's a great company called "The Roads of Uzice". You've made a variety of promises, non-payments, inaction with certain actions that you should have done, brought her to a great loser now, because you won't pay the workers. You didn't want to pay them. The city of Belgrade used the Enterprise company here, it introduced 30m euros in blockade. What are we supposed to do now with 3,000 people out there? That's what you took over from those companies that used to be good and healthy. We're making an effort to get all these companies, both yours and yours, and whose everything, back to normal, but it takes time. It's very difficult for us now when we show up with two companies, like the whole state, which are currently not in a blockade, which can provide bank guarantees. You've ruined everyone else. You know what "PZP Belgrade" was – giant, "PZP Nis" – giant, "Vojvod's Way", "Tource way", "Bačka way", "Puts Užice", "Vranje Roads" – giants. What's gone wrong? What did you do to them? I don't know what you did to them. When I was a minister, they were all doing great. Here, ask the workers. But you led them to the beggar stick. So now you're bothered by the Law of Legalization, you've mixed up two laws. The class you're talking about enrolling in the cadastre, the law school, you've got it all mixed up. I can't explain it to you right now. I don't have time. It's an opportunity for those who can't legalize under these regulations, to type in a catastrophe of immovableity. That's enough. Exactly, if they pay towards the city of obligation, they can put it on the market and we've said it a hundred times. They cannot put on the market until the obligations to the city or the municipalities invested in the facility are settled. If the obligations are met, they can be put on the market. That's right. One of you asked. It's a good law, it needs to be used, and it needs to be done as much as it can be. This law can't be ideal. No law is ideal. But believe me, we're making some kind of effort so we can legalize something that can be legalized now. Okay, you'll criticise every law and best law. But what are we gonna do? Here, wait for the Law of Planning and Construction. Don't talk now – the government didn't work. Well, there was a break in the assembly. It is known here that I have passed this law long ago and that he has waited in parliament. It was scheduled at the beginning of the month to be some extraordinary session, so it was cancelled and moved to a regular session. It's all normal. We can't talk now – it's the minister's fault, it's Pera, Žika, etc. I could have done it sooner, but there were no conditions. Here, now the law has come and accept it if you will. If you won't, my God, make a new suggestion. People, you've been in power for so many years, and now you're reading lessons like you've never seen power. I remember, when I was mayor, Šumarac promoted this law with great promulgation and said it was a solution for Serbia and that everything would be legalized. I have great respect and respect for him. I've been to this promotion, I've been working on cities of promotion, etc. It fell apart, then the second, then the third, then the fourth, and here it is, the fifth. But why? Doesn't the people have any money? There's one question here very controversial. Since 2000, gentlemen, the issue of property has not been resolved. All the problems that arise in this matter are property issues. Do you know how many disputes there are because no restitution has been made in time since 2000 and 2001, when it was promised? First it's to be done, then it's to be privatized. How many disputes are there where property-legal relations aren't settled and where can't you legalize under any law? And that's true. Serbia has not solved the property. And now you have many who speak, building here, building there, and then we do not ask whose is it. Please don't explain it to me. You made an investment during the previous government on the green surface and brought permission. When the inspector left on the scene, he crossed over, and you brought it in that it wasn't on the green surface. That's the kind of thing you've done that's funny. I'm trying to help. We're not going to tear it down. We've been trying to change the plans, to bring it into some kind of normal state. I can't sign in the park right now that it's a factory, but we're trying with the city to iron it out, to change their decision, to declare a building zone, etc. So don't, because I've done so much to you as a minister in both Belgrade and Vojvodina. Everything you've been looking for has been done to help you as much as possible and to correct all the problems you've caused. Don't just attack, attack and attack, please. I didn't come here to sanctify myself to anyone, and I'm very sorry. Here, believe me, I didn't replace any of your members when I came as Minister. Some were also arrested, some were arrested, but I didn't replace anyone. Do you believe it? I haven't replaced any of your men at the Ministry. I think everyone should do their job professionally. I haven't replaced any of your inspectors. I expect them to be professionals and I won't do it. I'm not going to politicize my profession, and I've left people to do their job. All those who do well, good for them. There are good workers, I don't want to make mistakes. Maybe someone ordered them to make mistakes, but now they're working really hard and I don't have any problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23526	Please, before I give the replicas, let's establish the basis. Mr Stefanovic appears as head of the parliamentary group. Then you, Mr. Senic, can't, because on behalf of the parliamentary group, only one can. You have a personal replica? Okay. The word has Mr Stefanovic, on behalf of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23527	Minister Ilic, there was everything in what you said in about 16 minutes, but you did not respond to the basic objections of the DS to this law. Certainly, unfortunately, the citizens of Serbia and everyone who had to watch and listen, you brought out things that are totally amazing and I really have to react. How can you, with what right and moral credibility to look at us and say that we have destroyed the construction road industry? You obviously have an internal conflict, Mr. Ilich. You need it with your friend, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, to discuss it with you personally, as well as with Mr. Drobnjak and all the other people who have been running that resort for years. I don't understand what you're trying to accomplish that way. To show you again, through your regimeal media, what kind of us are we, how black, criminal and horrible are we? There's no need. Why aren't you talking about Charanchi? (Velimir Ilic, from the place: What should I say about him? Well, talk to me. I see you know a lot. You know a lot of things, and you don't report them to the D.A.'s office, so then you come to the Assembly and you say so. You want to go to the D.A.'s office now to answer for not reporting a bribe to that gentleman from Dvery? This is where you say people think you're talking to us. Talk to your coalition partners. Don't look at us, look at the SPS or look at New Serbia. What are you looking at us for? Or are you looking at the Dvora with which you are in the coalition in Novi Sad? It can't be done like this in this congregation, Mr. Ilich. No one has offended you, no one has told you anything in person, and no one has mentioned your party, and you allow yourself this sort of thing after so many years of politics. I'm honestly surprised. We've heard a lot of things from you, but something like this, that you're coming with us, I've never seen that before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23528	The word has Minister Velimir Ilic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23529	It is true that Mrkonjic was a minister, but it is true that finance was run by someone else. It is true that the bills are not paid and it is true that they are owed. That's why the companies failed. Here, today a debt has been transferred to this government on various grounds, nine billion. That's what the builders are looking for. It is true that the finance minister deliberately requested that some people from the previous furniture be punished and that it was trial for Sarancic, but you did not prove that he was convicted, yet. No charges have been proven. It is true that he sought criminal charges against Branko Jocic, which violated the Budget Law, two billion, and had the government's decision, but as he could not break the law regardless of the government's conclusion and committed a violation. Now I ask – why did he commit a crime and didn't pay you? It is true that the Roads owe again. You attacked me then as a minister, and what did you leave so much debt? It wasn't me. What'd the companies do? You didn't pay them. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Don't talk to us. To you, you've run the financials. You send it to me, I do the job, and you don't pay. Whoever's holding the bag, he pays. I, as a minister, have a decision, do a project, finish, but if you don't pay, it's a waste. That's why companies are in a difficult situation, and that's why it's a problem. It's not a paid job that's been done. Why did you owe the Enterprise 30m euros? You didn't pay them, and you worked all over Belgrade here, Boulevard, Starr, sidewalks, sewers and behaton records. People broke up with their jobs, and you didn't pay them anything. Why didn't you pay them? How could you work without paying on time? So, we won't be long, I don't want to turn off the subject now, there's a serious law on the agenda here, but please, if you're ever in power, what you order, you have to pay. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23530	The word has the People's MP Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23531	I thank the minister for finally revealing his secret to who took the bribe, and therefore made it clear to the citizens of Serbia that the fight against corruption is selective. Everyone and the media even reported that the official from the Democratic Party, however, turns out to be from Dvori, and since they are your coalition partners in Novi Sad and where not yet, then it is stuck in the drawer, the minister said. Who was the government minister who privatized six road companies? It wasn't me, and I think Velimir Ilic is. You can arrest our members, but you need to get to the judicial verdicts. We have one against Branko Jocic, except he is a member of New Serbia, not the Democratic Party. Let me tell you another truth, and I am glad that the MP from the Serbian Renewal Movement is present, which can confirm it to you. Why did the PZP Kragujevac fail? In 2008, about five kilometers of local roads in the municipality of Rač were made by your order. The employer was a minister, i.e. Serbia's "Roads", a PZP performer, Kragujevac. The reason for the construction of buildings without a building permit is the transfer, then president of the SPO municipality in New Serbia. How come the PPP Kragujevac doesn't fail? You can check the bankruptcy process and see that 78 million dinars are still in bankruptcy today, as a claim.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23532	Replica, Ivan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23533	Mr. Minister, I don't know why you're angry, and why you're reacting like that, I've asked you some things that are important to the construction industry, and this way you respond to insults and proselytism, it doesn't make sense. But this is obviously an indicator of this policy "Let's Start Serbia". That's the Serbia that's moving, and thank you, you've revealed more to the citizens of Serbia today. When you talk about construction projects without permission, you opened one a few months ago in Golia. That road from the Deviants - Goli, with Tomislav Nikolic, you opened the road without a building permit. Now you're calling someone. It really doesn't make sense. Let's deal with real issues. Real topics are what the border unions in your area say. The value of the works is less than 30%. Construction workers' earnings are lower by 30%, industry decline is 25%, and the number of employees in the gray zone has increased by more than 40%. It's during this government, the last 12 months, Mr. Minister. Don't call on the Democratic Party anymore. Whose firm? Here's what we insist on is getting rid of 24 privatisations. We insist on it, but I don't know why you keep quiet about it. Is that what she's silent about to bring down power in Belgrade? Why do you keep quiet about it? Let's work this out. When will this investigation be completed? We were in power during the privatisation of these travel companies of yours, besides, they were dealt with by you and your coalition partners, and don't call us for it anymore, no one, Mr. Minister of Serbia, trusts you, except for your members and supporters, who are directly benefiting from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23534	National MP Branislav Krekic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23535	The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, proposed legislation is one in a series of laws that Mr. Velimir Ilic imposes confusion in this area, to make the matter worse and more difficult. On June 6th of this year, it expired when the legalisation law was to be passed. I ask you, Mr. Minister, if you do not respect the institutions of this country, how do you expect the citizens to do so? Yesterday you appealed here that citizens should respect the inspectors of your ministry because they are an institution on the ground. Personally, I welcome that. But your behavior, Mr. Minister, does not set such an example. Instead of making the bill easier to legalize, you're making it difficult. The most obvious example of this is that Article 3, to be more precise, Article 3 paragraph 1 point 5, for buildings built, or reconstructed or upgraded without a building permit. A construction permit may not be issued subsequently if the facility is constructed, or reconstructed in respect of the purpose and subsistence of the facility, as well as distances from the adjacent objects contrary to the conditions prescribed by the planning documents and provisions of the Regulations on general rules for the parcel, regulation and construction. Dear Minister, do you really think that most illegal objects have been built in accordance with the planning regulations with the provisions on tardiness, the Nessetian rights and the purpose. If that were the case, we wouldn't need the law on legalization, because everyone who built it could get an easy building permit, even before the construction started. Unfortunately, the truth is completely different. It is true that most illegal facilities are not built in accordance with the plan, especially not with respect for neighbouring rights. If this provision remains in this law and the law is passed, not only will you slow down, but you will prevent the legalisation of the largest number of illegal objects. That's why I'm asking you, if that's the case, what's your objective in this bill? If your goal is to resolve the issue of illegal objects, I can tell you that you are on the wrong path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23536	Thank you. National MP Ljuban Panic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23537	Thank you, Your Honor. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, the Honorable President of the Water polo Union, thank Minister Ilic for yesterday, although we disagree in two months. The minister said the government of the Republic of Serbia was unable to submit the law to the Assembly within an adequate period and in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, due to a pre-election campaign and a reality show of the government's reconstruction. Thank you for one statement, and no one mentioned it, and I feel the need given one media blockade that is the most powerful part of your government's execution, one media torture. You, as party president, have expressed concern about the situation in the Serbian media. That they serve today as a terror of political competition and of individuals. You have opened the subject of legalisation for the second time in your current term of office as Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. For the first time in the Law on the Registration of illegally built objects, and then if you open very serious media today, you will see that it was also called the Law on Legalization even though it was not. He only led the state to impose taxes on the people who wrote these objects and nothing else on them. We will not vote for this law because the effects of the law that you have passed in the previous period have not yielded the results that you promised before us here even though we pointed to their faults. You lifted the conversion at the end of last year. We told you, or you answered us with almost the same tone then that we are one criminal only we have not yet forgotten the soldate, you have defeated it in yourself as an epithet that is climbing the opposition. You said that in the next year, two billion blocked euros of investment in your area will come. Mr. Jovanovic read that it is far from true. This law on legalisation transfers jurisdiction to local self-government. The Permanent Conference of Cities and municipalities has given some positive court on this and I would not criticise it, perhaps I would suggest that you as a minister may have been able to enter into this law a commitment as it is in some countries in the environment, to be regularly informed about how this legalisation is going, and that even before us MPs on the resolution boards, you come with concrete results of this law, or that we measure whether this law really gives results or as a hundred billion euros of investment as it is in the end and those two billion euros you promised by abolishing the conversion is just fog or fact. It activates this law and neighbourly rights, which the Constitutional Court did not suggest in its decision. We're introducing a bad practice, predicting temporary integration of an illegal facility to infrastructure. This is about the message. What kind of message we send to citizens and citizens who have legally regulated their rights if we allow someone who has not done so in an adequate way, is attached to the accompanying infrastructure. This and the previous laws you have passed and the reason why we will not support it may well have been described by the vice-president of this government, Mr. Vukic, when he said that the government in Belgrade, which you are so critical of, and every result you are trying to criminalise has changed because of the atmosphere. For the first time in a democratic society that the Constitution, laws, local elections, each election, does something about the atmosphere. My message to you is that the atmosphere among my neighbours is that everything is more expensive in Serbia. The atmosphere is that there is no work, and the atmosphere is that people are waiting for 10 billion euros of promised investment this year. If the atmosphere is what makes us pass laws to court citizens like the set, that is, all of these laws that you have submitted to the National Assembly so far. If the atmosphere is such that it affects you to crossover, then I ask that this atmosphere that is so obvious in Serbia, which is that everything is getting worse, is being replaced or what you promised in the election campaign or the quick elections, so that citizens can rule on the results of all of us. Once again, with all the insults, I would take the opportunity of the minister to really point out once again what you said about the tabloid of Serbia and recognition as one of the leaders of the ruling coalition that this government is not engaged in anything other than marketing and promotion of one who in Serbia pleads to be everything and shine, from the president of the football club to the president of the state, the government, and everything he didn't become in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23538	Replica, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23539	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe that this small remark of a respected colleague, a previous speaker, is for the reason that he promotes himself or himself for one of the officials in the basketball union of Serbia, because when a president named Dragan Gilas is elected in the basketball union, it's okay, it's democratic, it's right, there's no politicizing sport, it's okay, it's great. It was likely then that Dragan Gilas remained president of Serbia's basketball alliance as a businessman, as one of the richest people in the country. Probably, and he deals with politics when he's not president of Serbia's basketball union, and that's another Dragan Gilas. But I don't think it's painful for a former colleague. For the previous speaker, the results are painful. The election results. You know, for every president, including the president of some sports alliance, some people vote, and people voted there, they said with 34 votes to give confidence. You are in pain with the elections that were held in May last year, when people in the elections told you that they would no longer be such a destructive policy that you've led for the past 12 years and that's normal, it's democratic, it's in opposition, so they're in power, so they're back in opposition. What's wrong with that? What's there to live for? Because it's only life and it's only democratic if the DS is in power in Serbia. Well, it's not. You've been saying a lot of things. You certainly feared and threatened the citizens of Serbia that it would happen, so it didn't happen. You have to understand one thing. The citizens told you – no, you have to change your policy, you have to change your performances, and believe me from the position of the SNS believe that it often comes to me to give you time, because the more you talk, the more you make such arguments your rating is getting lower and lower. So we keep going.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23540	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23541	I think the citizens of Serbia gave you support last May seem to me from an astronomical 1.8%. So you didn't win, but we lost. That's the first thing. Another thing, when you say things like that, you need to know that there are other choices where you feel superior and absolutely safe and that's good. It is good for Serbia that you feel that way, because always those who are full of helium before they crack feel very solid, so so will you, gentlemen, and it will happen to you when, except that it will not happen in Serbia, that someone will ever forget this unholy, unscrupulous campaign against political opponents, these lies that you present today, these shameful things that you say and which the chairman is not responding to, I don't mean the president who is now chairing, who have become a normal way of functioning your party, where your MP yesterday is talking about forming a party Gestapo that will follow a political opponent and whether someone is building illegally, where your minister is saying that he is going to create a coordination centre, to label local self-government. Do you think you're only talking about our results, or are we finally going to start talking about your results? These results of yours are unfortunately Serbian citizens, zero. We don't care how much you're going to muddle us, we just want to know when you're going to show once you know how to do something in this country, but I'd like to see one thing to do as a world, except attack on the DS and its president. You're not capable of anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23542	Replica, Ljuban Panic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23543	It's impossible for someone in democracy to be in pain with the results of the election, they can be satisfied or not at that moment, but politics is a league competition, so I can express myself sportingly, since we've entered that kind of dialogue. Sometimes you're the first, and sometimes you're the third. Sometimes you go to the middle of the table, it's important that you're here, that you stay consistent with what you exist for. I'm afraid that you've taken this as a cup and frankly, as your colleague, I'm afraid of what will happen that moment, and one moment will come for you, and how much it will hurt when you fall from that authority. It pains me why promises, pre-election promises based on which you are chosen to lead Serbia today, but no one disputes that and it doesn't come true. I don't give a shit about the election results. It pains me that there is no 10 billion euros in investment in this country. I don't care if that thing from the canal to Thessaloniki didn't hire Serbia. It pains me that there is no department, and you've announced that there will be and I ask every citizen who is watching this, look at any local company, you know that the director of that company is from some party. That hurts, Mr. Granny. I don't think, although you've assumed, based on my height and physical predisposition, that I'm adequate or maybe I'd like to be a member of the basketball union of Serbia, I don't think that the physical predisposition affects this guy. I don't have these ambitions, I have an ambition to come to work every day and look at myself in the mirror in the morning, and when I look at myself, I feel good about what I'm doing here. So what I was saying and what I'm saying is no recommendation for me. As an opposition MP, I remind you that you have promised jobs, 10 billion euros in investments, a channel to Thessaloniki and a better life for Serbian citizens. Of all that, you did with Kosovo what you didn't say you were going to do, there are no jobs and your policy is based on fear of tabloids and persecution of political opponents, and that's true.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23544	Replica, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23545	I believe that an esteemed colleague earlier when he spoke, turned to his MP group, and spoke to his MP group, and when he spoke about helium and the release, he probably thought of himself and his political option. I can accept that the results may be zero in a year. Zero can be a positive zero, but unlike the previous 12 years when it was a thick minus, this is, Mr. Stefanovic's success. As for the mathematics you are referring to, which no one in this room understood, I will remind you of the mathematics of Mr Mirko Cvetkovic, who said here in this parliament - statistically, Serbia has come out of the crisis but its citizens will not feel it. It is the mathematics of DS and then no one understood that mathematics, as you are now, Mr Stefanovic, no one understood. As for this horror and this campaign that no one will forget, do you mean the campaign that was literally since the founding of the SNS? Do you mean the fear campaign, the satanicization of Mr. Nikolic, Mr. Vukic? Do you mean the campaign, the media, and then everything that's been said about these people? As for the results of the work, we're always ready to go to the citizens to tell them what we've done, to measure ourselves. Let's go to the election, we won't change the conditions of choice and ways and laws a few months before the elections. We won't change the conditions, the equations, as you did in the previous period. Let's go to the elections, let's go to the elections in Belgrade, let's go to the Vojvodina elections, let's measure, let's see what the citizens say. Then, when we beat you to death like we did in Zemun by election will, you say – that's little, that's a small pattern. Which sample will be large enough for you?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23546	Mr. Babice, two minutes and 27 seconds. The word has Mr. Stefanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23547	Mr. Granny, not you personally, but you're the best sample. I have to tell you one thing, you've made a big mistake a few times, I have to react. Don't say eight times - let's go to the elections; when you don't know anyone, with anything, with any program, or what you will do, or who you will. You first agree whether you will, as your president says we will not; your party president says we will; the President of the Republic says we will not; the Prime Minister says we will not; your city committee says we will in six months. So, you have to first agree on who's gonna be that hero who's going to get in front of Dragan Gilas, that's the thing. Secondly, we haven't been in power for 12 years, but what we were in power was the most positive economic, tax, security, foreign policy, whatever account you want in relation to what it is now, because the numbers show that you have already passed five billion in debt in relation to this Mirko Cvetkovic and the campaign has never been led against, in the way it is now headed against DS, where we are a minority anti-state element in the emerging dictatorship, only that our youngsters went to Mr. Nikolic's apartment to see where those two aras he got during the bombing of Serbia, but it wasn't monstrous, it was simply that citizens saw where the man lives and from which they paid it earned it. I don't see what was monstrous about it. Since you like calculus and mathematics, calculate the next thing, so tell the Serbian citizens, on the DS side, what exactly did you advance, what was the progress in which you started Serbia, what was better, in numbers? That you're not just opening our investments that we've made in the previous period, so you're opening them today, you're welcome normally, today in Ojaks, tomorrow who knows where, but it's time to see something that you've finally done in this country, if you know how to count it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23548	The word has Zoran Babic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23549	I'll start with the number. In 2008, unemployment in Serbia was 13.6%. In four years, the great government, these great, I don't know how to describe it, all of which benefited not only Serbian citizens, unemployment came to 26.1%) in May 2012. Are those the results? Is that official statistics? Is that a fight for those jobs, so 200,000 new jobs, so we don't know what to do? Unemployment in Serbia is now at a catastrophicly high level, slightly more than 24%. If you think that we are satisfied with this level and that we have managed to reduce something, we are not satisfied and that is why the very brave political announcement and promise that has been made and the task put before this Serbian government is to reduce the percentage to below 20%. Since you already know how many government-level responsibilities these are, how come you don't know how many Belgrade-level responsibilities are? How come you don't know, you have all the levers of power, you have all the mechanisms, how come for Belgrade alone we don't know? How on December 31st 2010, Mirko Cvetkovic said the level of Belgrade's debt was 72% of all local self-government duties, and not Belgrade's 72% of Serbia, and at that point amounted to just over 470m euros. A few months later, the mayor came out with a 580 million figure. Based on what you said to Mr. Stefanovic the other day, you went out and told him - 398m euros. Do you think that a little frowning and a little serious attitude, such a man's serious attitude, so you think he'll trust you people. Make a deal for once, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23550	The word is made by MP Radoslav Milovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23551	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister, fellow Members and fellow MPs, we have before us a proposal for a new law on legalisation that will unfortunately slow down the process of solving the problem of buildings without construction and use because it introduces the obligation to submit additional documentation. This additional documentation for citizens and businesses means a new cost. The law also contains a number of confusing members who could create problems in the application of the law. The bill states that all who wish to legalise the facility will have to submit two new documents. The first project was carried out by the facility, the second is proof of the regulation of the relationship with respect to the payment of land planning fees. In order to create a project, respected citizens, a executed facility, you will have to hire professionals and companies, which will represent a new cost for you even though there has been a promise that legalisation will be free of charge. What's inaccurate in the bill? The Authority responsible for the organisation of legalisation shall require applicants to be completed within a period of no longer than one year from the entry into force of this law. This means that if the law enters into force for example on 15 October this year, all citizens must complete the documentation by 15 October 2014. Where can there be a problem here? If, say, the competent authority sends a notice to the citizens only in September of next year, in which case the citizens will have a short deadline to collect the documentation. With this poor formulation, the competent institutions were left at will when they would do their part of the job. The Anti-Corruption Agency delivered an opinion on this law and held on Article 10 of this Law that the criteria laid down by the provisions of this article should be more concrete in order to ensure that the criteria adopted are uniform and thus all owners of illegal objects are in the same position. The provision allowing units of local self-government to prescribe a reduction of compensation should constitute an exception to the rule that all owners of the facilities pay compensation and that it applies to all owners of the facilities that meet the conditions laid down in Article 10(4) regardless of which unit of local self-government they have built up. In this way, anyone entitled to a reduction in compensation could exercise their rights no matter where they have a built facility. Article 11 obliges the units of local self-government to bring a general act closer to regulating the criteria for determining the compensation, the conditions under which the right to reduce compensation can be exercised, as well as the conditions and manner of payment and compensation. In its opinion on the assessment of the risk of corruption, the Agency considers that the conditions under which the right to reduce compensation, rather than the general act of the unit of local self-government, should be laid down. In that way, all those who fulfil these conditions would exercise their rights in the same way and would not depend on the will of the unit of local self-government. My question to you is, has this law ever been in line with similar laws in countries in the region? I shall give a good example of Poland where free legalisation of agricultural facilities has been carried out. What's the effect of such legalization? Poland today has one of the most developed farms in Europe. Since we've been waiting six months for the government to be reconstructed and the minister has admitted a little while ago what's the reason he's late to pass this law, I'm asking the final question -- who's going to suffer if the effects of this law are bad for our citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23552	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23553	Mr. President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, it is obvious that there is no ideal law or at least an ideal law, so probably this bill is not ideal either, but I hope together we can do what is best at this point. It is obvious that so far the legal solutions have not done their work nearly as it was in the case of this previous law, if I am not mistaken in 2003. He failed to fulfill what he was brought to, so we in Serbia today have this condition that counts with millions of illegal objects. What problems people have with the application of this law and in the profession and ordinary people, it is known to everyone, but in accordance with the legal solutions of local self-government, their decisions are closer to regulating these laws, so that local self-governments have regulated it in this way and then in certain local self-governments, as in local self-government, you have a situation where ordinary people come to the counter or when they try to legalize their own object, he faces incredible problems that stem from those tiny small-scale officials and those who call themselves men of profession, just being legal or some other, and he usually gives up on another, third step, unless there is some imperative that he has to do so because of mortgaged objects, some long or something third. For example, you have a situation in the local self-government in Cačka that 25,465 requests were filed from 1995 to 2010, and that only 3,200 were resolved by 2012. So it's the effect of your authority for these 13 years back. So many people managed to legalize their facilities even though they were in a very mood, it's obvious, as soon as the 25,000 demands were filed. I'll tell you in a minute what happens to an ordinary man when he gets to that counter. One man bought in my local self-government an object that was declared bankrupt, which was evaluated and evaluated by all the services and tried to legalize it. Then they told him, you're missing one piece of paper, so you're missing another piece of paper, and then you're missing another piece of paper, so the guy starts at the beginning to collect one piece of paper. Then it comes down to the fact that these objects have even a building permit, they have a useful permit, but for God's sake, it's not clear again how it happened, so they take the man back to the level of legal regulation that someone from the urban or the Ministry of Finance, or the tax administration, confirms it. He also brings in confirmation that he paid taxes on the transfer of absolute rights at a price that was on a public ad, and then decides to alienate that same facility, to sell it, and then he has to have evidence of that, related to the right to legalisation and property rights. Then that's not enough, but some tax officer has to come out to do a new assessment, so when he comes out and makes a new assessment, he says – that facility isn't worth that much, worth it, believe it or not, 15 times more, and only six months ago, that same administration accepted the price from a public ad. Then the man starts to complain, then he comes to the next instance, and the next instance says, "No, it's all right, give it back to the first one, and the first one says it's wrong again, and then they come to the court, because the buyer won't pay it 15 times more, as the learned tax officer claims it's worth it." This ends with the judge of the municipal court in the local self-government, making a decision in Cačka on the cancellation of trade, and you reach the tax officer, and the tax officer says - the judgment of the municipal court in Chačka does not oblige me, you simulated the job, tax times two then you again complain as a regular man to some regional centre in Kragujevac. The regional center of Kragujevac again says it's wrong. Then the tax officer says to you, "I will write it like this, and God help you." That simple man then reaches the Supreme Court that exists at that moment, which begins to solve and in the meantime you rename that Supreme Court to the Administrative Court, and all of this lasts for five years. After five years, when he succeeds in obtaining a solution from the Administrative Court that he is right in spite of a conviction by your authority and your administration, then he comes back to your tax officer who again requests a statement from an ordinary man that the verdict of the administrative court in this case would register as valid and that this man would therefore register as owner. Believe it or not, such ordinary people give up after a year or two, unless they are concerned with existential issues, so that the application of the Law on Legalisation on a practical case is practically inconclusive, even for those who are trying to do so to the end. In the end, they prepare you to send a commission for technical reception, which somewhere in the local self-government they put together from a pensioner and a statistician who works at a company, a construction engineer who works at a third company, who has an old car, and then they can't agree when they can get out on the ground, and that simple man has to wait for a week, two, three and all that when it comes to a close end, then a new problem pops up, so that people usually give up legalization. That's why you were so successful in applying this previous law, that people were giving up on legalization. Even the text of the law itself wasn't so bad, and I hope that this one will be significantly improved against that one. But it's obvious that the problems were in the people you've put in a variety of places to enforce the law that you yourself have passed. So if someone didn't have the imperative to succeed in something, he certainly couldn't legalize his own facility. In the same way, a variety of machinations have been liquidated by large companies. You know how conditions have been set that someone must have some kind of million-euro or two-euro caps just to get out of the competition. It's something called your ability, because one of you said who's capable of surviving or staying. In the end, let me finish this story with a quote from a esteemed colleague, Srdjan Milivojevic, who said he was the only one with us called a thief capable. If that's the case, I congratulate you. It's not like that with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23554	National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, right on line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23555	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, I thought some people in this room would take the advice of their colleagues and take the advice of smarter people. Obviously, there is not much discipline in all MP groups. But when I said that there was a thief in our house - a capable man, I meant Serbia. I'm glad to hear that some say that Serbia is not their country and that they have a spare country and that they treat it that way, and last time, in 1999, and now. But don't tell me, but tell the citizens of Serbia who is your reserve country, if this isn't with you. What about you? Is that why you treat Serbia like you occupied it on May 6th and that it's your war prey? Serbia is not your war prey. To quote your party president: "It is not Serbia's fist that teeth are every crow that lands here." Or Serbia's current president: "It's not Serbia's hand to the teeth to scratch everyone's horses." Take care of what you say in parliament. If this is not your country, if this is not your home, then tell the citizens of Serbia who is your anthem, who is your home and what is your country. I understand why you treat Serbia like this. Because it's obviously not your country. Where you came from, it's probably a different word. But tell it to the citizens of Serbia in the election campaign. Say, we from SNS have a reserve country, so we released the NATO Pact in 1999 to Kosovo; the Patriarchy is left to us by Grandpa, that's why we turned the Pećko Patriarchy into a parking lot for NATO tanks. "Lord, tell Mr. Vulin that in the evening when it is dark, then when he is asleep, let Milutin come to him in his sleep, and when he asks him, "Is there a White Church of Samodrež, or is there a Grace I have raised for myself, so that when Milutin comes to you in a dream, or when Lazarus comes to you in a dream, and you tell him whose sheep are on Gazimestan, and tell him what you were in 1999. (President: Time, Mr. Milivoevich. ) Look at yourself in the mirror, and when you answer those questions, talk to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23556	Replica, Alexander Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23557	Mr. Milivoevich, only we have a thief called a capable man. That's what you said, but did you think of you, your village, your city, your client, that's your problem. When I said and quoted what you said, I meant your statement. And with us, there's a capable man called capable. The thief is a thief. I don't have a problem telling a thief he's a thief and he's capable of being capable. That applies precisely to my entire country and my entire people. They're very capable and working. Honoring exceptions that consider themselves capable, and thieves are. Well, good luck to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23558	Replica, Mr. Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23559	Mr. President of the Assembly, since the MP spoke directly to me, when I said – with us, I am sitting in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and is with me "for us" – Serbia. Because this is not where my people and your people live, this is where the citizens of Serbia live. Neither is it my people, nor is it your people. Nor is this my country, nor is it your country. It's all our country. It's obviously from your statement that it's not your country, especially from your behaviour, and it's obvious that you have another, backup country. It's your right. You are neither the first nor the last to have a reserve country and a reserve country, and Serbia has been treated as if it were temporary here. It's your legitimate right. But let those of us who do not have a reserve land and whose country we have, try to make it a decent place for the lives of decent people, where people will understand when we tell them what it is and what it is with you. Let us tell you that you do not fight crime by amnestying criminals and handing out guns to them, and then criminals win six and a half thousand police members and we get to the black pillars of EU shame. Then Europe slaps our heads, and our cheeks are brimming. The applause that Europe hit you the other day was not such a round of applause, but a round of applause on your cheeks, and that applause hurts us, because you have a spare land and you don't know what it is about us and what it is about you. That's why I told you. But since nothing is sacred to you, nothing sublime, you have the words: patriotism, Kosovo and Metohija, country, religion, ideology, ideas – it's all for sale with you. And such honest ones, feel free to run this country. But those words come to Serbian citizens and they're judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23560	Please, Mr. Milivoevich, don't insult other MPs because it doesn't make sense to say that they sell those things you listed, because it's really offensive to the MPs. Replica, Alexander Radojevic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23561	You're weak in faith and thin in reasons. What I thought and what my party meant, the people said. What you did and what the people thought, he also said. That's why there's so many of us, and there's so many of you. And there will be even less of you, just keep talking and we'll keep working and try to get something that you've brought to hopelessness and to bring it back to ourselves, to make some hope for this people, my people, your people, or ours, to give the opportunity to work fair and live, not to live on sale or sell or steal what our ancestors have done with severe torment and great sweat.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23562	Mrs. Karavidic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23563	Thank you, Mr. President. Just tell me how much time my MP group has left. (President: 11 minutes. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'd just like to focus on a few things that got my attention yesterday. The first thing is that you said that your job was made easier by the Constitutional Court making exactly the decision it made, so you didn't have much space or idea how to edit this law differently. You also said that legalisation is done in this way almost identical legalization that is conducted in the ordinary process. If that's the case, I don't understand why the provisions of this law relating to exactly the way, or the legalisation process are not clearer and why are they not more precise? I think they're art. 21, 22 and 24 in collegiate with each other. You said to specifically say what was wrong with the law. Personally, I think you just did. The 21st and the 22nd aren't good, they're not valid. They're chaotic, they're indeterminate and they're inaccurate, so I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, what's the order of the legal process? What will a citizen do when he reads such chaoticly written provisions of these members of the law, and what is the first, and what is the last thing a citizen who wants to legalise his object should do? We don't see deadlines in this bill. We don't see deadlines for administration, and that's the same administration that you said last night in your final presentation that the biggest problem in a process called legalization is the administration. I think there should have been room for these laws to set deadlines for the administration, and not only deadlines but also criminal provisions. That's exactly what our trom and slow administration would make her do her job. That would also make the process of legalisation easier for the citizen. For example, in Article 21(3), what administrations do and whether and within what time-limit the applicant shall notify the applicant of whether the prescribed documentation has been submitted at the request. That's the first question. Then I ask you, within what time does the competent authority inform the owner of the building facility of the existence of the possibility of legalisation? Article 24 states only the obligations of the applicant on the deadline within which it is required to provide evidence of the submission of applications for the arrangement of mutual relations with the organisation governing the building land. Chaotical deadlines are also prescribed. It is unclear whether the deadline for the submission of complete documentation is one year from the entry into force of this law or six months, as set out in Article 22(2). 1. I would like to ask you, or an example, that the deadline for supplementing the documents is one year from the adoption of the law, for example, October 2014. Let's say that the competent authority informs the applicant in July 2014 that there is a possibility of legalisation and that it has six months to supply the necessary documentation. I ask you - what is the deadline for the applicant's request, is it October 2014 or January 2015? In short, members of 21st and 22nd are logically not attached to each other, but are contrary to each other, not simplifying the legalisation process, but unnecessarily complicated. I ask you, Mr. Minister, if a citizen who wants to legalise his house must, with the request he has submitted, now taxing everything he needs and what is given in the law: a geodetic video, a project, proof of property rights, then wait for an undefined deadline from the competent authority to receive notice of the possibility of legalisation, when he receives notice of the possibility of legalisation, the applicant shall have a 60-day deadline to provide evidence of the application to regulate their relations with the undertaking, or with an organisation that regulates the building land, then, pay an administrative fee and, if it is sufficiently valid, within 15 days, receive a solution to the building permit. I ask you, can it happen that a citizen who applied on time, about the deadline, takes a geodetic video, does the project in three copies, takes proof of the right of property, but then the competent authority who says he has no legalization? Was the notification by the competent authority of the possibility of legalisation supposed to be the first document? That's what I'm asking on behalf of the citizens, as an MP. Is this the first document to be attached after a citizen's request, in order to expose later the cost of projecting, the cost of getting out of geometry and other things? I'd like you to clear that up for me. Maybe I'm wrong. I think it's far more complicated and uncertain and for citizens the applicant requests if there are no deadlines given to the administration. Simply, no member who determines how to legalise does stand a deadline for administration. Given that the subject matter of this law is to apply for legalisation to submit the home of the month 2010, I expect the authorities to have at least an analysis of the structure of the objects that are in the process of legalisation, so I would like you to tell us how many housing facilities there are, how many auxiliary rooms, how many business spaces or other facilities there are. Are you going to tear down 600,000 objects that won't be legalized? That's one question. Personally, I don't think this law will solve the legalisation issue, and I think it's the only effective way to get legalisation done until the end of time for the state to implement legalisation with the help of local administrations, and that's probably going to be the subject of some other law, or some other time. Then we may become organized society, in this way and in this law certainly not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23564	According to the Rules of Procedure, the People's MP Srdjan Milivojevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23565	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, I'm advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rules 104 and 108. When it comes to Article 104, I'm not mad at you for not giving me the right to reply, it's your discretionary right, but I think if you want to cultivate democracy, you should be careful who starts a debate first and who wants to answer it, so it would be appropriate that since my colleague first mentioned me and opened a circle of replicas, that you let me do that round of replica and end it. When it comes to article 108, I'm not asking for a statement by this article either, but you are still responsible for the session's order. But, well, maybe some MPs are more allowed and others are less allowed. I still know that truth is the best cure against slander, so it's calm to me about everything I've said to my conscience. At night, when I sleep, I dream of no Lazarus, no Milutin, no Stefan of Decansky. It is your right to, taking care of the order in the assembly session, not give me the right to the replica. Those whose conscience is restless, they will answer for themselves. Those who do not have a calm conscience will also answer for themselves.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23566	I've been working all day, and I've allowed replicas more than once today. You've had in the previous few debates of the replica and the authorized representative of the parliamentary group and the head of the parliamentary group, but I understand in principle. Thank you and everyone who's found the measure. I think today's debate, no matter what, was one serious debate about the law, and I hope that we will end up in that spirit. The word is made by MP Mujo Mukovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23567	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us the Law on Legalization. I'm not going to say anything new if I say that the matter treated by this law is actually one big problem in our country, that this problem has been accumulated for the last 30 years and that its resolution has been tried in more than five attempts to pass this law. On 11 September 2009, the Law on Planning and Construction entered into force. As we heard in this debate and in the opening presentation of Mr. Minister, the Constitutional Court has put almost all provisions concerning the legalization of illegally built objects out of force. Hence, it has been estimated that it is necessary to pass a brand-new law on legalisation. This law is not ideal. I understand particularly the opposition MPs who find numerous objections. If we had any draft laws ahead of us, there would be such discussions and there would be objections to it. The problem is that it's very difficult for any bill, to put it that way, to end illegal construction. But here we have to be honest and say that at least this government is to blame for this situation, that all previous governments, if I'm not mistaken, since 1997 was the first attempt to pass such a law, all previous governments have cooked up this state that we are in today. Minister Ilic, not only by this law, but also by the bill that we passed in March, the Law on the entry into the cadasar of the immobilities of illegally built objects, really had a good intention. First of all, I appreciate his intention to do something about it anyway, because it would be the easiest thing to do and let it go as it has ever been to happen in this area, to put it that way, it's a mess. I appreciate the law on enrolment in a cadastre of illegally built objects is a very important law. He often interferes with this law on legalisation in public, and this is a chance for those people who do not have the means to go into regular legalisation procedure, and unfortunately our people, Serbia's citizens are in such a material state that one vast majority, I say, therefore, over 90% of Serbian citizens, are barely able to put an end to what they have, and most of the time these incomes are spent on nutrition, so that no one can think of being singled out for anything else, and especially for legalising with the torment of family-occupied facilities. So I'm talking about most citizens. Of course, with that majority, 10% of those who have illegally built and committed crimes, and they have not been forced to do so for material reasons. When one law is made, when one law is written simply it must apply to all. I see first and foremost Minister Ilic's good intentions, and if we add that there is also a brand-new Construction Planning Act that will solve these remaining ones, let me say, cases, people who built after 11 September 2009 and who did not submit an application for legalisation by 11 March 2010. These facilities, too, are estimated to have quite a few. I appeal here to Mr. Minister that both must be taken care of and that there must be some way to introduce these objects into legal legal flows. What's the point here? Given that we have received a date for the start of negotiations and that our country, during this term of office, is moving rapidly towards European integration, we also have a commitment in this area. There is a unique cluster of Europe, and we must at least register all the facilities on the ground, we must put them in the immobiliser of immovableity, and we must thus become part of the single disaster of Europe. All those who criticise this law are free to say, they don't have enough understanding for the lack of property that has hit our citizens, and they're probably fine, and they don't know what the situation is in the field. I can tell you that in the Sanjanese municipalities, there are also a large number of illegally erected objects, people were building with severe pain. Over 30 years, many of them singled out for housing, never being able to get an apartment that many received and bought for 30 to 40 euros. Where was the Constitutional Court then to declare those decisions illegal when people got apartments from the state? Mostly these apartments were received by managers and privileged layers of the population, and now when it comes to the need for the poor to legalise residential and business facilities, we are all against and we are calling for decisions of the Constitutional Court. So what's most important here, I'm not saying that this law is ideal. I appeal to the minister that at least in the area where he has the authority, in the services of the catastra, where there is not enough qualified labour, where there are not enough graduates who would work on the implementation of this law, if there is no local self-government, teach everyone to come to a better reception when they apply to the cataster, that people there do not refuse to do any small things and say – you do not have the right to enroll, etc., to take advantage of these opportunities, so those who can go to a regular legalisation process, and those who do not have the means, should at least take advantage of the possibility that the Law on registration in the cataster of the immobilities of illegally built objects. We're not going to put it all down, but we're going to significantly improve the situation. I hope after the adoption of this roof law on planning and construction and after the complete government, in all areas, and not only is a hot potato transferred to one ministry, helps to make it as simple as possible, not to make up the process of getting a building permit, but to do so as successful countries in the region and Europe. I hope that in this area we will finally seduce order and that it will be for the benefit of the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23568	The word is made by the People's Messenger, Jovan Mehandzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23569	Dear President, Mr. Minister Ilic, your basic thesis in today's and yesterday's presentation and the proposal of this law is to introduce order into the area of urbanism. That can't be further from the truth and I'll tell you why. The concepts of value and professional ambiguity speak precisely in favour of the conclusion that this law will not help to introduce order into this area at all. On the contrary, on the contrary. On the expert side, as my colleagues have already said, countless times, you are too late to propose this law. The deadline for the adoption of this law expired on 7 June 2013. The explanations you've given for this delay are extremely unacceptable when you essentially look at what you've said. You explained that the biggest problem for efficiency in the process of legalisation is the administration itself which does not act effectively enough. On the other hand, you do not prescribe the deadlines in which this law is to be followed, nor do you prescribe sanctions for this non-compliance or overstepping of the deadlines. I don't think that's the way to put order in this area. I'd like to ask you to suit your actions in future words. You're abolishing the possibility that local self-government, on behalf of citizens, is conducting a legalisation process. It's an excellent provision of the previous law. It would be extremely honest and so gentlemanly to admit it, because it's not a sin that the previous government did something right. We will see if you have the best interest of Serbian citizens in mind, when we consider the amendments in which we propose that this provision be incorporated into the law, and then by refusing or accepting the amendments we have proposed, you will prove whether you have the best interest of Serbian citizens in mind. Let me finish by reminding you of the situation that the whole of Serbia saw and in which you were the main actor in 2007, and when I quote, you explained to your people on the highway how you would tolerate stealing. With that in mind, I'm wondering if you'll apply the same principle today in your portfolio, in what you call the introduction of order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23570	The time for SNS and DS parliamentary groups has been spent. Next reported, according to this, is MP Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23571	Mr Minister, in these two days we have heard many policies, many concrete remarks about the text of a law that has a good intention that we as a parliamentary group do not suspect, but it seems to us that what Miss Olgica Batic said in her opening statement as the first authorised representative in front of our parliamentary group that speaks in the National Assembly, that these are about the guidelines in which everyone is speaking and it seems to us that our MP group has well assessed when she said that the problem that was inherited in your ministry, the problem not that you have created, or your predecessors, is a decade-long problem that has been conditioned by various and diverse factors that have made it seem to me that no one has mentioned modern Europe knows. Even a verdict by the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg in a two-decade dispute between the two citizens on the challenge of wild construction, says in one part that modern and civilized Europe does not know the term "wild construction". That is why we, among other things, and for a million other reasons, have been as a right-wing party since the beginning of Europe and European values. But we are, as in everything and in this in a negative sense, at the top of some blacklist. The Kaludjerica settlement, part of the Vozdovac municipality, is the largest wild settlement, i.e. the largest settlement of illegal construction in the Balkans. It's similar with the Zemun field, it's similar with some Monden places like Dedinj, or Kopalnik, or Zlatibor. Unlike those with a lung pocket that they were building illegally at these locations, they were building others there. But, I say, in addition to the lack of care of the state, poor legal regulations, complex legal procedures, corruption, lack of care of inspection services, population migration, socialist industrialisation, the collapse of the start of urbanism when they began to appear in Serbia, wars, inflation, turbo folk culture, all of this affected that today we have what we have in Serbia. Can this law, which regulates this matter in a valid way in many provisions, fully heal and resolve this situation? According to us, it can be partly and it seems to us that by accepting some correct amendments, this law in its final version can to some extent prevent the further production of chaos, and what we think is the right solution is not even a demolition. In addition to the announced law on planning and construction, we need recovery. We have a series of built illegal objects that do not have a water network, infrastructure, roads, adequate connections, legal ones, etc., but all this requires huge financial resources and therefore some major effects of this law should not be expected in a short period of time, because the problem is decades-old. On the other hand, the law on legalisation, in addition to the out-of-state project, the regulation of construction land, the payment of administrative fees and everything else that will go to the burden of all citizens entering the legalisation process, also indicates that every citizen will be exposed to large financial costs, which is quite normal, logical and expected, but in the time in which we live today in Serbia, I believe that a large part of the citizens will submit legalisation requirements, but it seems to me that in the end, few will still succeed in bringing the legalisation to an end. But what's good, which we don't argue with you, you're dealing with big problems, that's to get into this process. I believe that in the discussion of details we will influence, with our argument, to accept many amendments to our parliamentary group, to somehow draw a line with this wild construction and to start to create as a society in the future an ambience in which every citizen will feel satisfied, because no one is satisfied if he lives in an illegal settlement, in an environment that is not in an urban, aesthetic and coherent building block. As a result, people share, among other things, in the settlements they live in, on those living in urbanally coherent areas of the settlement or on those living in settlements that have a peorative omen. Mr. Minister, we, as an opposition party, will approach this law and any future laws of this government without any political persuasion. It seems to me that our parliamentary group is one of the few parliamentary groups that has spoken of this law and all the previous laws, and we have not mentioned politics at all, nor who has been where, nor who has done anything, nor who has said anything to whom. We don't think the citizens of Serbia are interested in that at all... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... I end up, that the citizens of Serbia are all over their heads, that they expect concrete solutions from us, and we will discuss details and offer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23572	Thank you. National MP Verica Kalanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23573	The Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was interesting to listen to the previous two days of this sizzling of the past. And for us, it was a challenge to get involved, but we resisted it, and as the U.S.S., we decided to deal with, not with the past, but with the present, live today, and the future. Let's see what we can do next. What's the present in the building? If we look at what the profession and statistics say today, the situation in the building has never been more difficult. When our politicians, as well as I think of the politicians from the URS, as well as from the government and parliament, stand before the citizens, with their faces down – the situation in Serbia is difficult, we barely have any economic growth. That's right. We barely had any positive economic growth in the first six months, even though we had great results in the automotive industry and the components. Why? Because the building was that finalist. The decline in the construction industry is 40% compared to last year. Compared to last year. I'm not talking about 10 years ago, five years ago, I'm talking about last year. When you enter any other area, when you enter what we call employment, new jobs, new investors, everyone says -- in the building it's very bad, we go around the counter a lot, we have a very big bureaucracy, we have a skeletal system, we have to change it. And, Mr. Ilic, you and I have participated in such conversations. These builders we met with, and when I say "you" I mean, in the most positive sense, and professional associations and private firms and companies in restructuring and trade unions and prominent individuals told us – you know, there are big problems in the building, but we have to get into a comprehensive reform and legislation that we have because they're not good, let's start a subgroup. It seems to me that we wanted to start some subgroups that dealt with the laws. On the other hand, my dears, we have heard for days that we need essential, thorough, profound, painful reforms. We in the URS say, yes, we are ready for them because we want modern Serbia. Since the situation in the building is very difficult, very, very problematic today, we expected these essential reforms to start from the building area, where it is most difficult and, with great joy, we welcomed that the autumn session begins with the essential reforms in the area of the building. Our disappointment was that, as the first law, we got something that was not essential, which is cosmetics, which is a repeated law that has the intention of resolving legalisation in Serbia. No matter how you understand my words, Minister Ilichu, the law is bad. It is bad because in Serbia's territory we will have different law enforcement, because you have not made a reform, because you have not taken responsibility to say – the law has this framework, it is not agreed, it must be implemented equally in the territory of the whole country. I was called by the presidents of the municipalities, those who were responsible and asked: "Verice, you who have been in all the municipalities in Serbia many times, what do you suggest? In the next six months alone, we need to get the rulebook. Are we going to go through populism and include a very large number of categories from this unsuspecting member who won't pay full price, but we're going to have to touch them? We don't have any money for that. Or are we going to go down the road to determine by the right criteria, the right framework criteria, where we're going to give the right prices for building land compensation? “ That’s the fourth point, Minister, which you predicted in the legalization process. If that's the case, we won't be popular, nor will we have cheap legalization. On the contrary, we will have expensive legalization and the citizens will be disdainful. Shall we transfer the hot potatoes to someone else and say, "Let's set it up in 20 years and let those who come behind us handle all this stuff?" But we don't have credit offices. How do we assess the risk? How do we know who to give five to, to whom ten, to whom 15 years? That's why I think we're going to have legislation to be implemented in Subotica in one way, in Vranj on the other, and in Tutin and Novi Pazar on the third. Also, that we will have different prices and that we will have different scopes, precisely because we did not have the courage to say - this is a framework, we are an organised state, we want to have EU standards, we want to set frameworks in which we are going to move in the legalisation process. There's one more thing people don't care about. If we had illegally built buildings, and we had, if we had illegally built whole buildings, including settlements, why have we now amnested those who built them? We say – natural persons in certain facilities pay in the legalisation process for their apartments a fee for building land. Isn't that double payment? They paid the investor who got rich on their backs, and now they pay if they want to be legalized, to inherit their children's apartments, to just re-pay construction land fees. Finally, one specific question, Minister, for you, precisely because we have undefined views, undefined laws, undefined criteria. While I was sitting here in the parliamentary bench one of the investors asked me a question for you and asked me to pass it on. It's about an investor from Belgrade. In the previous period, he bought land, has a property list on which some of the former owners were objected. The D.A. dismissed his objection. The City Department of Construction in Belgrade will not issue a local permit. They say, until a court dispute is settled. In other cities in Serbia, they do not accept such views, but they issue local permits to start building, because they say everyone has the right to sue. If the lawsuit was dropped, why wouldn't a local permit be issued? He spoke to the second-degree organ, to you, Mr. Ilic, six months ago. He didn't get any answers. Pray that you give a concrete answer today. You know, it's not about an ordinary man, it's about someone who's willing to invest five million euros. Let's go through the little examples, if we can't get through the big ones, start construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23574	Thank you. National MP Jelena Travar Miljevic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23575	Thank you. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about subsequently obtained building and use permits and when we talk about the Law on Legalisation, which I personally consider an extorted solution, I don't think this is the best possible solution that could be offered to citizens. Although, as good as one law is, it depends on the possibility of its direct application. What I would like to appeal to is to coordinate both the methodology and the terminology of writing the law in the future. In the course of reading this law, I have a few concerns and somewhere I hope to get concrete answers. In the case of Article 2(2), under point 1), that is to say, Article 2 is defined for which buildings cannot be subsequently issued a building permit. The article shall determine whether the land is unfavourable for construction. My question is, when someone brings a copy of the immovableity list, on what basis will that be determined? Is it based on that column that speaks of the type of land or the way of use and the cadastrian class? I also have a question in Article 8, where a commission is spoken of by the competent authority for issuing building permits. Is this about the technical reception committee or is it some other commission? If it's not a technical reception committee, what act, or which one will define exactly who makes the commission mentioned? I also have one discrepancy, or I notice a discrepancy between Articles 7 and 16. Article 7 mentions business facilities, and then in Article 16 production facilities. If it's possible, I'd like to get a more concrete explanation tonight. What creates a particular concern for me, like someone who comes from the rural environment, like someone who comes from the municipality of Zitiste, where 70% of the population deals with agriculture, is that we don't mention economic facilities anywhere in the law. I found in the explanation that the sublegal act would be detailed objects that could not be subject to legalization - objects in the country built at a time when no construction permit needed to be obtained, etc. Every sublegal act that needs to be passed, which is not defined under the law, I don't know how binding it is. Also, when we talk about economic facilities, and we have them defined and in the current Law on Planning and Construction and in the Rules on General Rules for parceling, regulation and construction, I ask a question – what if someone comes to legalize the facility, and not everything is in accordance with the Regulation on Sanitary Conditions for the Breeding and Keeping of Animals, Pupcars? Then how are people going to react at the bar? You know, we're talking about the existence of people in the country. We're talking about how we need every man in the country because the villages are shutting down. If we haven't already done it in this law, I really don't know how we're going to legalize economic facilities any further. I firmly believe that people who have economic facilities deserve the opportunity to legalize the facility, to let it go into traffic tomorrow, to maybe achieve certain benefits or financial support, either from banks or the state, to improve their production, business and to create really better conditions in the country. But somewhere I want to hope that that roof law, which defines the area of construction, will pay particular attention to the buildings that are being built in the country, because I think we deserve it somewhere. I also expect this comprehensive reform, because we have equal problems both in the village and in the city. Nobody likes to walk from counter to counter. For Serbia, it is a luxury to lose jobs, for Serbia it is a luxury to waste time. One of the best examples in Serbia when it comes to investment is precisely "Fiat", which was realised and thanks to Mr Mladjan Dinkic. The contract was signed in 2008. Imagine when it takes us 279 days as a state to issue a building permit. Is that a model to attract investors? Are all these models to attract investors and keep people in the country? I really don't think they are and I urge that in the next law and the next legal solutions we have a more comprehensive approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23576	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23577	Dear Presidency, Mr. Ministers and Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, over the Law on Legalisation in the debate in principle, I will only talk about the spirit of the law. It's actually what the U.S.S. has the most serious objection to. The complaint was made by the head of the parliamentary group and the president of the URS, Mr Mladjan Dinkic, formulated in a metaphorical assessment of "cuker vaser" or you sugar guide. You have no reason to be angry with this kind of objection, because it is the least of your objections personally to Mr. Minister and the Resort Ministry. It is an objection that essentially speaks of political readiness and government policy to put political decision and will in the root of the decision to overcome and solve the problem of illegal construction in Serbia, and the problem is enormous. This is one of the biggest problems of this society that actually speaks the evil spirit of lawlessness to which a spirit of law with a "cucker vaser" character really cannot be opposed in a serious and acceptable way. They also spoke of colleagues of the LDP and colleagues from the SPS in a sociological way on this subject, saying that it was a phenomenon of huge exchanges and a very deep root, that it was actually a sociopathological phenomenon of civilization importance for our society. Then it's really not the answer to that question in a few technical ways, even if it's both professional and administratively correct, which can really answer the following situation. In the process of joining the EU, urban construction standards in Serbia are growing, we are actively raising them in line with the civilizational movements in the environment, and we have around us an inheritance of construction that is substandard in terms of its time of creation, let alone the raised bar and the increased standards of urbanism and construction. What do you do? Well, there's not much room. The principled decision either goes towards sanctioning a criminal offence or goes towards the uncritical supremacy of a committed crime. The principled decision on this issue is more difficult than any other political issue in Serbia and has enough capacity to bring down a government that would decide to deal with this issue in principle. That's why there's not a lot of room left for you, Mr. Ilic. You were actually in a position to look for a third member in the logical law of exclusion of a third, to seek a medium solution in the inability to maintain political rather than a sound approach to this issue. Because it does seem a little bit like that position of Walter's philosopher who admits to being informed that one party thinks the king died, that another thinks the king is alive, but has the civic courage to declare that he doesn't believe in the opinion of the first, or the opinion of others. Indeed, it is one position that is slightly impossible. Our amendments, there are ten, technical characters, come out of the belief that most laws will be passed. But our dissatisfaction remains permanent because of the unpreparedness to show a principled approach to this issue, because what is the principled approach. The government has formulated the principle of zero tolerance in relation to violations of the law. I'm sorry, these are the crimes we're talking about right now. I see that parliament is full of understanding, compassion for perpetrators of criminal acts under the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Where's the zero tolerance principle now? To tell you the truth, I don't grow adrenaline from mentioning the principle of zero tolerance, I don't get the enthusiasm of that formulation maybe just the hair on my head. I know, Mr. Ilic, knowing you for a long time in politics that you are an even smaller man who could be accused of actively, rigidly favouring the principle of zero tolerance. But honestly, if that's the principle of why we're twisting it on this subject right now, essentially, the opposite of absolute tolerance. That's controversial. In fact, this law had a problem transferred to local self-government, left a small door for so-called. cadastrian legalisation, which was essentially answered by the Constitutional Court, to which he could not be silent about the objections that had been brought. What problems local self-government has left behind. Look, this isn't about individual buildings, it's about all the substandard violence in which it's very difficult, almost impossible to provide infrastructure and municipal functions at the level of urbanised and urbanly correct part of the city. But it's only fair that local self-government handles it. It is their original jurisdiction, but I urge you, too, Mr. Minister and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to strengthen local self-government through other laws, and on this issue, to better opportunities and stronger political forces of reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23578	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Do you ministers want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23579	In the end, I want to thank you for one debate that we had for two days, and there was everything and everything. We wanted to make a law that is possible in this situation and remove what is the Constitution, the Constitutional Court of Serbia has made a remark. However, this was more used for a campaign, for a variety of stories that had nothing to do with the law. Many boasted that they had performed miracles, and construction was nothing. The most boasted were those who destroyed construction during some previous periods, which did not pay the bills to the builders. The ministry I run doesn't owe a single dinar to any construction or toll company. This is where I listened to the discussions of people who owed billions, and they left, and they didn't settle the accounts, it remained a debt, and the debt destroyed many companies. This is where those who privatized the travel firms and construction firms and handed them over to jurisdiction, not to tell the criminals, but to some strange people who had completely ruined them. Now let the people judge. Which increased work in the building 40% on black, Verice Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23580	I beg you, Minister, because they don't have a chance to speak to you, just don't talk to them.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23581	I'm sorry, I'm just asking. Where are the builders? They work with each other and black because their parent companies have been destroyed. Now, we say, it's not a good law, is it supposed to be the same framework in Serbia? How can the same thing in Tutin and Santa be charged? How can the one who built the facilities here at the temple of St. Save this pasture to charge the same as the Cave? Is that the same thing, does it need the same infrastructure and utility? It is not the same, and that is why the Constitutional Court has ordered the authorities of those who are competent to assess it and who live there. There's a lot of talk here and it says, there's a lot of illegal objects, that's right. I live in a city where the entire village is built in the blue area, it can never be legalized by anyone until the water industry allows it to be done there or in the zone of protection of the Ovcar-Cablar monastery or in national parks, to create entire settlements. How to legalize them, when people don't have the right to legalize themselves, because they've built thousands of objects where they can't be made. One very interesting question, we ask, why isn't a building permit taken out? Because there were no sanctions. This is where the highways worked without permission, so the bridges, so they don't have the permits, and do you know that half of Corridor 10's highway doesn't have a building permit, and it's useful not to talk? Do you believe that Loznica was given a million-euro street to repair? Who do you think gave it? Those who criticise this law today. (The People's Messenger Verica Kalanovic, from the place: He who gave and Cačka, as much. But a million euros for one little alley? Do you believe that a minister has signed a contract to build a highway without a spatial plan that has not been adopted in the area and which we are now adopting and that he has made a contract for the performance of works and arranged a job without an idea project and a spatial plan. Is it somewhere in the world, is there a country in the world where it can be done? There's nowhere to go. That's why it's going like this. That's why many of them have fallen apart, and they're going to fall apart, but well, everything's going to be in place. I don't want to bother you anymore, but some people here have criticized something without having any grounds for it. Let them be known for a little while, but for God's sake, they criticized that people were doing the law unprofessionally, that they had no idea that some of the previous laws were better. I haven't changed any lawyers at the Ministry. The ones that made the previous law, they made this one, but that doesn't mean I won't change. Now that I've seen how you know how to criticize it, there's gonna be some changes and there's got to be a change. So don't talk like that. Here we heard commendations for some ministers who left and didn't pay the debt, and they kept the register. We insisted with the builders to give them that nine billion. They came every day and prayed, begging. They're not getting paid. The maintenance of the roads isn't paid. The papers aren't paid. They're not getting paid. Of course, they go into bankruptcy. Why? Why wasn't they paid? How is everything paid in the flag, in the Fiat? What came to mind, they got it. Why aren't the passengers paid for anything? How is it possible to owe 4.5 billion to maintain roads? "Fiatou" is all paid in dinar, and clubs, and best water polo club, and best basketball, and best handball, and best football and best stadiums. What? Well, a politician would pass the censorship if he were going to a certain group of electoral bodies. That's the story. Political investment has killed Serbia here. It is more invested in the Old Mountain than in Serbia's entire construction industry. That's what I'm responsible for. Look at the receipts. I have the Resorb Ministry of Municipal Equipment of Cities, and the other minister who is not responsible for municipal equipment of cities to the extent that I have received jurisdiction is times 10. Why? Well, politically. Therefore, help this law to be passed, to have a law on legalization. Better any one than none, and this one's a good law. Don't say that -- some of them talk from the side, Ilic said steal. I didn't say, I said I thought you were stealing a little bit, but you're stealing a lot, which has been proven today by this arrest. Let's have someone take him to lunch, buy him a kilo of lamb, have a beer, maybe understand, but I hear he took 150 million for one signature. Well, that's not what Jaya took in the best days. For one permit? Well, how many of those permits do you think were there? I welcome you and thank you very much. I want to see you when we defend the amendments and cooperate further. Let you, those who lose, have the right to be angry and, of course, to say things, but we have to fight. Please, let's push forward. It's gonna be okay. There'll be construction again in place, leading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-10-02-0.u23582	Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We continue our work on Friday, October 4, at 10:00 p.m.
