ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25510	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sittings are attended by 93 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 89 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending the next National MPs Gordana Comic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of Proponent Nikola Selaković, Minister of Justice and State Administration, I have also called for the sittings to attend: Dr Danilo Nikolic and Neđo Jovanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration; Ljiljana Blagojevic, Assistant Minister of Justice and State Administration; Jovan Ćosic, Head of the Department of Justice and State Administration and Zlatko Petrovic, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice and State Administration. We continue the joint principled search on the proposals of the law from the points. 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to carry out a joint principled search on drafts of the agenda law. 1, 2, 3 and 4 and before the opening of the joint principled search, I remind you that it corresponds to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total time of debate in principle for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Time is allotted to you. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors. Does the representative of Proposer Nikola Selakovic, Minister of Justice and State Administration want a word? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25511	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of today's debate, allow me in principle to make a few preliminary remarks on the draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the regulation of courts, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. First of all, I would like to remind you that the National Assembly recently adopted a new National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period from 2013 to 2018, and that the government soon thereafter adopted the Action Plan for the implementation of the National Strategy. The draft laws we will discuss today in the National Assembly represent only the first step in achieving the objectives set out in the new National Strategy, and above all improving the work and efficiency of the judiciary, better access to the court, increasing citizens' confidence in the work of the judicial authorities. The four draft laws were prepared following a detailed analysis of the existing situation in the justice of the Republic of Serbia, after which working groups consisted of representatives of all stages of the courts and public prosecutors, as well as representatives of law schools, lawyers, associations of judges and public prosecutors, as well as meetings of working groups were attended by representatives of international organisations. The working texts of the draft law were carried out by a comprehensive public debate in which all interested parties could declare the proposed solutions. I remind you there's been an organized public hearing at the National Assembly. I will also note that the proposed laws were already in the assembly procedure in almost identical text as early as April 2013, but were withdrawn due to certain minor changes made to improve the text of the bill. After consultations were carried out both with the professional public and with the representatives of the European Commission, draft laws were submitted for consideration and adoption to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I will also point out that all these four draft laws represent in fact one continent, given that the solutions made by each individual law are interrelated to the solutions proposed in other laws. First, I will present the draft law on the seats and areas of the courts and public prosecutors. The reason for the adoption of a new law, rather than amending an existing law, is that a number of shortcomings related to the territorial organisation of courts and public prosecutors have been observed in relation to the current law. The biggest lack of current law is seen in the fact that there are only 34 basic courts in the Republic of Serbia, within them a large number of judicial units. Since the basic courts, as the name itself says, form the basis of the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia and that the majority of citizens appear as parties to the proceedings before those courts, the existing territorial organisation of the basic courts did not allow citizens an effective approach to the court, so it was necessary to change the existing solution thoroughly. The analysis of the work of the courts has shown that it is necessary to increase the number of basic courts to 66, as well as to reduce the number of judicial units at the same time since they have proved to be a irrational solution. In addition, with the aim of more effective work of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which primarily refers to the prosecution of perpetrators, and given the fact that it has begun the application of the new Code of Criminal Procedure under which the Public Prosecutor's Office plays a much more active role in the proceedings, the number of basics has increased, public prosecutors to 58 in this draft law. When it comes to criminal courts, the existing territorial organisation of these courts has not been changed. In view of the existing legal solutions, we believe that there are still 44 misdemeanor courts in line with our needs for the effective conduct of the infringement procedure, although the working group has also made a proposal to amend the network of criminal courts. As I have already pointed out, the most important newspaper provided for by the bill concerns the arrangement of the seat and the area of jurisdiction of the basic courts. The proposed network of 66 basic courts is based on analysis of the work of basic courts, the average annual inflow of cases, the criteria of geographical distance, the development of the travel network, the number of inhabitants, sometimes tradition, as well as the real needs of citizens for judicial protection. At the same time, a reduction in the number of judicial units was made, since they did not justify the reasons why they were educated, which is, above all, the approach of the citizens to the court, while on the other hand, they caused major costs in the functioning of the basic courts. In view of the fact that a judicial profession has been established, the establishment of a judicial profession and a public register, which should take over the responsibilities of partial and basic courts, is, above all, in a non-partisan procedure, which should start with the work of 1 October 2014, a transitional solution to the draft law provides for still existing judicial units in place in places in which there are still legal units, whose abolition is proposed, to educate the reception offices that will carry out the tasks of admission of documents, certification of documents and signatures, and in order to enable citizens to have easier access to the court during this transitional period. I would not be kept for longer on the statistical data which are in favour of the proposed network of basic courts, since the draft law also provides a detailed analysis of the effects of the law containing these data. Only as an illustration of the irrationality of the existing network of basic courts will I give an example of the Second Basic Court in Belgrade, which covers the territory of the so-called so-called Court of Justice. Belgrade suburban municipalities, which is quite dissociated and with a large number of inhabitants, resulting in the court having the highest burden on the inflow of new cases, and new cases by judge, which is more than twice as much as the court that had the least burden. Instead of that court, the bill provides for the establishment of three basic courts in Lazarovac, Obrenovac and Mladenov, which will only have a judicial unit in Sopot. When it comes to senior courts, an existing solution to their number has been retained. And as for the territory they cover, it is in line with the solutions set out in the draft laws governing the jurisdiction of primary courts and senior courts in the Republic of Serbia. The draft law has not changed the territorial organisation of economic courts, nor has the number of departments of the Criminal, Appealal and Administrative Court. In relation to the existing Law, significant changes have been made in respect of the areas of jurisdiction of the Courts of Appeal, which corrects the irrational solutions contained in the applicable law. Under the current law, the Belgrade Court of Appeal is responsible, among other things, for the areas of senior courts in Zajecar and Negotin. Such a solution certainly is not rational, because these cities are much closer to Nis than Belgrade, which is why the bill provides for the area of these courts to be competent for the Court of Appeal in Nis. Because Negotin is 238 km away from Belgrade and from Nis 152 km away, while Zaječar is 246 km away from Belgrade and Nis only 95 km away, for the same reasons, the territorial jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade and for the area of the Higher Court in Pancheva is foreseen. When it comes to the territorial organisation of public prosecutors, the solutions set out in the bill are mostly accompanied by a territorial organisation of courts. As has been said, the number of basic public prosecutors has increased from the existing 34 to the new 58th. The number of basic prosecutors is lower than the number of basic courts, for rationality reasons. Therefore, the bill provides for eight public prosecutors to cover the area of two basic courts, namely – the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Vranj, and for the Court of Justice in Bujanovac, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Zajecar and for the Area of the Basic Court in Književec, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Negotin and for the Main Court in Majdanpek, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar and for the Area of the Basic Court in Sjenica, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Piroth and the District Court in Dimitrovgrad, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Prijepo and the General Court in Priboj, the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica and the Main Court in Šid and the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Cacca and for the Main Court in Ivanjicja. I particularly highlight the provision of Article 12. A bill that provides for special legislation to regulate the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors responsible for the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. This solution is in line with all measures so far taken by the Government, on the one hand, and on the other hand, safeguards the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia in the event that the provisions of the concluded agreements concerning the organisation of judicial authorities in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija are not implemented. The transitional provisions of the bill set out the continuation of the work of existing courts and public prosecutors until the start of the application of the law, the way in which the cases were taken over, as well as the transfer of judges and deputy public prosecutors, i.e. the appointment of the perpetrators of the presidents of the courts and public prosecutors in newly established courts and public prosecutors. The application of the law is scheduled for 1 January 2014, in order to implement the necessary technical and organisational preparations for its application by that date. Allow me to make a few preliminary remarks on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Regulation of Courts. The proposed solutions should be observed in relation to the solutions set out in the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. The most significant amendments to the Law on the Regulation of Courts relate to the change in jurisdiction of the basic and senior courts. Another significant paper contained in the draft law is the regulation of a special procedure for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, which will be decided under the judicial system, and not as prescribed by the applicable laws, that the only legal means that the party is entitled to submit a constitutional appeal for trial within a reasonable period of time. I note that the text of the working version of the law, as well as the other laws that are now on the agenda, has been provided with expertise from the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe and that observations from expertise have been incorporated into the proposed texts. As I have pointed out, the special paper is a regulation of the procedure for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The provisions of the draft law give the possibility to a party who considers that it has been violated the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, to refer to a higher court, with a request for protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. By deciding on the party's request, a directly senior court, if it considers that the application is justified, may set a lower court deadline within which it is required to end the proceedings, and may also set a temporary compensation for the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, which shall be paid out of the budget. Against a negative decision, directly to the senior court, at the request of the party, a complaint can be made to the Supreme Cassation Court. This strengthens the protection of the right to trial within the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, which will, on the one hand, increase the discipline in the work of the courts and, on the other hand, certainly reduce the number of constitutional complaints filed, the Constitutional Court, as well as the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. The paper in the draft law also provides the solution that trials are held in the judicial unit for the entire territory of the court in certain court proceedings, i.e. matter in accordance with the annual court schedule. Such a solution, together with the solutions set out in the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, will contribute to the more efficient work of courts and the reduction of judicial costs, as well as the costs of participants in the process. With regard to the jurisdiction of the courts, the bill extends the first-degree jurisdiction of the High Court for all crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law, as well as for the most difficult forms of new criminal acts of corruption. In addition, the jurisdiction of the High Court and of the trial in the second instance is extended by establishing the jurisdiction of the High Court to decide on complaints against decisions of the basic courts on all measures to ensure the presence of the accused, as well as criminal offences for which a sentence of up to five years is threatened. In this way, a different distribution of real jurisdiction between basic and higher courts will be carried out, resulting in the discharge of the basic courts. Given that the largest number of court proceedings ends before the appeals courts, and since there are four appeals courts in the Republic of Serbia, the issue of inequality of court decisions has arisen in practice when handled in similar or similar legal situations. Given that a large number of procedures do not provide for the possibility of investing in an emergency legal remedy decided by the Supreme Cassation Court, which, through a decision on those legal remedies, would balance judicial practice, it is necessary to establish a mechanism to overcome this problem. That is why the bill provides for appeals courts to hold joint meetings and inform the Supreme Cassation Court about issues of issue of importance for the functioning of courts in the Republic of Serbia and the harmonisation of case law. This supplement is of paramount importance for the equal treatment of courts in the same legal matters in the Republic of Serbia, which is very important for the equality of all citizens before the law, and this will also contribute to a reduction of the number of constitutional complaints, i.e. performances before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. One of the EU's most important recommendations in the accession process was the specialisation of courts for trial in copyright and related rights disputes. In this respect, the draft law provides for exclusive jurisdiction of the economic courts for the trial in these disputes, regardless of whether economic operators or natural persons appear as parties. In addition, since the proposal for a law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors provides for the jurisdiction of the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce to act in the first instance in copyright and related rights disputes, both specialisation and concentration of jurisdiction are possible, thus fulfilling the EU's recommendations. The draft law amends the name of the High Court of Violation in the Criminal Court of Appeal, and given that that court has exclusive second-degree jurisdiction and that its name is aligned with the names of other courts with exclusive second-degree jurisdiction, such as the Court of Appeal and the Court of Appeal. The jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court has been deleted to establish the principle of legal views for the sake of uniform judicial application of law, given that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia does not know the principal legal views of the Supreme Cassation Court as a source of law on the basis of which judicial decisions are taken, instead it is prescribed that the Supreme Court provides for a uniform judicial application of the rights and equality of parties in the court proceedings. The bill provides for the possibility that special services for assistance and support for witnesses and injured persons, which, according to applicable regulations, exist only in war crimes proceedings, are being educated in the context of the cases of the judicial administration. The proposed solutions are moving forward with a tendency in the modern laws of the European countries where there are special services to support and assist witnesses and damage to the trial in criminal matters in which they may appear, especially for the crimes of organised crime and crimes with elements of violence. In order to make the court's work more efficient and discharging the President of the Court, it is predicted that all courts of the Republic rank, as well as courts with more than 30 judges, must have a manager, not as so far as the court's manager, who performs material financial and organisational technical affairs in the court. The draft law lays down the right for judges to be able to make an insight into their personal list, as well as to object to its content, thus harmonising with the Personal Data Protection Act. In order to strengthen the independence of the judicial authority, and in accordance with the national strategy of judicial reform and recommendations of the Venice Commission and the European Commission, the draft law lays down a deadline for the transfer of jurisdiction from the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration to the VSS, with a view to establishing the criteria for determining the number of judicial staff, the conduct of the affairs of the judicial administration, as well as the adoption and exercise of supervision over the application of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, a deadline has been set for the termination of the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and of the State Administration in relation to giving an opinion on a VSS act proposing the scope and structure of budgetary resources for the ongoing expenditure of judicial authorities, as well as for the supervision of the expenditure of the budget funds identified for the work of courts. It is proposed to assume those responsibilities by the VSS as of 1 June 2016, in order to create the necessary human and technical conditions for the takeover of these responsibilities. In view of the fact that the bill changes certain competences, primarily basic and senior courts, the law is intended to start to apply on 1 January 2014, at the same time as the application of the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors. In short, I would point out the most significant solutions to the Bill of Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Judges which occurred because of the need for individual provisions of the law, and in particular provisions relating to the independence of the judge, to move and refer the judge to another court, to the public in the choice of judges and president of the courts, as well as the provisions on disciplinary responsibility, to specify and supplement. The draft law sets out the provisions governing the institution of the transfer of judges, in the light of constitutional provisions guaranteeing the unmovableness of the judge, the draft law provides for the notion of a change in the court's prerogatives, as a reason for the Judge's transfer to another court, without its own consent. It is also prescribed that the judge in this case may be transferred only to the court of the same degree that assumes the jurisdiction of the suspended court, which means that he cannot be transferred by the judge from Subotica to, for example, the basic court in Leskovec, Vranja or Piroth, but exclusively in the area of the basic court in Subotica. Taking into account the importance of the right to a natural judge, the draft law provides for more precise arrangements for derogations from the order of admission of cases, as well as cases where a judge may be seized and assigned to another judge. That provision shall allow, in addition to the protection of the right to a natural judge and the security of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, in the event that the judge is absent for a long time or if there are other reasons why the case is not being handled. The proposed law amends the provisions of the Law on Judges which regulate the evaluation of the work of judges and the President of courts. It is proposed that the work of the judges and the president of the courts be valued by the VSS committees. The Commission will have three members, with judges of the higher level to evaluate the work of a lower-level judge, taking into account their long-term work experience at the judge's office, as well as the possibility of insight into the work of lower-level judges. Against the judge's assessment, it has the right to object, which is decided by a special commission of the VSS composed exclusively of judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation. A legal protection which can be achieved in the administrative dispute before the administrative court has been provided against the decision on the objection. The bill provides for the obligation to hold talks with candidates who are first elected to a judicial post, not only the possibility as provided for so far. In addition, in order to bring the law into line with law under the Judicial Academy, the High Council of the Judiciary is required to propose a candidate who completed his initial training at the Judicial Academy when proposing candidates for the election. Such a solution is foreseen for the selection of judges of the criminal or basic court, i.e. the courts of the lowest degree. With regard to the provisions of the Law on Judges, concerning the President of the Court, it is predicted as a new condition that only a judge who is in permanent judicial office may be elected for the President of the Court in order to avoid the possibility of a judge first elected as judge. In addition, it has been proposed that the High Council of the Judiciary for the President of the Court, instead of more candidates, propose one candidate. Such a solution is more appropriate compared to a valid legal solution, given that the procedure before the High Council of the Court provides for a detailed procedure allowing the High Judicial Council to propose the best candidate for the President-in-Office. It predicts that the term of office of the President of the Court takes five years instead of four years, which is the same solution that the Constitution prescribes for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. In accordance with the constitutional provision, as well as for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the same person is expected to be elected once as President of the Court. The bill shortened the time set by the court president's office from one year to six months, and given that it was an emergency situation, it is necessary to select the president as soon as possible. When it comes to selecting the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Law on Judges is complemented in order to ensure public insight on the quality of candidates data, with information on candidates being provided on the website of the High Council of Justice. It provides that candidates are required to deliver an appropriate programme to improve the work of the judicial system in the Republic of Serbia. The bill explicitly prohibits jury judges from being members of political parties, i.e. to participate in political activities, which is significant for impartial decision-making in court proceedings. In this way, judges are leveled with professional judges, when it comes to banning political action. The significant newspapers represent amendments to the provisions relating to the disciplinary procedure. It is envisaged that certain disciplinary penalties can be imposed each and every one, but also cumulatively, allowing more disciplinary sanctions to be imposed in any particular case. Also, the length of limitation periods for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings has been changed from one to two years since the date of the disciplinary offence was committed, given that even more complicated disciplinary offences can occur, which may lead to a longer disciplinary procedure. At the same time, additional legal protection is foreseen in the disciplinary proceedings against judges, so that the judge can file a complaint in the administrative dispute against a second-degree disciplinary decision. I'll introduce you to the amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutor's Office. In the course of the application of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, certain provisions, in particular provisions relating to the organisation of the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the hierarchical relationship between the public prosecutor's office holders, the rules on the selection of deputy public prosecutor, the procedure for the selection of public prosecutors and the deputy public prosecutor's office, the evaluation of the work and the deputy public prosecutor's office, as well as the provisions on disciplinary responsibility should be specified and complemented. The bill provides for the possibility that the basic public prosecutor's office can also be established for several basic courts, which is in line with the proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, which provides for eight public prosecutors to be established for the area of two basic courts. In addition, it envisions the possibility that other public prosecutors, not only the public prosecutor's office, may have departments outside their seats. In this way, it is possible that, if there are no necessary conditions for the establishment of a public prosecutor's office, such a public prosecutor's office is not established, but that the department of the already existing public prosecutor's office is educated. The provisions of the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office have been amended to regulate the issuing of mandatory instructions directly by the senior public prosecutor to the lower public prosecutor. In this way, when it is necessary to take action, which does not suffer a delay, an exception is provided in relation to the rule that the mandatory instruction must be in writing. In this respect, a directly senior public prosecutor shall be obliged to deliver this instruction in writing within three days. With this exception, whose need for regulation has been shown by practice, it allows for more effective work by the prosecution, where the obligation to issue instructions in writing, as a basic rule, is not violated. An identical solution concerns the issuing of a mandatory public prosecutor's instructions to his deputy. The bill stipulates that a republican public prosecutor has an obligation to submit a regular annual report on the work of public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia to the National Assembly. In this way, it is possible for a body choosing and deciding to suspend the role of the republican public prosecutor, through regular annual reports, to have insight into the work of public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. In view of the solutions set out in the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, it is necessary to specify the concept of abolishing the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is predicted that the public prosecutor's office is suspended in the case where the area of jurisdiction is divided into two or more public prosecutors. In this proposal for a law, it was agreed with the Law on the Judicial Academy, provided that the State's Chief Prosecutors were obliged to propose a candidate who had completed training at the Academy when proposing candidates for the selection of a deputy public prosecutor. The bill envisions the obligation to hold talks with candidates who are elected to the public prosecutor's office. In this way, it is possible for the applicant reported to present further clarifications in the interview with the members of the State Council of Prosecutors and to provide additional information that is relevant for the selection of candidates. This ensures greater transparency in the selection process for candidates. To the greater public in the process of electing candidates to the public prosecutor's office, it is envisaged that the State's major prosecutors, when proposing and electing candidates, have the obligation to draw up a ranking list based on pre-arranged criteria and criteria and which must be publicly published on the State's Council of Prosecutors' website. As in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges, an amendment has been made to the length of the limitation period for the conduct of a disciplinary procedure from one to two years from the date of the disciplinary offence committed, and given that even more complex disciplinary offences can occur which may lead to a longer disciplinary procedure. The possibility of a administrative dispute against a second-degree disciplinary decision is also foreseen. In the shortest lines, this would be the most significant newspaper in these draft laws. Let me thank you at the end of this initial presentation for your attention and express my hope that, after the debate in principle and in particular, the proposed laws will be adopted, creating conditions for achieving the objectives set out in the National Strategy for Justice Reform, while contributing to greater legal certainty and more effective protection of the rights of citizens and economic operators in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25512	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25513	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a fundamental reform of judicial reform. The damage that has been done, the 2008 reform, 2009 reform cannot be corrected by this reform. This can all become a much better solution in some future time from now on. For our parliamentary group, this package of judicial laws is generally acceptable. In 2008, we were worth remembering, from the ruling coalition, then the ruling coalition, we were the only party that opposed then adopted solutions, in a way that we weren't even ready to give even the quorum back then for the adoption of these laws. Unfortunately, they've been adopted, applied, and now we're in this situation where we are. We are facing one of the many characteristics of the new concept of judicial reform, i.e. the judicial network. The minister was talking about the numbers. So, from the present 34 basic courts, 66 basic courts will be established. Of the existing 102 judicial units, it will remain 23. That's the bill at the moment. Areas with a significant minority population, therefore, in which minorities make an absolutely relative majority, are in any case the winners of this concept. In 2008, these areas were markedly affected by the reform at the time. Before 2008, there were 14 municipal courts in municipalities with a significant minority population, with only two basic courts left in these municipalities. Now the number of these basic courts is increasing to seven. I would like to thank the Ministry and the Minister for the fact that the ministry has respected our initiative to re-establish basic courts in Vienna and Senti. All in all, this concept is in many lines better than valid, but of course it has some faults. If a man analyzes the number of abolished judicial units and the number of municipalities that will be left without any judicial institutions, then you can conclude that such municipalities will be close to 50, which is in no way good. On the other hand, I'm going to move on to the way the law is made and I'm going to make some criticism. So, before the work began, the task force established some key principles, basic and complementary criteria. For us, both principles and criteria are fully acceptable. However, I will also talk about this in our objections, our amendments, we do not think that all principles and not all criteria are consistently, or consistently applied in all cases. For us, it is not at all a controversial principle that the network of courts is not conditioned by administrative division. That's for sure what you're talking about. In advance, I would like to say that according to our deep conviction, this poses no danger to the exercise of minority rights, regardless of whether some or some dukean municipality, according to the bill, is going to be gravitated towards a municipality or a city that is not a duchess. I say that one more time for us is not a question at all. Conducting procedures in the languages of national minorities is not a question for a network of courts. It's a question of the Law of Official Use of Language and Letters. I would also take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for fulfilling the promise and in the Action Plan for implementing the reform of the judiciary, you have made a commitment to the creation of a new Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. The only additional appeal concerns the composition of a task force to work on the law. Our request would be to include representatives of minorities in these working groups. I think that's completely logical. As far as principles and criteria are concerned, our grudge concerns one flaw in the reasoning of the bill. This lack is seen as a key criterion for the inflow of objects, lagging behind, or tending to. This criterion is not seen from the reasoning of the bill. For the MPs, I think it would be extremely valuable if the reasoning of the bill contained a numerical representation of these movements, the inflow of cases, the lags, or tends to all courts, all the judicial units, because in that case we would be in a situation in which we would really assess in one way the full or incomplete correctness in applying the criteria that the ministry itself has set. What might be another criterion that has not been applied is some current state of facilities, infrastructure, existing or non-existent conditions for the work of courts and judicial units. That criterion is not among the criteria, and I think it should have been found. What is more important to us than all of this is the content of our amendments. We think that the weakest part of the bill and the least reasoned part of the bill on the new network of courts is the territory of the northern Potis, therefore, of the municipalities located by the Tisa River and in the north of Vojvodina. It's about Sainta, Kanjiža, Ada, from the Bačvan side of Novi Knezevic and Choki on the other side of the Tisa River. We've submitted a few amendments. With one of our amendments, we propose a re-establishment of the court in Kanjija. At this point, according to the bill, there will be a court in Senta for the municipalities of Senta, Ada and Kanjiž, but without judicial units in Ada and Kanjija. Kanjiza has 25,000 inhabitants. It's about half an hour, 23-24 kilometers from Senta. Before the judicial reform, the Canjija Municipal Court had seven judges. According to the bill, there are several but at least two new basic courts, which will be located in towns, or municipalities smaller than Kanjija. It's about Raska and Dimitrovgrad. Both of these municipalities are significantly smaller, one slightly smaller, another significantly smaller than Kanjija. Both of these basic courts, both in Raska and Kanjija, had fewer judges than seven before judicial reform. In Raška, it was according to the 2003 decision six, and in Dimitrovgrad four. On the other hand, both Raška and Dimitrovgrad are located for about half an hour, 20 minutes from other basic courts that will be established or will continue to exist. Raška is located 20km from Novi Pazar, from a significantly larger town, and Piroth for half an hour from Dimitrovgrad. All that I said was not in my intention to challenge the rights of the people of Dimitrovgrad or Raska to the existence of the basic court. I said all of this in order to support the foundation of the existence of a basic court in Kanjija. That was the essence of my arguments. If this argument is not appreciated, then it would be the turn to consider another argument, and this second argument refers to the other two municipalities on the Banatian side of Tisa, Novi Knezevic and Chok. They're gravitating, according to the bill, according to Kickinda. The new Duke of Kanjiza is located maybe five, six kilometers away, and is 50 kilometers away from Kikinda. Choca from Sainta is on, too, five, six kilometers, and from Kickinda to 30 and something, maybe 40. It is completely illogical that two municipalities, which are very close to or the basic court in Senta, whose formation is envisaged, or our solution, so to the basics in Kanjija, to continue to gravity towards Kikinda. This solution does not meet any criteria set by the task force for lawmaking. If this argument of ours is not appreciated, then I'd like to appeal to you to at least consider leaving a judicial unit in Kanjiza. If, regardless of all the arguments, there can be no basic court in Kanjiža, then I think that, in addition to all these arguments that I have stated, there are countless arguments that at least a judicial unit should be left behind. In significantly smaller municipalities, judicial units survived. Like, in Sokobanja, New Vienna, Topoli, Sopot. All these municipalities where judicial units will continue to exist are located at the same distance from the basic courts as Kanjiza is away from Sainta. It's about the repressive part of the bill. Our second key amendment refers to the re-establishment of the basic court in Backo Topoli. I think there are countless arguments for the existence of a municipal court in Baška Topoli along with the Municipality of Mali Ijosh. A detailed discussion is already under way on the Justice Committee. I had the feeling that there was an understanding of the arguments, so for the existence of a basic court in Backo Topoli and that there was a willingness to correct the bill in that sense. Namely, Bačka Topola has 33,000 inhabitants. Before the justice reform, there were 11 judges. So, all of those key criteria meet and together with Mali Ijoša makes up a territory of 45,000 inhabitants, in a situation where the municipality of Mali Ijoš, a remoter municipality from the area of this basic court, is almost an hour away from Subotica. So, distance as far as the trip is concerned. What would still matter to us, besides everyone, besides these two basic courts, is to seriously consider our amendment to the Temerin Judicial Unit. If I were to state the figures and the population and the number of judges before judicial reform, etc. I think all the numbers are on our side. In addition, the fact that in Temerin, at least as far as Vojvodina is concerned, the most fragile international relations, should be a serious reason to reconsider the abolition of the Temerin judicial unit, i.e. the survival of that judicial unit. Whether there will be a parallel between the current fundamental reform, judicial reform and the 2008 reform, we will have the answer in a few days. When the Government discusses all the amendments that have arrived, and when the Government decides not to accept the amendments submitted, we will see a parallel, i.e. a deviation towards the way the judicial network was formed in 2008, i.e. in 2013. In 2008, according to the Bill on Seats and Areas of Courts, no point has been changed in the assembly debate. For us, the key question is whether the same mechanism, or the same principle, will apply now, or whether there will still be greater openness by the ministry to respect all the arguments that MPs will make. Believe us, however, MPs are much, much closer to these municipalities in which there will be or will be no basic courts, or judicial units from members of the working group who eventually made this bill. So please seriously consider all the amendments. I'm sure there's room for the establishment of not a large number, but for the establishment of several new basic courts and for the survival of several existing judicial units. As far as the other three draft laws are concerned, I would only like to say a few things in relation to one provision of the Law on the Regulation of Courts and the Law on Public Prosecutors. Therefore, both in the Law on the Regulation of Courts, Articles 65 and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, Article 122 provides for newspapers in the procedure of the reception of court trainees. We very much welcome the fact that the provision in the draft law on the regulation of courts and the proposal for a law on public prosecutions that prescribed candidate championships that ended with a high grade. I have often talked about why this is a problem for minority communities whose languages are significantly different from the Serbian language. For those minority communities that fall within this category, the huge problem is the completion of the first and second years of law school. On the third or fourth certainly that language barrier no longer exists or is significantly smaller, but at the first year it is also very large. If we accept that fact, then it is perfectly understandable why the average estimates of these candidates for judicial trainees are weaker than their colleagues. For this reason, we welcome the eradication of this criterion and welcome the new way of regulation, i.e. the regulation of the procedure for the reception of court trainees. This will be handled by the Justice Minister's act. So, by your act. I would take this opportunity to appeal in the sense that this procedure, which you are about to arrange, is such as to allow full respect for the position of the 4th current law, Article 65. The law on the regulation of courts, which is respect for the national composition of the population in the national mixed environments. So what would be extremely important is that the procedure for the admission of judicial and prosecutorial trainees is such as to be affirmative, not discriminatory. It's the only and perhaps the key to our application as well as this law on the regulation of courts and the Law on Public Prosecutors. Once again, I want to repeat that all these laws are acceptable to us in principle. We have some important amendments, some of our initiatives. That's what I'm talking about. Compared to Vienna and Saint, they were accepted. I think there are a lot of arguments for the existence of a basic court in Backo Topoli, and for the existence of a basic court in Kanjiza, along with the New Duke, and for the existence of a judicial unit in Temerin and for other judicial units or basic courts that I haven't had time to talk about. I hope that, at the end of the debate, we will have a situation to accept a few amendments from the MPs and that we will not be in a situation in which we were in the end of 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25514	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Petar Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25515	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I say a few sentences about the proposed laws, I didn't want to report as chairman of the Justice Committee, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, twice not to talk about the same thing. Allow me in one sentence to say that the Committee at the session, which it held right before the start of this assembly, adopted most of the proposed laws in principle and proposed that it also adopt them. As a representative of the United Serbia Parliamentary Group, I can begin by saying that the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support all proposed laws in principle, because we believe that the proposed laws greatly improve the text of the laws currently in force, which we adopted four years ago and which have shown some weaknesses, certain irregularities, etc. I would like to begin my presentation with the first law, which is the Law on the Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, and I can say that it is perfectly normal for each of us here, MPs, to have certain objections to the proposed text of this law for the reason that we all come from certain environments and certainly want to have in our cities or in the environment of our places, either a basic court or a judicial unit. If nothing else, we need it for election campaigns that will be in one three or four years. As for Unity Serbia, we have also given several amendments to the proposed and offered text of the bill, and we hope that the ministry will pay attention to them. We believe that they are acceptable, because let us bear in mind that the ministry must have had a lot of arguments when it came up with one such proposal, that instead of 34 basic courts in Serbia, now that the text of the law has been adopted, it is at least 66, as is now proposed, and perhaps more, with the judicial units that are now proposed. We believe that it would be necessary for there to be a little more judicial units in Serbia's territory, precisely for the reasons set out in the reasons given by the minister, for justice and for the right to trial to be more equal and accessible to all citizens living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We also welcome the ministry's efforts to make it possible, through this bill and the formation of both judicial units and the departments of public prosecutors, that a number of citizens can address in time to protect certain injured rights, both the prosecutions and the basic courts. What is also acceptable to the MPs of Unity Serbia is that the territorial jurisdiction of the Court of Appeals, existing in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is changed, so that some senior courts who have now been, I say, conditionally under the authority of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, or someone else now, are placed or given under the territorial court of appeal in Nis, such as Zajecar and Negotin, or the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, as is the case with the High Court of Fire, or the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, such as the case of Pančevo, the Supreme Court of Appeal in Pancheva, or the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, where the Supreme Court in Šapac, to say, goes under the territorial competent court of Appeal in Novi Sad. In some ways, the right to decide by appeal in the Court of Appeals is approaching, and on the other hand, what has previously been a time period of certain difficulties, historically speaking, we are erasing some artificial and territorial borders on the territory of the Serbian state. That should be welcomed by all the MPs in this assembly. When it comes to the seat of the basic courts, Mr. Minister, I would ask you to just follow me into a few sentences, as you know the Members of the Single Serbia have, with very few amendments, tried to intervene on the proposed text of the law, and I think each one has an excuse for it. We don't want to look and we didn't want to watch when we explained why we should be in a municipality, in a town, to form a judicial unit. We wanted to look at and compare with other cities and municipalities, where the bill gave the right to have those municipalities as judicial units, but we believe there is no excuse that one Ćupria, which has about 40,000 inhabitants does not have a judicial unit, is located on Corridor 10, along the highway, with a largely dissociated population, where there is also a predominantly ageing population, a Vlach population, etc., and that some other municipalities that are much less and less territorially and by the number of inhabitants, living on the territory and municipalities have a judicial unit. Also, I think that we pragmatically gave the amendment when we suggested that the basic court in Arangelovac being formed, there is, so to speak, under my jurisdiction and territory of the Rač municipality, which would be under the authority of and to say that it is territorially related to a judicial unit formed in Topoli. It should be seen historically and pragmaticly, that Racha has always been tied to Topola, literally, as the Marines and the Sumadinians say, like a umbilical cord. Also, we felt that the basic court in Šapec would have to have a judicial unit in Bogatic, which is also a large municipality. At this moment, he lives and works and judges five judges. We also suggested, when it comes to the prosecution, if there is already a Court of Justice in Surdulica with judicial units in Vladic's Han and Bosilegrad, it would be logical that, as in most others, or all other basic courts and prosecutors, the prosecution's headquarters would also be in Surdulica, and that the Department of Vladic's Han, regardless of what the bill provides for the head office of the Public Prosecutor's Office to be in Vladic's Han. We also suggested when it comes to the Krusevec General Court that the municipality of Varvarin and Cicevic be formed by a judicial unit in Varvarin for two municipalities, Varvarin and Cicevic. I think it is necessary for pragmatic reasons and for what we have generally advocated, and we advocate that it be more efficient, cheaper and accessible to citizens the right to protect certain rights, both in the court and in the prosecution. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group, I would like to conclude the discussion on behalf of the Single Serbia Group when it comes to the first law. When it comes to the other three laws, I would like to welcome with a few sentences the efforts of the Ministry of Justice when it proposed certain amendments to the Law on Regulating Courts, particularly those provisions concerning trials within a reasonable period of time where we have had certain problems, certain objections. As chairman of the Committee, I can say that I have had a lot of written objections from citizens across the Republic of Serbia who have complained to the Committee about certain problems they have because the trial is not being conducted within a reasonable period. When it comes to the establishment of a job or the functions of the governor of the court, it also welcomes the Single Serbia parliamentary club, and we believe that these technical affairs should not continue to be done by the presidents of the courts, to be relieved of these matters. That's what they should do and they'll do when we adopt this law, the governors of the courts. When it comes to the jurisdiction of courts, seniors, as the judges who work in appeals courts say, we welcome that the so-called little appeal is brought down to more courts and that the appeals courts of these trials are dispersed. When it comes to the Law on Judges, it is particularly less acceptable to provide for a different, better and better quality assessment of the work of judges by the Special Commission of the High Judicial Council, which would have to do it better and better. I'm going to take one trip, it shouldn't have happened like it did before, what I found, and Mr. Minister, since we joined the High Council of the Judiciary together in the new council, that we were forced to accept all the judges who first entered the basic courts, regardless of the quality of their work, because there was no rule. It's just that for three years, there's been no time, no opportunity, no desire to make a rule worth some judges. In this way, it is the opposite, through disciplinary proceedings and disciplinary responsibility of judges from the Court of Justice to the Court of Justice, we would appreciate their work, and we would simply have to thank ourselves through the conduct of disciplinary proceedings to some judges, holders of judicial functions, public prosecutorial functions that are no longer similar and that they can't do the work that they've done so far because they've committed for these or these reasons some violations or some mistakes that are unworthy of performing judicial or public prosecutorial functions. When it comes to the reception of judges to the first working relationship, let me say first in the basic courts we particularly welcome as JS to enable and avoid the right of someone to challenge it before the Constitutional Court that something has not been adopted in accordance with the existing regulations, that all members of the Judicial Academy who successfully completes the academy, have the right and simply have to be admitted to the basic courts, or to the deputies of the basic prosecutors, because why would someone attend the Judicial Academy if there is no advantage or any right to be elected judge of the Court of Justice tomorrow or the Deputy Attorney General? It is also a good suggestion that the future High Judiciary Council will come out with a proposal from a candidate when considering the proposal for court presidents. It is simply not possible that, for these or those reasons, lobbying or whatever other way to re-vote those people who have considered all the proposals of candidates, by talking to them, had insight into their professional, moral and every other character. So they can come up with a proposal from a candidate they would propose for the President of the Court, and a decision-making body can decide whether to accept the proposal or not, but we would simply avoid any vote of about two or more candidates. I could talk a lot more about these other laws, but I don't want to take any more time. Once again, I would like to reiterate that the MP JS in the voting day will support all the proposed laws, by asking once again the Ministry and Mr Minister to consider the amendments that the JS parliamentary group made to the proposal for a law on the seats of courts, fundamental courts and prosecutors. I think they're explained. I think they're just and I don't think they're bound by politics, politics, or anything else, they're simply bound by the desire to make as many citizens as possible, as I've said in a cheaper and fairer way, to be able to protect their rights from the competent court, or to initiate a procedure, a motion for procedures in the primary public prosecutors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25516	The word is from the MP Srdjan Spasojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25517	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, Mr. Minister, at the beginning of their presentation in front of the NS parliamentary group, as an authorised representative, I would like to commend the competent ministry that has made the proposed laws extremely good proposals. The proposed laws are good and certain corrections have been made to the legal proposal that was before us, which was in April of the month. In this way, the Government has shown that there is hearing about proposals coming from the assembly benches, which, in the light of the amendments that we have made then, will practically in most cases come to light, and I believe that this proposal of the law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors will have one high-quality law and that many of the doubts that were in the previous period, both with Serbian citizens and local self-government, and all of us, will have one good solution, and in essence the fact that you have raised a number of judicial units from 34 to 66 certainly will contribute to the basic Constitution of every citizen's right to an equal protection of justice, to a fair trial within a reasonable time, as an incentive for more uniform burden of courts and judges. All the proposed solutions are of great quality. I think that what you are through this bill compared to April, where judicial units receive the following places such as Topola, Alexandrovac, White Church, Vrnjačka Banja, Bojnik, Sopot, Zaguvica, Indji, Bosielgrad, Vladic's Han and Bajna Basta, will primarily be the holders of judicial functions as well as the citizens of Serbia who are most important in this whole story, who exercise their rights will be in fundamental advantage of the law that was in April of the month. In the same context, I would particularly like to stress that I am apostrophe that the area of Vrnjačka Banja municipality has been returned under the jurisdiction of the General Court in the Kingdom and that Vrnjačka Banja herself has been given the judicial unit, which we requested by amendment when we had a previous legislative proposal. Our reasons, as stated in the second amendment, are also respected, so the jurisdiction of the Great Court of Cacca, the area of the basic court in Ivanjica, was established. New Serbia has submitted one amendment to this legislative proposal, and I will specifically comment on the area of Nova Varoshi, to obtain a judicial unit, the basic court in Prijepolje, and then to get Guca's judicial unit of the basic court in Ivanjica, that Ljug gets a judicial unit of the Basic Court and Mionici, and that the municipality of Bogatic is given the basic court and the public prosecutor's office in order to raise the general level of legal certainty, given that specific criminal acts are more represented in its territory precisely for border areas. We believe that it is viewed from the corner of ordinary citizens that it is extremely good that the transitional provisions in Article 13 stipulate that in those places where the judicial units are shut down they continue to work as a reception office where citizens will be able to hand over letters and verify documents, or signatures. These offices will work until the public notebooks start working. This way in these places will be able to carry out the most attractive legal action, so there will be no need for a good share of the population of these places to have a team travel elsewhere. The law in transitional provisions specifies exactly what all the High Council of the judiciary and the Resoring Ministry as competent institutions should do until the start of the application of this law, i.e. until 1 January 2014. Article 12. The bill stipulates that the establishment of courts and public prosecutors for the KIM area will be governed by a special law, and Article 17 provides that this law will be passed by 31.12.2013 at the latest, thus achieving chronic consistency when this law is as a whole, as well as the matter it regulates. At the end of this part of the first legislative proposal, I would also like to say that we have submitted one amendment to Topola, although it is now possible that there is a judicial unit in the court of Arangelovac. I would like to say that we have submitted one amendment, and we will discuss this amendment which would be an even more compromise solution, and we will explain it when it is decided in particular. When we discuss amendments. At the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Law on Courts, I would like to highlight a few facts. Namely, the judiciary is one of three interdependent elements in the system of division of power. The amendment of Article 6 further strengthens the authority and impartiality of the court as an institution, which should in practice further strengthen the independence of the judiciary, particularly from the executive authority, but also from any attempt to influence the course and outcome of the court proceedings. Members from 8a to 8v shall also be added, providing different means of safeguarding the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The only legal means currently in the process, which she believes is that this right has been violated, is to file a constitutional appeal to the Constitutional Court. A new solution gives the party the opportunity to address the higher court directly and that, in addition to speeding up the proceedings and its completion, within a reasonable period of time, he will also receive compensation for the violation of this right. It is important to note that the whole decision-making process is urgent under this request. It is expected that, in this way, reinforced judicial protection of this right within the judicial system itself, the number of complaints, both the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, will be significantly reduced. The provision of Article 8 is very important in order to bring court practice into line in the Republic of Serbia. The draft law stipulating that appeals courts hold joint meetings and inform the Supreme Cassation Court of the need to establish or amend legal understanding, i.e. to discuss issues of importance for the functioning of courts in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the harmonisation of case-law. This will achieve equal court treatment in the same legal matters, which will ensure the equality of citizens before the law. With regard to this and to the provisions of Article 13, which delete the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court, it is to establish principles of legal views for the sake of uniform judicial application of law, as well as the obligation of this court to ensure the equality of parties in court proceedings. Article 19. The bill provides opportunities for seniors, as well as other courts designated by the High Council of the judiciary, to educate special services to help and support witnesses and injured, which is certainly a good solution for Serbian citizens. Article 21 is further specified otherwise by the already existing appeal procedure, by prescribing treatment with unclear, incomprehensible, or complaints of offensive content. Article 24 states that the procedure for the reception of judicial assistants is closer to the act of the Secretary-General, with a view to the uniformity of their admission in all courts in the Republic of Serbia. It is also a very important provision in Article 32, which provides for the transition of one important part of the jurisdiction of the Resolute Ministry of Justice and the State Administration to the High Council of the judiciary, starting on 1 June 2016. It is a matter of jurisdiction to establish the criteria for determining the number of judicial staff to carry out the judicial administration's affairs for the application of the Rules of Procedure, as well as to exercise control over the spending of the budget resources identified for the work of the courts. This will certainly further strengthen the independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia, which is otherwise the highest task of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. When we talk about the regulation of courts, I think that all the proposals of this law and the rules of law are very good, but it must be taken into account that before those first judicial reform, specifically in the King, the trial in litigation was a month in a month, possibly two months, and that now we have one big problem, that the trials are scheduled for five, six, seven, eight months. What kind of trial is that within the reasonable time frame that we propose, when it is not applied in practice? I'm sure that you, with your associates, will find the possibility that everything on paper in the drafts of the law is fine by me here today, which I greatly appreciate, as well as you. But if we have another situation in the field tomorrow, then we haven't done anything. It is a very long way for citizens of Serbia, when they go into a lawsuit, to exercise their rights without spreading the story I have told many times from this pay phone, not to talk about execution, where there is a special story. At least let this part, which comes to a judicial verdict, be faster, because I really think that citizens show one impatience when it comes to it, and at least it's your fault. It is the fault of those who have made some bad moves, above all by reducing the number of judges who, meanwhile, have returned one general proposal and the current solutions, have made a lot of mistake, when it comes to courts. There's one more thing I'd like to point out. You have to do something to, at the moment of this economic crisis that we have, find an opportunity to cut the costs of judges traveling from city to city in any way. That's an extraordinary lot. I believe that, specifically for the area of the Kragujevac Court of Appeal, that people who travel and spend three, four hours a day can neither do their job quality, nor is it good for them, nor for the parties, nor for the state. This has to happen because I believe that, apart from certain real risks in all of this, there is something that burdens and often there are situations, especially in the winter period, the inability of such arrivals, etc. I believe these judicial officials play an extremely important role in the justice system. At one point, I said, when we were making these proposals, that it was a “traveling circus. ” If you have in one city a prosecutor who travels from another city or a judge, so this one goes 50 kilometers, and this one from his town, I think it's illogical. This was then said to prevent certain corruption in a place. Believe me, Minister, I'm going to say it this time, to remind you, since I said it in the last term, it's much better when the holder of a judicial function is from his city. Every citizen of Serbia, or that city, knows who this man is and if anything is about corruption will be much easier, who is prone to it, I don't say anything, it's much easier to do something like that in another city than in your city where you live. So, let's start from the assumption that it's never gonna happen, but that was an argument that made all of it, so there's huge costs, so the state doesn't have any money, so it happens that neither the witches, nor the jurors, lawyers, etc. I think there's an extremely high cost in that direction, and I think that's where you need to find quality solutions. Otherwise, the solutions from all the proposed laws are very good. The New Serbia parliamentary group will surely support these legislative proposals, but only a little while longer, all that we put here in the assembly and in the government, to make it a little more applicable with an additional push in practice. Finally, I will refer only to these two legislative proposals. They're very good with all the solutions. We'll discuss them in more detail when we speak in the amendment section, when we speak in detail. Much is said when it comes to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office. Of course, there are certain objective things. We know that the prosecution's in charge. Both legal proposals are very good. Finally, I will repeat once again that we will support legislative proposals in the voting day, like New Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25518	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25519	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, the SPO and the DHSS are advocates of reforms from the establishment of our political parties, especially reforms in the area of justice, because of what we have not yet rooted out of our judiciary, which is that we have a rather slow, inefficient judiciary, largely dependent on the executive authority and on the feelings that every citizen who seeks justice has, and of course, the judiciary is one important segment of the state government, which is that we do not have justice in a satisfactory way. But these are not only the citizens of our parliamentary group, these are the estimates and Brussels, but also the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, which has been covered by various lawsuits from Serbia over the failure of the rule of law, is another indicator as far as we were right politically. We voted as a political party for the previous network of courts, precisely because of those analyses that follow and analysis of this bill, which is that the existing network of courts and the system of functioning in 2008 were not satisfactory. We will also support the draft laws governing courts, draft laws amending the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, amending criminal law, although we believe that there is a need for serious codification of criminal law and a bill on the regulation of courts, because we think these solutions are quite good. The previous draft law on the network of courts that you have submitted and happily withdrawn from the procedure was indeed a desperate proposal and it is a good thing that you have come much more carefully to solve this problem. Because, despite being a Kragujevac MP, I will not mention Kragujevac, because Kragujevac remains one of the judicial centres, but I will try on behalf of my parliamentary group to raise myself to that pedestal of objectivity and to give you the most good intentions of solutions that I don't think are good at. It is true that in these underage three years, the existing network of courts has shown a great shortage. The scope of the inflow of the case is almost 1:7, which means that one judge or prosecutor is seven times more burdensome than one of his colleagues who works in another court and is particularly expressed in the First and Second Municipal Court in Belgrade, who have 30% inflows in 2012 compared to the inflow of the case throughout the year. You can imagine citizens of Belgrade or those who are tried in front of those two municipal courts or lawyers and parties seeking justice, what their life and legal position is when trials are scheduled for seven, eight, nine or ten months, and then for some procedural reason they are delayed, etc. You have now suggested that there are three basic courts in Belgrade, i.e. three other courts in Mladenov, Obrenovac and Lazarovac. Our opinion is that more courts are still needed in Belgrade. If we look at the judicial units for the territory of residents from eight to 70, the simple bill suggests that Belgrade with nearly two million inhabitants cannot meet the needs of the judiciary from its three basic courts in the territory of the city of Belgrade and that we will not be much further away in solving existing problems without talking about how many judges have cases in work, by several hundred. Secondly, the criteria taken into account by the working group for the construction of the network of courts and judicial units are fair. But it seems to us that they have not always measured well and many of them do not know, except on a geographical map, where certain places are located, so with the invitation to tradition, traffic, population, area of the municipality, availability of justice, etc., it is clear that they did not weigh well. I'll give you a few examples. From Lazarec to Valjev is not full 40 km, and we have three basic courts – Lazarec, Mininica, Valjevo. I don't mind. But, let's say, from Cačka to Ivanjica is about 50 and something, close to 60 km, mountainous area and Nušić, our great satirist used to serve in Ivanjica and there was this joke in his day – you will go to my service in Ivanjica. Ivanica is a nice place, there are good people, but there is no logic that the municipal court from Guca is bound, or the people of the Municipality of Luciani to be tied to Ivanjica, because there are no traffic connections, there is no tradition, there is no habit of people going to that court, etc. It was perfectly logical to remain a judicial unit in Guca and to be bound, as far as jurisdiction is concerned, which was traditionally the case for the General Court in Chačka, and even a better solution is to be the basic court in Požega or to be tied to the Court of Justice in Ariel, because traffic and all other connections are much better. Like this, especially in winter conditions, many will not be able to physically go to Ivanjica. If we compare that link I mentioned - Lazarec-Valjevo and the Lucani-Invadica connection, then we'll see that some of these criteria are not respected. Secondly, there is a building in the state property in the current Guca judicial unit in which the state invested in 2003, the Criminal Court, the security service, the heating costs, the IT network in the court was well established and we think there are indeed many reasons why the court should receive its judicial unit and be in the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice in Cacca. The next similar example is the municipalities of Varvarin and Cicevic. Since 1907, if I'm not mistaken, Barvarin has had his own basic court. These are municipalities with nearly 30,000 inhabitants. The current Barvarin judicial unit served to ensure that citizens of Cicevic and Barvarina exercise most of their rights there. Indeed, one such two great places will now be tied to Kruševac, where even the accommodation capacities in Kruševec are not so good. In the present main court building, the judges are holding it, I have seen it personally, objects both on the floor and on the closets and on the halls, and yet there is a court building in Barvarin. A lot of judges, I think, eight of them, then an assistant, a deputy prosecutor, their family, and 11 lawyers with their families will move to Kruševac. If we talk about even development, about decentralisation, about these European movements, believe me, in these two places with the loss of judicial units will absolutely lose another perspective for the rest of the people in those places. Because the example works, despite the fact that the state has really invested a lot of infrastructure in Guch in recent years, Guca is permanently losing its population. With the judicial unit leaving, he will surely discourage all those who want to be educated and stay in that place. For example, in one of the oldest buildings in Guca there were once more children than there are now tenants in that building. The demographic process of emptying Serbia as a whole will be with some of the proposed ones, and we continue with poor solutions. I don't think you're the only one responsible for this. I know you've had a big problem with such a small number of judicial units satisfying all those who, in your opinion, should have a judicial unit or a basic court, but, let's say, some solutions are good. Let's just say that Topola has a judicial unit that's tied to the court in Arangelovac is fine. It's 12 or 13 kilometers, depending on which way it goes, old or new. The people of Topola had a problem, especially in the winter conditions to come before the former district, and now to the senior court in Kragujevac, so these are good solutions. But we also have a court in Piroth and the Court of First Instance in Dimitrovgrad. It's getting close again, traffic is good, it's flat, so there's room for the Ministry to accept some of the amendments. We have also followed the amendments of the other parliamentary groups, and we have also submitted an amendment in that direction to, in our opinion, make these illogicalities that exist, but, I say, in the best interest. There are a few more excuses for us, if we compare the other solutions, in addition to this amendment and our proposal. Sopot, for example, has a judicial unit belonging to the Mladenovac Court. Sopot is again geographical and traffic very well connected to Mladenova in both winter and summer conditions, so there is no problem. Old Paz has a basic court, and a court unit in India, if you look at some other criteria for us, it's more logical that it's the other way around, to be the basic court in India, and the judicial unit in Old Paz, but that's not what gets the citizens particularly excited. What citizens are particularly interested in is the loss of either the basic court or the judicial units. Of course, we fully understand that with the beginning of the work of public notebooks and notaries, after the amendments to the Law on Implementation and Security, many of the problems that are now indecisive will begin to be resolved. But despite the fact that the majority of the court cases, we are talking about litigation and criminal proceedings that are the most represented in the court, and this court is, and the most burdensome court against all other courts, it seems to us that some judicial units still need to be moved differently from existing solutions. As far as the Court's Regulation Act is concerned, of course it's a good thing to introduce a court manager. About the trial within a reasonable time, one million examples of practice we have had, violations of this elemental human right, and that is still present today. It is certain that this constraint of the Constitutional Court, by objecting to the citizens of that kind, the imbuedness of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, indicates that we as parties absolutely advocated a more comprehensive reform, a root, for applying those solutions that have given the best solutions in the world and that are suited to our conditions. When we talked about it, and Mr. Vladan Batic, who was a respected minister of justice, thought the way we are now thinking. He is the only justice minister who then, with a high personal council, resolved 200 judges who were indeed, not only for resolution, but also for other proceedings. It is the minister who initiated the organisation of the Special Court for War Crimes, suggested the establishment of a special court for organised crime and corruption. It's a good thing this government is on the verge of fighting organised crime and corruption, but if it was heard in time, Mr Batic, we would also have a Special Court for Organized Crime and Corruption in addition to the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime and Corruption today. And not to mention, he gave his dignity back to the judge's profession, because at the time he became minister, it was thought that in the judiciary incompetent men and women of wealthy men were working. In the campaign, Mr. Vladan Batic pledged to raise judges' wages on the then unimaginable 1,000 marks. This has indeed been achieved, that the materially technical conditions of the court's work will be absolutely improved, and that has been done. And many, many buildings like some courts in a small place, such as the Court of Osecina, or the Court of Justice in Guca, have received indeed, thanks above all to Mr Batić, a decent appearance. What I forgot to say, as far as the network of courts is concerned, is that I doubt that you'll be able to complete the schedule of objects, archives, material technical means, people, and everything else by 1 January 2014. It is not a full month and a half, when the law comes into force, I think you should accept a proposal that will extend, because otherwise in January we will have a special session to extend the deadline. I know your intention is best, but it's just hard and real. As far as the Law on the Regulation of Courts and this address is concerned, directly to a higher court for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period, this decision has its advantages, as we see that the Constitutional Court, in addition to being too busy to have certain selections, as regards the objection of citizens. Well, for instance, in the case of the murder of a guard in Topcider, the case has long been unable to obtain the Constitutional Court's decision on the appeal of the trial within a reasonable period of time. But that's why Mr. Miskovic's case is extremely resolved, I think, in two months' time, compared to the reception. I don't think it's bad that Mr. Miskovic's case was resolved, but I think it's bad that he hasn't solved the subject for the guards and many other items that the public is interested in. Obviously, there is a large dose of inconsistencies in that part. As far as the judge's discipline is concerned, I think, given their public function, one of the most significant functions, that these are solutions that are good, that it's a good introduction and judicial days. Then, unifying court practice, appeals courts with supreme cassation courts. Then, international legal aid from administrative courts, especially the assistance of the Supreme Council to witnesses and even damaged persons in particularly sensitive cases. Because, despite the fact that we have an institution of witness associates, we are witnessing that in many cases in particularly sensitive cases, witnesses are still exposed to enormous and inappropriate pressures, not just witnesses, but damaged ones. With regard to the Law on Judges, if anyone looks at the programme of our political parties, then they will see that we are the principles that we have first promoted with the establishment of our political parties, they are independence of the judicial functions, the continuity of the judicial function, the public in the selection and assessment of the work of judges. All the proposed solutions are acceptable to us. In any case, we will vote in favour of the draft laws on judges because they strengthen the responsibility of judges. It is valued in a better way at the performance of the judges. The High Council of the Judiciary will have freed hands to propose candidates for judges with training at the Judiciary Academy, but we have had certain complaints in this regard that no candidate from the Judiciary Academy should be favored in relation to any candidate who meets objective criteria to be elected judge. As far as the Public Prosecutor's Law is concerned, it is according to us, regardless of what the report reads as it is drawn up by whoever puts it together, that perhaps the greatest quality is that the National Assembly will receive an annual report on the work of the Republic Public Prosecutor and that we will finally be able to discuss such a report and adopt it or reject it. There are also certain objections and contradictory interpretations of the Justice Minister's initiative to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office for the assessment of the work of certain judges. On the one hand, we can understand that because until now, when the public spoke, of course I'll see a roof over the entire judiciary, the Ministry said it wasn't competent. On the other hand, we're afraid of the possibility of misusing one of these institutes. Just to conclude, Mr. Chairman, I thank you and apologize for over time, we will support these bills except for the network of courts, and we will decide on this by your declaration of acceptance of the amendment, and support the network of courts, depending on the position of the Justice Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25520	The word is made by MP Dragan Andric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25521	Dear Chairman, Mr. Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I believe that, as well as the employees of the judiciary, they were eager to expect sets of these laws, especially the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. First of all, for reasons to see which solutions will be offered and that many of them have returned to their homes and that they do not have to travel daily to work for what was caused by the previous solution. I think their enthusiasm fell rapidly when they saw the solutions you've offered, especially in this court law popularly called the network of courts law, and we from the Social Democrats League of Vojvodina really hoped that the solutions would be a little different. We were hoping we didn't have too much expectations since the previous proposal you pulled out of the procedure wasn't a happy solution for us. Unfortunately, we have an opportunity to see in my opinion the worst solution to the network of courts so far. We see one free to say - the deliberate breaking of the established seats of the courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, unlike our colleagues from the SMV, we from the League of Social Democrats, Vojvodina think that this is exactly the key issue and that it is precisely the biggest problem that individual courts and judicial units, or some senior courts, are focusing on appeals in Belgrade, and certain judicial units are relying on some other basic courts, which has not been the case so far. For this very reason, we in the League of Social Democrats feel it is not good that this law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it is not good that this law is being discussed here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. A much better solution would be to propose the law to the government of Vojvodina and to discuss the law in the Parliament of the AP Vojvodina as a legislative body compared to the courts on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I can see that the chairman is smiling, but I have to remind you, it's a solution that once existed and Vojvodina once had these powers, she had the authority to arrange a network of courts in her territory. Also, she had a Constitutional Court and I would like to disarm these conspiracy theorists immediately, Vojvodina was then as now an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and it should, as a matter of fact, remain there, but with these powers. Why am I saying this? I'm saying this for reasons why it wouldn't have happened then if Kovin were the Smedereva Judiciary Unit, it wouldn't have happened for the Supreme Court in Pancheva, if the appeal had been in Belgrade, not in Novi Sad, as it has been so far. It is clear what intentions are being expressed here, it is clear that it is again seeking the centralism of Belgrade to decide how we will all live in Vojvodina, those in Nis and Novi Sad, in Subotica. That was the intention of this bill on the network of courts. We in LSV see very clearly what your intentions are, and we believe that this is not the way to the EU, that this is not the path you are supposed to lead us as a government, because you are talking about it, because the EU does not know centralised of this or any other type, so I am warning you and I ask you not to do so. Vojvodina has certain specificities, specificities that are defined by tradition, historical heritage, specificities that have been nurtured for centuries, have been nurtured since the Second World War, and for these very reasons is the AP. Once again, please don't do this, tell me that you can do better than us living in Vojvodina to know whether Kanjiji needs a basic court or not, whether Kanjiji needs a judicial unit or not, whether Covin should be a Pancheva judicial unit or be a Smeder's judicial unit. Is Buck Topola supposed to have a basic court? We know very well that Backo Topola should have a basic court and 150 years is a long tradition of the General Court in Backo Topola? Why is Buck Topola suddenly a judicial unit, and why doesn't The Tower have a basic court? That's the question. You handled the number of cases, which are resolved in certain courts, you were led in the distance of certain judicial units, I suppose that will also be the answer for Pancheva, since Mr. Minister did not talk about it when he talked about the reasons why Panchevo, the High Court in Pancheva, is an appeal in Belgrade. I suppose the answer will be that it is the distance of Panchev closer to Belgrade than to Novi Sad. Also, the New Prince is closer to Kanjizi. Ada and Choca are closer to Senti, and they're gravitating towards Kickinda. Was that a criterion? I don't think the criteria were that, I think the criteria were different natures. What is also very significant, regardless of the individual right to use interpreters in court proceedings, is collectively the right to use language. A SNS committee member in the Subotica City Assembly, where I came from, went out for a pay phone and said – it is a Cyrillic letter and a Serbian language in Serbia and it is true, but it is also in cities, in Vojvodina it is in the use of six official languages. In cities using different languages. Specifically in Smederev, in official use it is not Hungarian, and in Kovin it is. It's not in use or Romanian, and it is in Kovin. We of LSV will certainly address international institutions to protect the use of language and letter regarding this law. We are also talking about the financial resources needed to build a network of courts, so we have 66 basic courts in the Republic of Serbia. If the AP Vojvodina had original incomes, as the LSV advocates, do you think it would be a problem for Bucky Topola to get a basic court? Of course he wouldn't be. Do you think we can decide if Vojvodina would have police authority? You'd have that, too. For that very reason, we will never give up on our programme, on the fact that Vojvodina has legislative, executive and judicial authority and original incomes and property. Then we ourselves will be able to arrange a network of courts and everything else in the way we feel is necessary, as we consider it best for the citizens of Vojvodina. If you didn't have the best intentions to propose these four laws and their amendments and additions, you can also see from the public prosecutor's law. What I've noticed is that you've expanded, you've pretty much expanded what it means to remove the public prosecutor's office, and then it's considered to be a abolished and public prosecutor's office that changes the territory he's working on, and then, subsequently, the public prosecutors from those prosecutions continue to function as deputies. Why is the public prosecutor's office considered to be suspended, if it continues to exist in the seat in which it exists until then, a new prosecutor's office is established in the territory and it is necessary to appoint a new public prosecutor, not a deputy, in order to bring in those you think are similar. That's also not a good solution. Let me round up, as a basic law, is a law on the seats and areas of the courts that are very important to us, and we believe that this is a fundamental political issue for this whole group of laws. We have made amendments and we warn you to adopt our amendments and to respond in time to prevent centralism that I see smiling again. We know how far this has led us, as far as centralised of Serbia has led us in this way. Stop that in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25522	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25523	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with great care and patient listening to the debate, I must respond in certain situations when information is given that is not true. So start from exactly what Honorable counterpart Varga has drawn attention to, not by the Law on the Network of Courts, but by the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, it is regulated that a language and letter of a certain minority community will be used in the area, i.e. in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. There is absolutely no dispute here, not the Law on the Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, and I have to express this opportunity, although it does have something to do with this subject that you have been talking about, but I must express great satisfaction and with the participation of representatives of national councils of national minorities in the current work group's work on amending and supplementing the Law on National Councils of National Minorities. One extremely constructive approach, I would point out, among other things, to Professor Korhec, who in one constructive way approached it and I can point out that we have very good co-operation. So, not the Law on Courts and districts and public prosecutors, but the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, which is necessary in Serbia, because the law in force has been well overcome and is not in line with the level of minority rights that have been defined by the Constitutional and other laws in our legal system. I'll remind you, when you're already calling for something from the past, the Novi Sad used to be the seat of the Danube Banovina, so that the bannina went well on both the Sava and the Danube and caught up with the good parts of the Forest. Skopje used to be the Serbian capital, so it's not anymore. Some things have changed. I don't know how you didn't say that in the area of the Court of Appeals in Novi Sad, the area of the High Court is coming in at the Whispers. Why didn't you mention that? Now it turns out that someone is disrupting something that exists in Vojvodina. People from Panchev, when they head for Novi Sad, are closer to going through Belgrade than going through Zrenjanin. By Belgrade, they needed 17km and Belgrade and Panchevo were well-recognizable in 1929 as future confrontation. So, joining more cities into one city. This happened with Belgrade and Zemun, with the strengthening of infrastructure, we hope, an economic recovery. This will happen between Belgrade and Panchev. Now that you're going between many cities, you don't feel like you've gone from one city to another, and this is an example. Just an example. I don't know what the problem is with cost rationalization. If you have in mind that we are the Law on Judges, this is what Mr. Spasojevic said earlier, that we planned that the costs of separate life and travel expenses be recognised exclusively to the holders of the judicial functions of the republican and appeal rank, would not it not be better to be from the Pančeva High Court, or that judges who will be elected from the area of the Pančeva High Court to the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, to travel to Belgrade instead of to Novi Sad. I don't see what the problem is. Besides, there's something I need to draw your attention to. The concept of appeals courts does not aim to create different legal areas in Serbia. So, practice, whether it's newly-sadic, whether it's a Belgrade, Norwegian, Kraguje's appeals court, it has to be even. If we're already calling for the past, then we can see that the very diversity of the legal areas has led to some path that I don't see a threat at this point to lead anything. And if they're going to come from Covin, there are, you're right, people are used to things. And this law in some parts is trying to change some maybe worse habits. I still think one of the most multiethnic cities in Serbia is Belgrade. When you look at the number of members of different national communities that live in it. I don't see what's going on here. Thank God that's right. Thank God we have so many languages in our official use in the AP Vojvodina, because I think that as a nation and as a state, it can serve us exclusively for honor and pride and nothing else. Are you saying that someone who lives in Kovin and who, for example, is a member of the Hungarian national community, I say on purpose -- communities, it may be rude to say to minorities or Romanian, that I will be denied the right to trial, or to conduct proceedings in the mother tongue? The court is obliged to do so. Now I'll give you one piece of information. Members of minority communities make up about a third of the Vrsac municipality population. Recently, in the high court, where the most numerous minority community is Romanian, they had a problem in ensuring in such an environment the conduct of proceedings in Romanian. The problem is solved by the judge's reference and therefore there is an institution of reference. There's something Mr. Varga was talking about when we adopted a national strategy and I was really interested and I met to a full extent with the dimensions of this problem, conducting a procedure in the native language of the party in the process, but you know what it's like? In the sense that not only administrative workers in court, but also holders of judicial functions that come from the order of a national community do not know the professional terminology in the language in which the proceedings are conducted. The convincing majority of them know much better professional terminology in Serbian than in their own language, and that is something that they will need through their specialist programs to deal with the Judicial Academy, to train these people, in this sense professional terminology in their languages. That's the court's task, you can't say that because it's going to go eight kilometers now from Kovin to Smederevo, in other words, you've seen that this law introduces the possibility of being tried in a judicial unit, not just in civil matter, as it has been so far. I really don't see a problem with why such a single question would be unresolved. You have the judge's guidance institute, and I think it should, on purpose, be in the interest of the judges, who are of the order of the other national communities, to be perfected and to be referred if necessary, because I remind you, the reference is something that is also in the criteria for the assessment of the work, but also, judging by the days that we have heard only from one MP so far, the mentions should serve as a priority in the evaluation of the work of the legal holder himself, so, if it is referred to in these cases that I have stated, or if he goes to certain municipalities on the days that come. You're saying why doesn't The Tower have a court? I suppose this observation of yours came because you didn't follow, the truth in my opening statement today wasn't about it, but I talked about it a few times. So you have a Vrbas and a Tower that's about a mile away from each other, someone would say 11, someone would say seven, anyway, we could meet in the middle, we could say it's the most. So when you look separately at the Tower and the Vorbas, they don't have the necessary number of cases to be separate courts. If you bring these two cities together and you give them the Serbian you get a court in whose area lives somewhere around 104, 105 thousand inhabitants, you get one serious court. There was really a question here whether we were going to put the seat of the court in the Tower or in the Vrbas, because both the population and the population structure, so how many lives in rural areas, how many in the urban environment and by the number of objects, which is very important, are approximately equal to each other. So we're going to have trials organised both in civil and criminal matter and in the Tower and Vrbas, but that's why we're going to relieve the Supreme Court in Novi Sad, which at the moment covers 10 municipalities and one city, 680 thousand inhabitants, and then the Vrbas who wasn't and the Srbobran, will come into the Great Court area in Sombor where at this point we don't have the burden of judges, when compared to the New Sad, these are incredible proportions. On our side absolutely well-intentioned suggestions were. Of course, I respect that part of the MPs has drawn attention to some exceptions to the criteria. It's important that you establish a rule and most cases are solved by the rule. That's exactly what most cases are solved by rule, and exceptions, here and there, you have to have. It's just an exception to what it indicates is the existence of rules. I think, more or less, I've responded to everything you've started, the most well-meaningly possible, but in this I don't see, so in our procedure, absolutely nothing that you've called some conspiracy theory. Unfortunately, what we are witnessing, compared to a period of 20 or 25 years ago, Serbia in general, and the AP Vojvodina itself, is an area of permanent depopulation. There's less and less people. There's less and less law enforcement. Whether they're physical, whether they're legal, it doesn't matter. We are opening up perhaps one topic in Serbia that is not to be spoken out loud, which is because unfortunately because of the loss of the population, we are getting an increasing and larger number of municipalities that are losing their capacity to be municipalities. They're losing capacity. You today have a situation in Serbia that in some municipalities you can hardly find a graduate lawyer who will be head of the municipal administration. You say – no Europe. I don't see how centralization is done here. Centralization might be to abolish four appeals courts, and introduce one, which perhaps for a country of seven million and 300,000 inhabitants is a measure. One California has ten times as many inhabitants and has one appeals court and is incomparably more developed than Serbia. You say - Europe is not centralised. Are you saying that France is not in the EU? The most centralized country of the West. I'm not saying that's great. You should always find some balance, some middle, I'm not a born Belgrade citizen. As much as I'm against Belgrade, I'm also against new plantings. Any downing in one center isn't good. Let's do something to measure our current possibilities, which is rational. You've changed in other applications as well. I don't see anyone getting up and saying, "Here, that's what's changing." When you mention the police department, let me mention it. It's much more important to me how it's done than how something's organized. Is the organization a measure of need? Perhaps it would be best for us, as a state, to have our neighborhoods returned to large cities, so that instead of one police station you have 10, 15, 20 district stations. We don't have any money for that. That's the point. We don't have any money for that. Let us create some conditions that legal certainty, that legal predictability, which is very important, is raised in one way and to one level that will enable an adequate economic recovery of Serbia and that will allow the rule of law at that level that is necessary in Serbia at this point, but much more than possible, we are going along the lines of opportunity, I am convinced that we will also achieve what is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25524	The word is made by MP Dragan Andric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25525	I'll try to be brief. I didn't say anything about the High Court in Capco and the appeals in New Now. Also, I don't think that's a good solution. I think you understood me very well when I was talking about the relativization of Vojvodina's autonomy. That's right, the past is what it was, and the future is what's waiting for us, but that doesn't mean that we shouldn't change what we are at one point, our history now, I mean that 1988, 1989, year, change, practically, constitutional coup, that doesn't mean that AP Vojvodina doesn't need to return the legislative authority she had, it doesn't mean that the Vojvodina Assembly wouldn't better solve the network of courts in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I think we're coming to what I suspected, to say. You said in one part of your exposure that it was going towards the cities joining together. You mentioned at one point that Panchevo is seeking to become an integral part of Belgrade, I suppose it should become a municipality of Belgrade. I don't know what the citizens of Panchev think about it. We can take good and bad examples. We can say that some state is more or less centralised. We can say that some rights once existed, and there are no more, and some may exist in the future. Perhaps some government will have more understanding that comes after you for the needs of the citizens of Vojvodina. There are exceptions to the rule, but why those exceptions? Why Kanjiza? Why The Tower? You explained. It makes sense. I don't want to be hard on you. I don't want to say that... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... are essentially your intentions bad. I've just pointed out some things that we've noticed and that we think should be different. For this reason, LSV MPs will not support this law in this form. Whether our amendments will be adopted, we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25526	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25527	You said what the citizens would say. You know, in some cases, you'd probably be a citizen, so here's an example of Kovin, running some of your own habit. As someone who worked in our country's education system, I can tell you that 90% of Pancevacs are studying, not in Novi Sad, but in Belgrade, that 90% of them are being treated in Belgrade, not in Novi Sad. I'll remind you of that time you mentioned. You mentioned that with a certain coup, I don't know what, it was done. I wasn't involved in that, and I believe you weren't involved either. As I recall, the AP Vojvodina was the last surviving Swiss education system reserve, which was insane. So, in Belgrade, children learned in one way, and in Panchev on the other. Let's get somewhere to handle real life reasons. When you ask people where it's easier for them to go to Novi Sad or Belgrade, a city where more than 100,000 people live? Vršac is closer to Belgrade than to Novi Sad. Geography is just like that. We didn't determine where it was going to be. This example here is expressed to this extent because we're talking about a big city, we're talking about a big court, we're talking about a court where there were extremely serious problems. When you look at the statistics and the annual reports of the courts on work, worrying about the problems in the work of the Panchevic courts, worrying. No one reacted. If there is, and we can agree that there is a major problem in the executions in our courts, the Pancheva court is one of the champions in Serbia. What I just said, so it's a matter of equating court practice. I don't see on the proposal these solutions as some kind of act, as you said. No, I think this will improve efficiency and streamline costs for the sake of it, but of course not at the expense of justice. What you mentioned earlier, I can really only support this bill. The National Assembly is not something that the government will only go through with the acts it proposes. You have witnessed that during the previous period as the authority representative of the Government, representing certain draft laws in this assembly, I have been a proponent and a law that the Assembly has amended with its amendments. I am convinced that in just one good and fruitful debate, both in principle and in particular, those parts of this bill, as well as the other three draft laws, as well as those in other searches, will be corrected to a certain extent, where the majority in the National Assembly recognizes it. Thank you. I'm sorry if I took too much time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25528	The word is by MP Mirna Kosanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25529	The President-in-Office, representatives of the ministry, respected colleagues and colleagues, as today we will discuss in the joint principle debate the draft law on seats and areas of courts, public prosecutors, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Prosecutors, the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia requires the establishment, organisation, jurisdiction, regulation and assembly of courts to be governed by the law, and that is the reason for these proposals to be found before the parliament of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, this matter has previously been regulated by law, but during their application certain normative shortcomings, which consisted of inadequate territorial organisation, have been inadequately divided by jurisdiction between basic and higher courts, from inequality of practice, which is all leading to problems in the functioning of courts and the exercise of the rights of citizens, in particular to a fair trial, i.e. a reasonable trial, as fundamental human rights, which are guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and which are entitled to democratic societies. As this matter is divided into four different but mutually complementary laws, we will speak individually of each of these laws. The draft law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, the applicable law has been implemented since 1 January 2010 and only 34 basic courts and a large number of judicial units are currently in place under this legal solution in Serbia, 102 of them. The number was replaced by a previous number of 138 municipal courts. It has been observed that such a solution is inadequate and that it would be celery to increase the number of courts to 66 and reduce judicial units. This proposal is based on an analysis of work so far, on the annual inflow of cases and on the need to make the judicial authority more accessible to the public in order to achieve full, effective protection of rights. A large number of judicial units, among other things, have led to ineffectiveness, cost increases, as many proceedings have been conducted outside the court's seat, showing overall insufficient capacity, with the security risk of permanent transfer of court files outside the court building. The existing network of courts and public prosecutors has proved to be dysfunctional, expensive, with the unequal burden of courts and judges, public prosecutors and their deputies, which in itself leads to an unequal approach to courts, i.e. justice, inequalities of citizens and parties, legal uncertainty and ineffectiveness, as well as in major labour shortages, and in an unwarranted length of judicial proceedings, which can also be considered a legal and political problem. To solve these problems, i.e. In order to contribute more effectively to the work of courts, not only must the network be improved, but it is also necessary to implement and implement other laws, not only contained in this set of laws, but also those which, according to their matter, also improve the work of courts and relieve citizens of major problems so far, which are the Law on Public Records, the Law on Enforcement and Security, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which will particularly affect the removal of some of the jurisdiction of the basic courts from the courts themselves, which would be in the interest of citizens. One of the legal solutions of the Belgrade court's network as the capital is that instead of the two basic courts so far, the First and Second Court, with four judicial units, six courts are established, the First, the Second and the Third Basic Court and the basic courts in Lazarovac, Obrenovac and Mladenov with the judicial unit in Sopot. A similar solution was given to the prosecutor's network, just as it was given to the courts. The change of the network of courts involves the establishment of new courts, as well as the change of the area, i.e. territory for certain multiple courts. For example, the Supreme Court in Belgrade has the area of six Belgrade basic courts, as well as the area of jurisdiction of the appeals courts, which also extends territorial jurisdiction over the one established by the existing law. The aim of this law certainly is to establish an effective, efficient, modern and economic judiciary, in order to achieve the right to access justice, an effective solution to the problem of citizens and businesses with as little cost as possible, with rapid decision-making in the interests of society as a whole. The right to trial within a reasonable period of time and the right of the party in a court procedure to decide its rights without undue delay, this right is guaranteed by the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights, which the Republic of Serbia has ratified, thus accepting the obligation to respect that same right. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts, the applicable law was passed in 2008 and application began on 1 January 2010. In its application, the existing law showed a number of shortcomings, primarily in the division of jurisdiction between primary and senior courts, the inequality of judicial practice in the proceedings of the Court of Appeal, which in total with an inadequate network of courts has contributed to a major problem in the functioning of courts and the exercise of citizens' rights to trial within a reasonable period of time. Legislative solutions proposed by a better legal framework to improve judicial practice and for more effective trials, the solutions proposed so far have effects on all courts. It is the High Council of the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice, the citizens and legal persons. The jurisdiction of the senior court in the first degree is extended for all crimes against humanity and other goods protected by international law, as well as for the crime of corruption, regardless of the threatened sentence. The jurisdiction of this court shall be extended to decide by appeal against decisions of the basic courts in all measures to ensure the presence of the accused, e.g. which is a detention, as well as for crimes for which a sentence of up to five years has been threatened. The jurisdiction of economic courts is extended to the regulation of copyright and related rights and other rights relating to this matter, by exempting from their jurisdiction the conduct of proceedings in disputes relating to liquidation and bankruptcy. With regard to the jurisdiction of the criminal and second-degree criminal court, it shall be governed by the jurisdiction of the criminal appeal court in the second instance, which shall be brought by the authorities of the administration in the criminal proceedings, which falls within the jurisdiction of the criminal court. It also extends the jurisdiction of the administrative court to provide international legal assistance under its jurisdiction. A significant paper prescribed by these provisions is in the provision of Article 2 where Articles 8a to 8b are added, which provides for the possibility for parties who are considered to have been injured by the right to trial within a reasonable period of time to address a directly higher court with a request for protection of the right of trial within a reasonable period, and would, in accordance with the proposed solution, be directly superior to the court, if it considers that such a request is justified, set a lower court within which it is required to complete the proceedings, and may also provide for a temporary compensation for the infringement of the right paid out of the budget. If a senior court finds that such a request is unjustified, a negative decision shall be taken, the possibility of appeal shall be allowed to the Supreme Cassation Court. The idea of the legislator is to increase judicial discipline and reduce the number of constitutional complaints filed by the Constitutional Court, as well as the number of representations to the European Court of Human Rights. At this point, however, citizens and the professional public face a kind of dilemma about their ability to exercise the rights guaranteed by the Serbian Constitution. Serbia's constitution envisioned the possibility of submitting constitutional appeal as means of legal protection not only of those human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, but also of those rights guaranteed and arising from the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Namely, the constitutional appeal represents a very effective remedy within the legal system and is a prerequisite for citizens of Serbia to make up and be able to present before the European Court of Human Rights. From the legal options offered by this law, and as mentioned above, it is possible to refer directly to a higher court in the event of a breach of the right of trial within a reasonable period of time, it is not precisely stated whether the citizens who believe that they have been violated by the Constitution remain in a parallel position to make a constitutional appeal with the possibility offered by this legal solution or are lost in the future, since the Constitutional Court protects human rights in cases where the possibility of judicial or other protection is not provided for under the Constitution of guaranteed rights, including the right to be tried within a reasonable period of time. If such a legal solution is a way of improving the position of the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Justice, to reduce the damage in this regard to reducing the number of performances, then the proposed legislative solution should be accepted. The proposal for this law and extending the jurisdiction of individual courts and organisational changes would reduce the number of old cases since the analyses show the highest number of cases in basic courts. Some newspaper of laws such as the introduction of the governor of courts, a more rational relationship with complaints of citizens, professionalisation of the work of judicial assistants and the transition of the ministry's jurisdiction to the High Council of the judiciary are in any case signs of modernisation and new perceptions of the rule of law. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, the applicable law adopted in 2008, which has been applied since 2010, regulates the position of judges, the procedure for their election, the termination of judicial functions and the reasons for resolution, the position of jury judges and the disciplinary responsibility of judges. Since the practice pointed out that the provisions relating to the independence of judges, as well as other principles guaranteeing its position, referring to work in another court, the provisions on disciplinary responsibility, are not sufficiently precise and have been approached by amendments. We're going to talk about the most important thing now to improve the work of the judiciary as a whole. Of course, attention should be paid to the provisions relating to the responsibility of the judge for the damage caused by illegal or irregular work. Namely, when a decision of the Constitutional Court, the European Court of Human Rights or another international court finds that human rights and fundamental freedoms have been violated in the course of the proceedings or that the judgment has failed because of the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, the judge will be responsible for the damage only if it has been done on purpose, leaving out the possibility of collecting damage caused by extreme negligence. The provisions of Articles 11 and 12 now uniformly regulate the evaluation of judges and presidents, and the evaluation of judges is entrusted to the Commission of the High Council of the judiciary in which judges and members of the Commission will evaluate the work of a lower-level judge, since they also have longer working experience in the judicial capacity and because of the possibility of direct insight into the work of lower-degree judges. In the event of disagreement, there is the possibility of objecting and the possibility of conducting a administrative dispute. The decision on the termination of the judicial post must be reasoned, which has not been prescribed so far, and the discharge procedure shall be initiated on official duty or on a proposal from other persons and other bodies. The bill limits the time it can be set to serve as acting President of the Court and will set shorter deadlines for the duration of this situation. A significant newspaper refers to Article 100 in the political party, political action, and is limited in this respect to the right for the judge of the jury and these rights for judges are identical, as well as to restrictions relating to judges. The provision of Article 30 of the Law provides for provisions relating to serious disciplinary offences that are being resolved by the judge, such as the limitation of the case being considered a serious disciplinary offence if it is found to be an unconscious act of the judge, unless there are circumstances that the judge cannot influence, when the case is physically not in his jurisdiction. The objective of these amendments is to consistently implement constitutional provisions governing the position of the judge and compliance with international standards. So, one necessary legal framework is given to improve the work of the judiciary in general, to make it effective, efficient and modern with a reduction of the accumulated deficits. In view of the scope and content of the amendments, of which only the most important ones are mentioned, we believe that the law will act positively on judges in the judiciary system in general, including the High Council of the judiciary as an independent and independent body guaranteeing the independence and independence of courts and judges in relation to other participants in the process and society in general. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, since practice has shown that certain provisions of the applicable law relating to the independence of the public prosecutor, the hierarchical relationship of the prosecutor's office, the duration of the election and evaluation procedure, should be specified and complemented by international standards. That's exactly what this bill does. The bill also provides for the public prosecutor's duty to carry out his duties professionally, securely, impartially, fairly and without undue delay, with the obligation to take special care of the protection of the damaged, as well as to prevent discrimination on any basis. The new law allows a public prosecutor's office to cover the area of higher basic courts, which is in line with the principles of rationality. The mandatory instruction given by a directly senior public prosecutor must be in writing, and it is the obligation of the public prosecutor to reject any action that affects the independence of the public prosecutor, which strengthens one of the basic principles, the principle of independence of the function. A significant change relates to the election procedure for the public prosecutor's office, and predicts that the State's major prosecutors may, when proposing an election, draw up a ranking list of candidates on the basis of the pre-determined criteria, published on the internet, while the discharge procedure may be made public if it is requested by the public prosecutor against whom the proceedings are being conducted. Based on everything that has been stated so far, we can conclude that on the basis of the proposed amendments and additions to the laws that lie ahead of us today, justice in Serbia could be made available, effective, independent in all parts of the country, correcting the mistakes made by creating a new network of courts, identifying the problems facing courts and prosecutors, especially those facing Serbian citizens. We think that the proposed set of law in the area of the judiciary is a response to the perceived problems, that it will certainly contribute to the overall legislative and judicial reform, as well as to the European integration of the Republic of Serbia. Based on what has been said, we point out that the SDPS will support the proposed laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25530	The word has the People's MP Cedomir Protic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25531	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is a law before us, like everyone else, a very important law, which solves problems in one very important area. I'm going to stay a little longer on one problem that I'm personally in, and there are such problems in other environments and in other areas. The Luciani municipality used to have a happy court, then a municipal court, then a judicial unit. This bill suggests he doesn't even have a judicial unit. The Municipality of Luciani has 22 thousand inhabitants, 36 local communities, 454 square kilometers. This bill proposes that the Luciani municipality's General Court be in Ivanjica. The better solution is that it was in Chačka, but we figured out why it was set to be in Ivanjica. In practice, we have been brought into one situation that citizens of this municipality will not be able in many cases, on many occasions to respond to the court, because it is 70 kilometers from Guca to Ivanjica, where three transports have to change. A citizen from the upper part of Dragačev must come to Luciane, from Luciano to take a bus to Požega, from Požega to wait for the bus to Ivanjica. There's little chance that the citizen who went to answer the call from the court in Ivanjica could be surrounded to come back. Except if he's not going to his car. Not to mention the costs of this man, a citizen who has been raised three times, but that the Court of Justice in Chačka, or negligible costs if the judicial unit were to be in Guca, which I think the minister will have a lot of understanding and insight into the problem. We were talking about tradition. The Luciani municipality has a tradition and a court building in 1949 and 1950 built citizens because they had no court. The previous one was destroyed during the war, so we were identified on Cachak. If a judicial unit in Guca were to be abolished, it has 18 officers who would have to be transferred to other courts. It's also increasing the cost of the state. If they were to travel to Cačak, those expenses for 11 months are 2,200,000, if they were to travel to Ivanjica 2,500,000. As an MP, it would be a lot easier for me to explain, and if I could say by abolishing a judicial unit in Guca, a state in this situation that saves 10,000 thousand dinars. That would be easier for me to say that's why the judicial unit is being abolished. But I don't see that that's why, because just because these officers are going to travel, they're going to have an increase in costs. It is true that the Guca court building is a decent building, which was published and brought into a decent state in 2003. The citizens told me that we didn't build a building in 1949 and 1950 for something else, but for a court of law. Whether I was wrong or not, I don't know, I said - she won't be empty, there'll be a court academy. Mr. Ambassador, our fathers didn't build this building for the academy, they did it for the court. The court is based in Guca, which is about the center of our municipality, so the citizens I believe have equal rights with others to seek protection in court, can come on foot, and they remain a tractor. They can't go to Ivanjic like that. Secondly, if this judicial unit were to be abolished, we fear Mr. Minister that some citizens may not take the court into their own hands. Since they don't have a court in Guca, they'll solve the problems themselves, whether there was a problem between whether this or that. That wouldn't be good and meaningful. You probably had some vision when you thought you needed to cancel that judicial unit in Guca, because we don't know the real reason. I heard you well, perhaps even from that place you said that we would arrange for the judiciary to be in the service of the people. I may be a little immodest, but I even expected that in each municipality there would be a judicial unit, she had 22,000 inhabitants as the Luciani Municipality, or she was 12. You probably found some reason, you're justified, so that's not done. Maybe there would be some costs, for me the same, maybe smaller, I can't get into it, but I can tell you that we're very unhappy with this proposal, because we think that one of those areas of the municipality should own that, at least a judicial unit. How dissensive is the Municipality of Luciani, one part of the Municipality of Luciani is attached to Požega, and one part is attached to the King, precisely because of this dissension. I repeat once again and responsibly claim that citizens will not be able to respond to an appeal by the court in Ivanjica. Not because they don't want to, but because they're changing three transports. The transport is so rare, it usually goes from the upper part of Dragačev to the Lucians in the morning and they return in the afternoon. It's mostly because of the workers. When the court calls a citizen to court, he watches his schedule and his captainship when he will call him. A large number of citizens won't be able to leave and return to Ivanjic in a day's time. The judicial unit in Guca has 6000 cases which are in the executive procedure and in the procedure. I can't tell if the weakness is a judge which is this number of cases, but it also proves that a judicial unit in Guca should remain. Imagine when we get that number of cases into someone else's court. The court in Ivanjica doesn't have much room capacity. I personally feel and I am pleased to have talked to other MPs who have supported me and consider what we have examined, that this must be one of the more justified reasons for the government, or the minister, to make a solution for the judicial unit to remain in Guca. Once again, I ask that these data be considered and that you accept the amendment that I have submitted, so that the citizens will be satisfied. I'll vote for these laws on judges and prosecutors. But I have to wait, in order to define the government's decision, or the Minister of Resistance when it comes to the court's schedule and the judge's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25532	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25533	Thank you, Your Honor. I consider it necessary that, for the sake of citizens and for the closer information of themselves, I respond to this kind of exposure. Namely, the first thing, as I said earlier in the replica of your one colleague, is that there will be no judicial units in one city, and it is intended not to be where there really are no rationalities to be. You gave one piece of information, which I believe you have received – that there are 6,000 items in Guca. Unfortunately, there isn't. I have to tell you that delegations of different municipalities spoke to the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, asked for reception, were dignified, some talked to me when it allowed time, some talked to my State Secretary, and each presented some of their data on the number of cases, and the data on the number of cases was obtained by an insight into the computer system that tells you exactly how many cases in a particular judicial unit or court. Does that mean there won't be a trial? It doesn't. I mentioned the days ahead. Why haven't they been here by now? Why didn't the courts arrange it? There were a few reasons. The first reason was because the overwhelming majority of municipalities in Serbia had a judicial unit. If we were to consider this possibility which you have explained, that the court is traditionally called a court in Guca, although the municipality of Luciani, to be directed to the basic court, or to be part of the main court in Chačka, we would thus abolish the rationality reason that there is also a basic court in Ivanjica, speaking of the number of cases, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the court in Chačka which is already burdened with the number of cases we would add to the burden. That wouldn't be significant, because according to statistics, there's only two judges to be dealt with in a court of law in Luciani. It's not just two judges, every judge has to be followed by the proper staff, you have to make up for his expenses, and that's exactly what you said. But if the reason for rationality shows that, say, hearings should be scheduled in the Lucians once every two weeks, then that's where they should be organised judging by the days. And we don't need citizens to worry about how they're going to get to Ivanjica, because the president of the court in his annual schedule has to predict how many times, and based on statistics, they're going to go to Luciane. What I'm concerned about and what citizens don't know most of the time, and believe me, that's what startled me when I looked at that raw statistic, in municipalities like Lucian, or like some other municipalities, let's say the municipalities from which I came, the largest number of objects with growth tendencies are objects in desert matter. It tells us that, unfortunately, in these municipalities, the people are increasingly dying. This is why I was talking about starting the Law on Public Records on September 1st, because according to the exam so far, a total of 111 candidates have passed, and now a second, or correction period is being implemented for those who, within the last test period, have been written and have said that they are postponing their oral replies. What you said about citizens going to have to cross 70 kilometers, that's not true. Namely, from Guca to Ivanjica you have 26 km when you go across Kotraja. (People MP Cedomir Protic throws out of place. You told the court in Guca, I watched the distance. We can always find the farthest point or some village where three other people live and where there's no one to fight about the border. I know, I'm from a village like that. You know, when there's no law enforcement, there's no need for justice. Unfortunately, but that's how it is. If we manage that logic, we will come to the data that Belgrade is the most damaged, because here every municipality should have its own court. I will immediately say whether this bill on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors is perfect – far from that. You have a situation, say, of the township of Grock, which by the number of inhabitants and by the number of cases deserves to have its own court, but we simply don't have any judicial infrastructure in the area of that municipality. Is that something to do in the future? Do you work that way? We'll consider that possibility and work on it. We've got a problem, just before the mentioned Kovin. There was a building built in 1998. It's a great building. Unfortunately, we no longer have the case to be court. Will it be arranged once every two weeks for the judge to come and judge here? Yeah. It will continue to be until the establishment of a public-book system in the area of the municipality an open judge's office in which citizens will be able to verify all the letters they need, to hand over the court's mail. That'll work. You know, in some countries, when they found themselves in some sensitive historical moment, trials were organised in schools, in public buildings, when they had a big problem in holding a trial because they didn't have enough room to do it. There's an opportunity here to organize judgment days, and why wouldn't that be organized? So that's the problem. By my original profession, I'm a legal historian. What would I like more than to keep the continuity and tradition of the existence of institutions somewhere? We keep it wherever we can. The court should be in Mionica, because it is one of the oldest courts in Serbia. In the Belgrade area, the oldest first court was established in Sopot, in Sopot municipality. It's simple. Where there will be a court, the judge must have something to do, because his colleague in Belgrade has five, six or eight times more jobs. They both get the same salary. You will admit that it is not the same 100,000 dinars in Chačka or Ivanjica and Belgrade. It's different in a good way. By transferring a significant part of jurisdiction in the out-of-party procedure from the court to the public notary, I will note that the work version has been completed to completely amend and supplement the Law on non-partisan procedure, very serious and very important, which will prepare the introduction of public-recording into Serbia. He mentioned fellow Chikiriz changing and supplementing the Law on Implementation and Security - correcting some of the mistakes made in establishing a private enforcement system. So will citizens feel this in everyday life? He won't feel it. But if we'd gone with some extremely large number of judicial units, it would have been the same if the citizens hadn't felt it, but it would've felt a hell of a budget. So let me, as they say, conclude this answer to your questions. The organisation of the work of the courts will depend on how much justice and how much access to justice will be present in Serbia. We started with the election of the President of the Courts, the High Council made proposals, the National Assembly began to elect the Presidents of the Court, where the President of the Court was elected, and that is where discipline in the work can be seduced. I wouldn't agree with anything else you said, and you said yourself -- I've never been to a courthouse in Ivanjica, but I'd say they don't have the capacity. They also have these capacities. And I think, given that Ivanica, who was in the area of the Great Court in Užica, is now coming to the Great Court in Chačka, that these solutions that are presented will satisfy the needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25534	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Cedomir Protic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25535	I have the information that the cases are in execution and the court data I said. We don't put in, Mr. Minister, any objection that our primary court is in Ivanjica, because we realized that Chacak is overloaded, and that Ivanica may not be, so you've reported it. We just accept that. But it can't be one municipality of 22,000 people, so dissociated, with such traffic connections as it is in our municipality, you found that care is from Guca to Ivanjica 30 kilometers, but it's from Guca to Luciana 20, down to Jelendol eight more, so it's different. From Guca, okay, but they don't go to trial in Ivanjic just from Guca, but they go from below, from Morava, we disagree. I have no intention of misleading anything, and this information that I have for the cases, it's taken out of court, but if I hadn't just made a mistake, it's in execution and in procedure, so much in total. I'm sorry, because I don't like to give any information that's not right for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25536	The word has a folk MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25537	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a national who says three times, so cut once. In the case of these draft laws, you did the opposite. From April to September this year, ten legal proposals related to the judiciary arrived in parliament. In fact, two, three times you've proposed certain amendments and additions to these judicial laws that are on the agenda today. We have now received this third version and this third version is fortunate to be found in a parliamentary debate. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Minister, how are you in the government adopting laws? How do you let them into the congregation procedure, if you need to submit the bill several times, then withdraw them, then re-retaliate, then withdraw again, and finally get a set of judicial laws that you say have certain potentials and that reformal nature? We remember, just a year ago, you said you had no intention of reforming the existing judiciary. You have indeed turned that intention back into your opposite of July, when this parliament adopted the National Strategy for Justice Reform on your proposal. There is a certain discontinuity with the right political will to change more seriously in the Serbian judiciary. At least you're actually sending messages like that. When you say you advocate the efficiency of the judiciary, of economics, you advocate that citizens have access to justice, you advocate that they are justly tried, these are values that we really support. So, the LDP supports these principles and these objectives that you are declaring and which you state as reasons – why it is necessary, among other things, to pass these laws, because there are obviously not enough elements that could confirm that in Serbia it is justly tried, that citizens have access to justice, that it is an economic trial and that it is effective. That's what some exact data is talking about. That is what 13,000 complaints from citizens filed by the Constitutional Court, 17,000 complaints brought to the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, is the fact that over the past two years 300% have increased the number of citizens who have addressed the European Court of Human Rights, which speaks enough about what you have done in the past year and some days and to what extent Serbian citizens do not continue to trust the Serbian judiciary. In addition to this data, I would remind you of the fact that, for example, in 2012, you have 18% less resolved cases compared to 2011. Trends continue for 2013 and, meanwhile, 10% decreased inflows of new cases. The number of existing old cases increased by 19%. That speaks enough of the efficiency of the judiciary, not to mention the other principles. Now you expect us to support this set of judicial laws, you expect us to support everything you've suggested. As a reason for that, you're saying that you've been considered, that you've been effective in your work so far, because it's assumed that you've returned about 600 judges, now you want to change this network of courts and prosecutors, you want to change the Law on the Order of Courts, the Law on Judges, the Law on Public Prosecutors. So when we begin to analyse these individual laws, we can establish a few concrete facts when it comes to the Law on Headquarterss and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors. What this debate also carried out and what's clear at first glance is that it's about one, to a large extent, political proposal of the law. When Mr. President of the Committee on Justice, the Assembly, spoke of the seats of the courts, he noted, among other things, that he was forced to talk about it because of an election campaign expected, and citizens from where he came from expect to have both the basic court and expect all the benefits that citizens expect from the authorities. So it is obvious that recent elections are really expected and that, among other things, this law is in place, in addition to all that, in this future election campaign. Why is it still my opinion that this is a huge contribution to the politicization of the judiciary? The fact that you changed the jurisdiction of the appeals courts, and that of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad and the Court of Appeal in Belgrade, by replacing Shabac for Pancheva. The new Sad gets the Sabbath, and Belgrade gets the Panchevo. It's not geography, Mr. Minister. The smallest problem here is the spatial distance of Panchevo from Belgrade and Panchev from Novi Sad. In fact, here is the problem with the government's attitude towards autonomy, Belgrade's attitude towards Novi Sad. So it is obvious that there is still one elemental ignorance of what the province of Vojvodina is and absolutely unknown of the fact that Vojvodina with its potentials is really ready to make its huge contribution to Serbia's modernisation. In this way, in which you very subtlely and perfidibly deny the autonomy of the province of Vojvodina, you clearly send a message of what the Dukes can expect for the future when thinking about autonomy. There's no other reason for this solution that you've offered. Normally, citizens will not travel to the appeal to be tried, they simply use the appeal as one appeal court. There is no benefit for citizens when you make this exchange of jurisdiction between a city in Vojvodina and another city located in central Serbia. Another member who is absolutely proof of my claim that this is about one political law is this Article 12, which speaks about the establishment of courts and public prosecutors responsible for the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. Their seats and areas in which they exercise jurisdiction are governed by a special law and that is fine. So LDP policy is clear on Kosovo. It is clear that you have taken over the LDP policy, but obviously you have some problem implementing that policy. What is the problem with implementation? It's about honesty. It's about you being obliged to tell the truth. When that truth is silenced, then LDP and Serbian citizens have the right to say you are not telling the truth. I apologize in advance if anyone found themselves offended about it, but you simply encouraged me when you said there were some crazy solutions. If the chairman did not warn you that, within the meaning of Article 116, you should, among other things, take care of whether you will offend someone with that term, I am also called and invited to tell you that here in this article there is no truth and there is a large amount of honesty missing. The other thing that is also problematic is the increase in the number of basic courts. You're saying that the judicial units weren't a good solution, that now you're going to change something more important with this law of yours. Here's what you're gonna change. You've doubled the number of basic courts, and instead of that 102 judicial unit, besides some judicial units you've left, you'll be setting up these reception temporary offices, allegedly until the start of the work of public notebooks. In fact, you're going to have more basic courts, and where you don't have basic courts, you're going to be left with judicial units, so whatever you call them, that's actually it. So much for efficiency, so much for economics, first of all, which was your main reason when you were talking about the need to change the number of basic courts at the expense of these judicial units. To go back to that kind of honesty, that is, the truth. There is a problem in Serbia when someone who feels that the other person is not telling the truth cannot clearly and loudly say that he is lying, because that term is in the opinion of many, and that the chairman also knows very well, offensive, regardless of the fact that someone is not telling the truth. So a lie can't be better. We can't use euphemism to cover a lie. It's just like when you, in a court of law, turn yourself in for the assassination of the prime minister of this country and tell him that he's a murderer, you get a warning from the chairman, or the judge, who says it's offensive for a murderer. No, the killer's a murderer. He's legally convicted and there's no euphemism when it comes to such a serious crime and act. These are some nuances that only talk about how much it takes to make a slightly different policy that has already been accepted as its own and realized. When we talk about the Law on Court Orders, we could especially point out a few key things, at least in my opinion. Let us immediately proceed from Article 1, where you restrict the influence on the court proceedings to inappropriate public action affecting the course and outcome of the court proceedings. Your accent is on an inappropriate public level. Mr. Minister, any advance that is directed at the impact on the course and outcome of the court proceedings is inappropriate. You don't have to step it up and you don't have to prove your honesty, your commitment to change the situation in the Serbian judiciary by adding only one term more when you talk about influences on court proceedings. When you read Article 1 you must remember what it was like to start a story about whether the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the legislation of this Parliament is having an impact on the judge in some criminal case. So that is the problem when such a significant person, in terms of the importance of the function he has in this House, acts contrary to all the principles of a fair, fair trial in Serbia. I'm really surprised when you focus on co-operation between courts and state authorities and underline how much it takes and how you change it. So it is another change of more technical nature that will not significantly change the situation in the Serbian judiciary. However, what will significantly change this whole Serbian trial system is your recommendation that, in fact, principled legal views be abolished as such, calling for the Constitution and what the Constitution provides. You're talking about uniform legal practice. You simply won't be able to even legal practice if you don't have these principles of law and they're so important that you have this unique legal system, a unique legal space and everything you stand for, and you just talked about it. It is interesting that, in addition to all these technical changes and almost non-essential changes, you, in fact, in this Article, paragraphs 3 and 4 of this Article. The law on the regulation of courts simply fails to make some important changes in terms of preventing the executive from affecting the court, so the whole of your change, let's say when it comes to your jurisdiction, in terms of the judiciary, consists in maintaining facilities and equipment. So you remain in the need to monitor the work of the courts. You will allow, it may be too wide a definition of monitoring the work of the courts, what all of this can be done, because you are also talking about collecting statistics and other data in the work of the courts, giving consent to the rulebook, etc. But this monitoring of the work of the courts remains very undefined. When we talk about the Law on Judges, we can't simply avoid the entry now, but the President of the Supreme Cassation Court who publicly called all the judges of the High Council of Justice and prosecutors, or representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors... (President: Your time is up. I'm sorry, I just want to finish my sentence. So that's the problem when the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation finds it appropriate to influence you by asking for the replacement or resignation of judges and prosecutors, even for moral reasons. It's actually an influence on the judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25538	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25539	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to agree with something my predecessor said, which is that in the past few minutes, a great number of false things have been said and it's materially false. It is not the same when you say that there are about 17,000 pretences from the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and you will allow in the Ministry of Justice and State Administration there is a sector to represent the Republic of Serbia before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. I just got the information, because unfortunately it changes from day to day, that the number is slightly smaller than 12,000. It's an awful large number, but it's not the same number as 17 and 12. It's not the same thing when you increase something by 50% and then you say it in front of hundreds of thousands or millions of viewers, and you say it's the result of working someone who's been leading a resistor for 15 months. Far from it. Unfortunately, we are at the very top of the member states of the Council of Europe, which have seen the number of conclusions growing from day to day. But what I'm happy about is that one of the laws that we propose to amend and supplement gives a kind of more effective mechanism for changing and extremely poor statistics. It's one of the bad conditions in which our judiciary is located, not a year, not two, not five, but many more years. I would like to remind you that the largest number of deals is caused by irregularities in the privatisation of social enterprises, the failure of war logs, the case of pensioners. It all ended up in court. The courts did not have the capacity to carry out these proceedings to the castle. The citizens addressed the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg and therefore the number of representations is as high as it is. We'll agree, and 17,000 and 12,000 is extremely much. The problem is very serious. We've shown both will and willingness and now a way to solve this problem. So, we've done something. Is that enough? Let's start doing that, see how it goes. Thirteen thousand constitutional complaints. Yes, constitutional complaints from 2010 to today. For the first time in 50 years, the Constitutional Court has also obtained adequate accommodation capacity. When I talked to some of the judges, I asked why it was such a high number. They told me - we don't have room. So, as foreseen in the budget, the systematisation and the human resources plan to employ co-workers to work in the preparation process to resolve these constitutional complaints, but simply in the old building they did not have the basic conditions for work. Now they've got them. I am convinced that through this mechanism that is expected to start to apply, through increased, or improved accommodation capacity that will enable them to staff up in their work, a lot will be done to address these problems. But it's very unfair to expect a magic wand to change that. I wasn't the one who promised a magic wand and spoke – this will be done in a year's time. We've seen how an attempt ends when you want to change something in the judiciary in a year. An extremely complex complex system. A system where some of the MPs worked directly, some indirectly. You know very well that it is extremely difficult in a short time to radically change things in the judiciary, in an extremely sensitive system. You know, in conversations with our European partners, I've often heard that the main change that requires change in people's minds and mentality. I absolutely support that fact, that sentence. But it takes a really long time for such a change. This was one of the biggest problems in one of Italy when a judge’s work assessment was to be introduced and their standards were introduced. It's an extremely big problem. It was just said, it's a political bill. I don't know what's going on here, so this is one of the few excellencies of the political bill. There's one thing that's been said that bothers me. I believe it wasn't malicious, but for the sake of the citizens, for the sake of the MPs, of course, I will read that they really see. So we've identified something together, and what we've identified together is called -- it's fundamentally ignorant of what the autonomy of the Vojvodina is. Elemental knowledge of the autonomy of Vojvodina is concentrated in Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution makes it very clear: “Autonomic provinces, in accordance with the Constitution and their statutes, regulate jurisdiction, choice, organisation, work of the authorities and services they establish. Autonomous provinces, in accordance with the law, regulate issues of territorial importance in the area (1) spatial planning and development, (2) agriculture, water, forestry, hunting, fishing, tourism, catering, spas and spas, environmental protection, industry and crafts, road, river, river and rail transport and road planning, fairs and other business events, (3) education, sport, culture, health and social protection, public information at the province level. Autonomous provinces tend to exercise human and minority rights in accordance with the law. They determine the symbols of the province and the way they are used. They manage the province's property in a way that is stipulated by law. In accordance with the Constitution and the law, they have original revenues, provide funds to units of local self-government to carry out entrusted tasks. They bring their budget and final account." I may have another version of the Constitution, but I don't see justice anywhere here. Mixing jurisdiction in the area of justice, with the competences of an autonomous province, is an essential ignorance of what the autonomy of Vojvodina is. The sooner I said, as a legal historian, I'm also someone who thinks that autonomy in some things and how it makes sense. It was also the result of decades-long and centuries-long struggles of the Serb people once in southern Hungary to fight for their autonomy. What I am proud of is the fact that Serbs, fighting for this autonomy, have also fought for the rights of other neighbours, friends, who were not the same nationality, the same religion or language as they. I am proud of the fact that at one point the biggest and most Serbian lawyers came from this area, but I am not a supporter of politicisation and the adoption of autonomy issues on some day-to-day political issues, or of a political idea that one advocates. Autonomy is a constitutional category, it's very clearly restricted, and I think we should stick to it. You said, or it was said that this would not lead to cost rationalization. I claim he will, especially when it comes to how much money is really being wasted on the irrationally organized judiciary. If I tell you that you have officers at this time, I'm not talking about legal holders, I'm talking about officers who work in a court of law in Pirot, and they travel from Kursumli every day, it's an example of extreme waste of money. If I tell you that in the Court of Justice of Nis more than three years ago, the cost of a separate life and all the benefits paid to the judges of the Court of Justice, not living in Nis, is so much money, that it could function in full capacity, another basic court, then this is proof that the funds were being spent irrationally. If we have in mind that the new Code of Criminal Procedure has begun to be applied, and that only civil matter has been tried in the judicial units, that there are no prosecutors who can carry out the investigation, then this is a more rational solution. The reception offices, listed in the transitional and final provisions and very clearly, will exist until the public register office is established. It's not the same as the cost of working as a judicial unit. When we talk about the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Regulating Courts, the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, I take the opportunity to state that they are the result of the work of working groups that were exclusively made up of renowned holders of judicial functions, respected professors of law schools, lawyers. We have respected, adding, their proposals have been significantly larger changes, and the definition of the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration is that changes should go step by step, closely monitor each change implemented, analyze and move on. To mention Article 70, which speaks of the jurisdiction of the district of the judicial administration, if it were to be managed for personal reasons, at this point I would give up all the competencies that are listed here as the jurisdiction of the ministry and tell the State Council, please, you would like to sit down to negotiate with 13,500 employees in the judiciary and the prosecution, which, by the way, was to be transferred to the jurisdiction of these bodies by the 2008 law. The problem was that four years ago in the adoption of such important changes, in the current state of justice, it entered completely unprepared and clumsyly, in such a way that the State's major prosecutors and VSS personnel capacities they had were absolutely unable to respond to the tasks and competencies assigned to them, which gave their results, very badly. The public mainly followed their work on correcting the lack of re-election, the 2009 general election. For example, the results of their financial operations since 1 January 2012 are devastating. The strategy that we have discussed here, adopted by the National Assembly, has defined that the nature of the work and work of the Justice Ministry, which is responsible for the affairs of the judiciary, is well-changed and that is the tendency that follows the requirements and the EU when it comes to the integration process. We can have different views here as lawyers. As a lawyer, I was closer to the view that it shouldn't be changed. Why? Because 90% of judges and prosecutors were not trained to run some authorities, they were not taught that, and that's why there was a problem at one point, in the work of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors. So, because it's right in the heads of these people, in mentality, in their profession, and they were finishing colleges in the '60s, '70s and '80s, the first person of the judiciary for them was the minister of justice, and that changed. The rest of the people are the same. And today, when the citizen comes out, dissatisfied with the court, he will be the trees and stones, not by the judge, not by any VSS or the State Council, but by the Ministry and the Minister. You'd see by the number of performances that really come to the Ministry. Our commitment is to transfer these powers from the Ministry to the State Council and the VSS, and some have already crossed. Do not be unprepared to give them something, so that we have a situation, as we had from January 1st 2012 to January 1, 2013, when due to the unprofessional financial business of the High Judicial Council, a delay of over a billion dinars was made, when no single financial control went to any of the only courts in Serbia, when we had courts in which all the judges were compensated for the preparedness of 562 hours a month, each individually, so they spent their budget long before the end of the financial year. Then someone came up with it, I really wonder what bright mind it was that the acquisition of a stapler in court could affect the independence of the court, or the purchase of paper for printing. It's crazy to me. Should the judge be independent? Yeah. In his free conviction, when he comes to judgment. It's something that's everywhere in the civilized world. Let's just say, I don't know how it promotes those who are calling for Europe, I'm not talking about anyone in person, but to look at statistics, which are Europe's most effective judiciary? According to the SEPEZ report, the most effective judiciary is, Austria's judiciary and the Czech judiciary. In both states, the judge has appointed a minister of justice, and in Germany as well, and we have been somewhere in our constitutional and legal system in the area of justice for decades back trying to conjecture on the mix of French and German models. Now the Union is asking us to do what other countries have done, which have entered the EU in the last wave. We can discuss whether it's good, whether it isn't, but as a country we've plotted, we see some future of this country's political integration, we're required of us. This was filled by other countries in our environment, some less, some more successful, for us criteria are the strictest and we have to do it. I'm supposed to be quoted as saying that I have no intention of reforming the judiciary. That's not true. When you quote somewhere, you try to make it literally the way it is or paraphrasize it. I said, I don't want to make reforms. What does that mean exactly? There are organisational laws that are in legal traffic and apply. If we had gone into reform, all the laws, some changes and additions, would have been completely changed. We didn't do it. I.D.'d problems where they exist. Now, no matter how many times you read and look, when you read, I'm convinced that whoever wants to observe objectively, and now you take and you read the suggested texts, where you thought it was a good thing, it might come to you to add something, take something, change something, add something, think it's normal? I apologize for taking so much time, but I think when we're criticizing something, that we should do it well, if we mention the numbers to be correct, and if we have a problem, let's see how to solve the problem. I am extremely pleased that I have now encountered an extraordinary co-operation of MPs in the National Assembly who have been constructive for these past more than a year, often knew that the proposed legislative proposals, to amend and supplement the laws and to improve them and give them a new quality. I'm sure that's the way it's gonna be this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25540	Thank you. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, MP Bojan Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25541	Articles 27 and 107. It was 20 minutes, no objections for 20 minutes, it's fair to talk like that, but at least one minute about what Minister Selakovic was talking about was a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure, you didn't react, let me explain. So you let the minister say that the MPs, in this particular case, my colleague, Judita Popovic, essentially does not know the Constitution and doesn't know what autonomy is. So, if this is a criterion and autonomy is only what the current Constitution says, then the minister should write in front of Hans Kelsen, not Nikola Selakovic, but it is not a topic. Tell me, Mr. Selakovic, why this kind of dishonesty? Is there any need to talk in the congregation about what autonomy should be, or is it just a matter of what the Constitution says is autonomy? Where does the Constitution say you are passing a special law on the regulation of courts in Kosovo? Where does it say in the Constitution of Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25542	Mr. Djuric, please, have you advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure? Then don't rephrase it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25543	I have no intention of ever talking to you again, Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25544	Don't, because I respect the Rules of Procedure, and you're breaking it, and that's why you and I can't find a common word. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now you're speaking to the Minister, I beg your pardon, how can you and I find a common word? He can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25545	I'll rephrase, then I'll address you after you've broken the Rules of Procedure. Where does the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia have the authority to pass a special law on the regulation of courts in Kosovo? Then you answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25546	Mr. Gjuric, I am not here to answer you, but I am here to lead the assembly, this session, and I am not in charge of it. Please don't be rude, I'm trying really to be tolerated, and you're just using it all the time now and you're throwing a ball at me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25547	One sentence. You broke the Rules of Procedure, now you've told me I'm rude. Where's the limit to what's laughing? I don't think, well, you can say he's rude, but don't punish the MPs when they use a similar word, just set a rule. You said 20 seconds ago I was rude.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25548	I don't deny that I didn't say that at all, but you challenged me with your behavior. I don't know, I don't have a way to tell you that, simply. If I've offended you with that, I'm willing to apologize for that. So it wasn't my intention to insult you, but I just didn't find a better word for it. Do you want to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure? (Bojan Đurić, from the place: No. Thank you. Judita Popovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25549	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I really don't want to bid with you about the numbers, 13,000, 17,000, 12,000, completely irrelevant. I've only been giving you information for the last two years, Mr. Minister, and don't lose sight of this country already having a payment obligation of 1,600,000 euros to all those European Court of Human Rights regrets in Strasbourg against the state of Serbia. So this is a picture and an opportunity of the Serbian judiciary, including that of the judiciary for which you took responsibility about a year and a few days ago. Mr. Minister, the lack of system problems in the judiciary is producing these consequences, and Serbia is in fourth place behind Russia, Turkey and Albania by the number of complaints to the European Court of Human Rights. I think that's enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25550	Mr. Minister, since it's time to take a break...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25551	After the break.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25552	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We'll be back in 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25553	We're going back to work. The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25554	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's proceed from a moment ago. It is really important when someone's work is criticised and some bad results are being talked about, including the number of performances that Serbian citizens have submitted to the European Court for the Protection of Human Rights, whether you're talking about numbers of 10, 12, 13, or 17,000. It is a sad fact that there are so many concepts at all and that there is one trend in the growth of this number of performances before the European Court of Human Rights, which come from Serbia and which are indicators of the poor work of our judiciary. What is more important, however, is that this bill on the regulation of courts really introduces a mechanism that has the chance to become an effective means of reducing, or reducing, the number. There was talk of taking responsibility. Yeah, and how we took responsibility. We suggested this mechanism. I personally attended the annual meeting of the Venice Commission when it was spoken, that is, when expertise was made on our then draft laws. It is said to be an efficient system, but it should be well prepared for its application. As a result, a request for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period has been laid down not to apply from 1 January of the following year, but to leave a somewhat longer period for its application. What is the autonomy of the AP Vojvodina, it is defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I made that provision in 183 and quoted it. Clearly, our founder made a clear distinction between the autonomous provinces that exist in our legal system. Already in the preamble of the Constitution, the AP Kosovo and Metohija enjoy the position of essential autonomy and thus differs from the position of another autonomous province. I don't think there's any need to continue to answer those accusations and qualifications that were made in the performances of the predecessors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25555	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger, Milisav Petronijevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25556	The President-in-Office, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Regulating Courts, Judges, Public Prosecutors and Proposals of the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, I am fully in agreement with a single sentence of the Minister, which is aimed at creating a legal basis for a more effective trial, for more effective work of courts, and what I think is even more important, for more effective exercise of citizens' rights. The proposed laws of the Government and the competent ministry show us the intention, show us the direction and set the goal to be achieved, to establish an efficient and economic network to ensure the right to a fair trial, the right to justice within a reasonable period of time, a simpler and faster approach to proceedings before judicial authorities, an effective and easier approach to court as access to justice of every citizen, a better organisation of work and reduction of the costs of justice, a more effective and more efficient decision-making, i.e. raising the quality of decisions. We think that these objectives, these intentions, that direction deserve absolute support and the SPS parliamentary group will support both the intention and the direction and the goals that they want to achieve, and yet all to ensure that fundamental rights of citizens, the right to access justice, the right to trial within a reasonable period and the right to a fair trial. So the goals, the intentions, the direction have our absolute support. A big problem facing the judicial system in our view, among other things, in a few of the important things that I'm going to say. It is pointed to a non-functional network, an unequal burden has been pointed out, an unequal court practice, an unequal approach to courts, the inequality of citizens and parties, legal uncertainty, inefficiency, major backlogs in old cases. All this negatively affects the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law. That's why I'm adding another one to these previous intentions, directions and goals, which is to restore trust in the judicial system. I'm going to make a few facts about the importance of resolving these issues, so let's say, when it comes to a reasonable trial, I'm using the data that you have listed here by the European Court of Human Rights for 2011 in 6,750 cases. The largest number refers to that. The Constitutional Court of 2012 of 2,587 decisions, 2,112 found a violation of law and the most injury to the trial within a reasonable period of time. That says how important it is to get into solving these problems. What is also a characteristic of our courts, it is a large number of pending cases, almost 60% of the old cases, if in Serbia it is 1,647,349, with an increase compared to 2011, I point out this data due to the following, which is where we will remain the most, which is that the highest percentage of the old cases had basic courts, almost every other unsolved case or had 44.65%. All this is about the need to take action to resolve these issues. Another present problem we face is the problem of unequal burden on the courts, or judges. According to the data you have here, the average inflow of the case is from 31 to 178, so 5.7 times becomes a difference. I have to say that's a very serious question because it's not fair to those judges who have 178 cases, without questioning any other judge. These questions deserve to be found in the process of solving. You provided one piece of information that the second basic court in Belgrade was the one that had the biggest inflow, on average 178 cases. I will only add that the First and Second Court in Belgrade, in the current way, has a third of the total cases in Serbia. Why did I bring all this up? To tell the judges an honest sentence. These are the judges who had the highest average inflow, let's say the Second Basic Court, then the First. They also have the most average cases solved, but unfortunately because of a large number of cases, they have poor awareness. Why do I mention this? Because the territory for which they were founded and the population is not large, but huge. Belgrade had two courts for an area of 3,227km square and nearly two million inhabitants. In such conditions, when there is not enough neither courtroom nor space, when the trial has to be postponed, etc., it shows that one of the great problems is the bulk of the court. I also warned during last law-making, I warn you now, and only the one you spoke of today at one point, which is the Second Basic Court, covered an area of 2,000 square miles. You know, when Belgrade is mentioned, people usually think that this is the central part, which is between the tram tracks in a circle of two, and Belgrade stretches from 80km south to Ljiga and 40km north. So, vast space, vast territory, and a vast number of inhabitants. And that's when I said and now, the biggest changes were made right then in Belgrade from nine to two basic courts. What I want to say right now when it comes to this section, specifically the headquarters and areas of the courts and prosecutors, is progress is being made and I want to support and praise it. First, second and third court. So three courts for the city area and three courts for, as we say, the suburban area. I would simply like to draw your attention, with the support of this solution, and the First, and the Second and Third Court will have to continue to follow each other, because both the second and the third have over half a million inhabitants. Even so, it's much better than it was, but it's still over half a million people. I need to support one of your sentences that you have today, I think, by the way – this is the first step in implementing the strategy. I also want to say to draw attention to that second part of your sentence -- which, when adopted, has to be monitored tomorrow as to how much the effects of this solution will be given to propose changes immediately and so on. So this three over 500,000. A court has been formed for Lazarec, for Obrenovac, who are cities with 60,000, 70,000 inhabitants, a complete continent and one Mladenvac with a judicial unit for Sopot and Barajevo. I don't think there was a need for comparison between Kanjija and Sopota, although they are individually with an approximate population, because this is a judicial unit for two municipalities, and Sopot and Barajo. When you add that up, it's 50,000 inhabitants. It's huge territory, about 500 and some squares. It is 12,000 weekend houses that also have some need for judicial protection, and therefore there are many grounds and I want to support that approach, although I believe that further work should seek solutions and create opportunities for Sopot to be a court, as it is the oldest court in Belgrade, formed two centuries ago by the Decision of Knjaz Miloš in 1827 with vast territory. Two municipalities would cover. I'm also referring you to the need to continue looking for opportunities for other municipalities, above all for Grock. You mentioned it yourself. There are about 100,000 inhabitants. We think there are all the conditions to create the possibility of having their own judgment. I want to say that there is great progress and we will support it, but I also want to draw your attention that there are some respectful criteria that you have given, both basic and supplementary, for the formation of a court, or judicial unit. Not to read them here now, they are elaborated there, from the number of inhabitants, from accommodation facilities, opportunities for development, dissociation of municipalities, etc., in addition to the basic criteria of the number of objects. I want to warn you in terms of supporting these objectives that I have been talking about, that there is something more to be taken into account among these criteria that I think is most important that there is no breach of the availability of justice for all citizens, that they are fully allowed access to the court. That, in my opinion, is the main criterion. With respect to all these criteria that I consider fair, I think we should bear in mind that in small municipalities, the court is not only an organ of the judicial authority, but it is a special phenomenon that is very important to that municipality, because it brings together educated people with all those categories that make it. By going from there, the middle is empty and there's pressure on the centers and then we get into a situation where we get back huge, or bulky vessels. By supporting your proposal around the seat and area of the courts, I invite you once again to take a good look at every proposal. And we have made some amendments with a view to supporting you in the direction, intentions and objectives. We have offered concrete solutions that do not raise questions, and they can help make the law applicable in the coming period. I'm not gonna take up your time now compared to those details. I'm just drawing attention to the need to look at each of them, because it seems to me that, as many positive reasons as there are, support for increasing the number of basic courts, a large number of municipalities are left without a court. Let it be an old way of thinking, the best solution is, of course, if there are economic possibilities, that each municipality has its own judgment. That's the best solution. That's when access to court is the best. But with that support, I ask you once again to see if it's a good idea for 47 municipalities to be left without a judge and a judicial unit. Respecting everything you've talked about, all for the reason that by passing these laws we provide as much support as possible to make what is important applicable in the next period. Of course, we'll talk about it specifically when the amendments are made. I want a few words to stick to these three next laws. When it comes to the law on amendments to the Law on Regulating Courts, I want to point out the first part of which is to protect the right to trial within a reasonable period, you have spoken of it in detail, and all because of the information I spoke about earlier, how many pending cases we have, etc. Therefore, the possibility of a faster and more effective response within the judicial system to shorten that deadline. And not just that one. When it comes to a reasonable trial, we also have this in the Law on Judges, where it is said that even in the act that a judge may be able to pay compensation for damages, if it has deliberately led to it, and even that the case may be taken away, under certain conditions, of course, and all in order to ensure the effectiveness of the trial. I'm not saying anything but the direction of what I was talking about, what are the problems and why we have to solve them. When it comes to damages and disciplinary offenses due to the judge's intentional influence on the trial within a reasonable period of time, it is all very precise and fenced. So if the judge did it on purpose, if it wasn't for objective circumstances that affected it, but it was for the judge in negligently to do so, we support it. But, at the same time, the state can't be abliable from it. Some damage must be paid. If it's not a judge, who is it? Either in proposing solutions that will lead to it not being that possibility, or someone in the chain who did it. So it can't be that nobody's guilty, it's too bad huge, it's huge, and we're looking at how to save some money at the same time. My question is about the judicial units. I think that, later on, when there's a chance for that, you should explain a little more precisely that they can be tried both in court and in court. Even so, you say, in certain matters. Therefore, "determined objects" would be very important to clarify the part fully. Because if that is to be tried, all those trials that have been tried only in the basic court so far, then it's completely irrelevant whether it's a court or a judicial unit. It's going to be different in the number of judges, managers and all sorts of other things we're talking about. When it comes to the evaluation of the work of judges, what is the jurisdictional profession? There's no politics. So, the High Council of the Judiciary, a panel of three members, a senior court in terms of degree above. And that's good. As is good and this transparency related to the proposal of the judge, as is good transparency related to the fact that and the President of the Court, as it is good to come out with a programme on how to improve it, as it is good for this transparency to be and when it comes to the transfer of the judge, because the Court's opinion is also being sought where the court is going from, and the opinion of the court to which it comes. (President: Time, Mr. Petronievich. ) Since time is running out, I wanted to point out a few of these questions, given the goal, the intentions, the direction you want to go, what you want to achieve, or what the effect is. The effect is that the citizen feels better, that he has the right to a more effective trial. With all this in mind, we will give support to this, and what we have proposed, some concrete solutions, we just want to make a concrete contribution to the achievement of this goal, to make the law applicable and to respect all those criteria that must be respected.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25557	Do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25558	Dear Chairman, Minister Selakovic, colleagues, first of all, let us say that we have here a set of judicial laws that, unfortunately, confirm the thesis of DS brought forth several times, and to you personally ministers, that the greatest riddle in Serbia today is to penetrate your activities and what you've been doing, here, almost half of your term. I have to say for the sake of truth and for the citizens to hear what you're offering through this package of laws, to speak in a dictionary and in a way that the citizens understand us. So, respected citizens and ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, these bill proposals create 66 basic courts and 23 judicial units, which is a total of 89. So far, there have been 34 basic courts and 96 judicial units, a total of 130. So you're from 130 to 89 and you've brought everything down to 23 judicial units. This specifically means that 50 municipalities will have neither the court nor the judicial unit. This is what I think is very important for citizens at this point to hear and what fellow MPs and how well they know as they speak to citizens in their municipalities, but, for reasons unknown to me, they are now very shy and silent about it. I think that's really bad. We have returned the judicial units to 44 municipalities in Serbia. Otherwise, these amendments to the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors increase the costs of citizens who will have to travel to some courts, but also the costs of judges and lawyers, which may result in more expensive and inefficient court proceedings, unlike what you said, and you said the opposite. I will remind you, Ministers, on many occasions in the election campaign, and when you came to power you spoke, I paraphrase - what is a city without a court, what is a city without a judicial unit. Do you know what it means, says Minister Selakovic, for one town in Serbia to have a lawyer, a judge, a normal development. You have disabled 50 such municipalities in Serbia that they have neither the court nor the judicial unit of these changes. The truth is, you have to tell the citizens, everything else is your political and legal acrobatics that you're doing here so that citizens can hear the number of increased basic courts. The fact is that 50 municipalities will not have a court or a judicial unit, costs will increase because people will have to travel. That's true and that's what you've managed to do so far. Otherwise, there is no fundamental change here, except for the network of courts. In many things you have managed to confirm many elements of the previous judicial reform that you have only had the words of criticism. The changes are of a technical nature, they reduce the places in which they are tried, i.e. There's a decrease in the number of places. Apart from this network, nothing concrete has been achieved or proposed, there is nothing about the returned judges and the impact of the returned judges on the functioning of Serbia's judiciary. It is confirmed that many elements of the DS concept were good in the previous period, because if you hadn't done it all the opposite. These legal changes won't get you anything fast. The work of the judiciary shall involve the jurisdiction of the police and the prosecution, etc. I think the numbers are really saying everything. The SNS district committees, ladies and gentlemen, have been holding meetings and deciding where courts, judicial units and prosecutors will be held. It is noticeable that in many ways citizens are punished in those municipalities where DS is in power. There's no analysis of the effect of what you've presented, no cost, except what you're telling us, and you said there isn't, but you're sure there's going to be a cost reduction. We disagree deeply. Otherwise, the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Regulating Courts has changed only the order of words in the sentence in Articles 1, 3 and 7 and added only one point, one point, but copyrights and findings in the court of senior court were expelled if the second court was not competent, you added to self-appealing courts at even three points, and another point remained exactly the same. So this is simply amazing in the 10th members only changes the name of the court - a violation of the appeal court. So now a little bit to get into this technical section so the citizens can hear your reach, I'd say, a month of hard work. Article 26, i.e. Article 65 of the basic text, is hereby expelled from the provision of which the court trainees' job championships are awarded by candidates who have completed a law school with a high rating. So that's what you're throwing out. The new position that is added, which you add, determines that the procedure for the reception of court trainees or judicial trainees is being brought closer to the act of the minister responsible for the judiciary, it is you, Mr Selakovic, which gives the minister the discretion to elect trainees who are close to the parties in power, not those who have graduated from the college with high grades, as the existing law prescribes. I don't think Milos Obrenovic did this either, what you're doing. Of course there is a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Judges. In three members, only the name of the court is changed - to a criminal appeal court. Article 6 or 19 of the basic text of the law concerns the transfer of judges. The exception that a judge may be transferred has become a rule, Mr. Minister, because almost every judge can be transferred through a changed over-the-counter jurisdiction. That's how much you respect the continuity of the court's place, the trials and the calls and how much you're disrupting it through these members that I've listed. Article 23, or Article 70, deletes words or more, allowing the High Council of the judiciary to designate only one competent person responsible for the President of the Court. Only one candidate, because only one candidate is given. So, no more candidates, only one. You didn't say anything about it in your debate. Article 24 and 72 of the Court of Justice can only be elected once every five years and can no longer run for office, which is certainly worse than the existing solution that the president foresees to be elected for four years, and can be re-elected to the post. You Ministers know very well how important the function of the President of the Court is. I don't know what you wanted to do with these, except in any way that, as people say, you're party-mushing the judiciary, so you can pick the ones that suit you. Article 25 changes words - one year, with words - six months, reducing the deadline for the election of the president of the court and the High Council of the judiciary undertakes to find the new president for twice as much time as the case has been so far. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the public prosecutor's law. In Article 18, it just changes the name of the prosecution. In Article 4 and 18 respectively, it is the direct influence of a public prosecutor who provides an oral binding manual which opens up the possibility of different influences on the prosecution without a written trace in the first three days when different influences and pressures on lower prosecutors are possible, respected citizens. Article 11 provides that the National Assembly for Deputy Prosecutors who are elected for the first time is to elect only one candidate, not one or more candidates, as has been the case so far. In this way, the state's senior prosecutor is merely literally electing the candidate, who doesn't always have to be the best, which we've seen, and as you know, various influences on the State's major prosecutors are possible to choose a prosecutor who can be pressured differently. The minister is given the discretionary right to elect the prosecutor's assistants by a regulation he has set himself, thus jeopardising the continual work of the prosecution without pressure from the executive authority in court. Of course, you did the same thing about the prosecutor's interns and about the court interns. All in all, much has been announced. A lot's been said. A little bit is real and done. So, you're eventually determining things about a network of courts in Serbia. Judges and jurors must not be party members, which is somewhat explained. But you can't explain to us what happened to over 600 judges that my colleague Cvian boasted had joined in the SNS, who are now back in business, but you didn't tell us if they had returned the SNS membership cards. It's a little illogical, you'll agree, that the judge can have a SNS membership card and the jury can't. Why are you discriminating in the judiciary, how do you think it's normal? The dispute of Serbia's courts, Mr. Minister, is endemic and unpaid lawyers. The presidents of the courts obviously do not do their job on adequate organisation of work and evaluation. You've brought the unworthy judges back to work. My question to you, given your interview with you, who will pay compensation for their poor work in the future? Since, I hope you're aware, no matter how much you want it, you won't be in power forever, will you personally be responsible for their unconscious work, how well you've noticed about some members of the VSS? You're introducing these motions to press the court as a functioning hand of the government and that extra, because now the judge can personally respond if he caused damage. You don't introduce criteria for such assessment, no criteria. Let me remind you why you made a mistake in a tabloid that is very close to your party, to whom you gave the interview. Article 9. The VSS law says no one can answer for an opinion or vote issued, and you ministers say you will press charges against VSS members for decisions made earlier. You don't even know the law you're referring to, which is really sad, Minister. Why are your hooligans and criminals on the streets of the Minister? I'm saying this hypothetically. Why did we have a young man in Nis today who's stabbed with knives and a burning stadium on a derby? How is it possible that you don't feel any responsibility to say a word as a minister of justice here about why we have so many liberating verdicts? How do you explain it, and will you ever explain to us the rope between amnesty with the help you've released over 2,500 criminals earlier on the street and the increased general insecurity of Serbian citizens lately and the leap of criminal acts in our republic? There's no answer to that, Mr. Minister, and I think you should do it. I think you've tried through certain provisions to put out public criticism of the work of the judiciary. That's what some of my colleagues were talking about. I will remind you, Minister, what you said about the Constitutional Court decisions, as well as Alexander Vukic, about people who have been decided that their detention is too long in relation to the Constitution, which you seem to have forgotten. I think that through this principle, the court is being held for control and discussion, not to hide certain decisions of our courts. Article 6 The law on the regulation of courts refers to a ban on influence on the court. The general ban on the use of the media with the aim of affecting the court raises concerns, as the Venice Commission has told you, because even with amendments it is too broad and could lead to a violation of the right to freedom of expression. Articles 8a,b,c refer to the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, although the possibility of addressing a higher court in order to end undue delay may be an effective instrument for protecting the right to a fair trial, the reasons for lengthy and painful proceedings, can have many reasons and can be different and should be analysed. You've ignored it all. How about the negative evaluations of the Venice Commission in particular in the article? 30 and 31 on the jurisdiction of the Supreme Cassation Court, because they empower the court to make principled decisions, which could lead to a conflict in the division of power i.e. functional division of power. So, all in all, Minister, you've reduced the number of courts, you've helped even the judiciary under control and under the influence of the executive authority, you've answered nothing about the endemic slowness and ineffectiveness of our courts, and now they have over 600 judges more. I ask you to explain - how can you have 600 judges more and that the judiciary is still slow and ineffective? How can you remove over 50 judicial units from Serbia's courts and talk here about how efficiency and the work of our judiciary will actually be increased? Will you ever explain to us, when you call for responsibility, those who were in the High Council of the Judiciary, whom you mean specifically, and do you think that this is also necessary to apply to your failures and to the failures of those who are unconscious and judges who do not deserve a judicial function back to work? That is what you should answer, not to me, Minister Selakovic, but to the citizens of Serbia. What's also going through, which is very interesting, is a little reminder. I've told you here in this same room several times that you're going to lift the court in Kosovo Mitrovica. That's when you said it wasn't true. I don't know what it's called then this solution that you're bringing us. That it would be regulated by a special law. Why don't you say nice Serbian what you mean? If not, where will this court be, how will it work and whose laws will it apply? Who's gonna pick the judges? Under whose coat of arms will they sit in court, Minister Selakovic? These are legitimate questions that we don't mind, but we're asking you to tell the truth, not hide behind the form, behind the norm and interpretation that is yours, which is arbitrary and which is absolutely part of the progressive judicial fairy tale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25559	Thank you. Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25560	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, thank you for this inspiring and encouraging speech. I'll do my best to answer it the same way, but I'll answer it realistically. It kind of hurts when someone who's your favorite praises someone who's not your favorite, so you're trying to stay blind. What has been done by the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration in the previous period, the European Commission's report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in the process of European integration. Is that the best thing? No, we can always do better and we try to do better and be as effective as possible. Is this the best report ever to come for the Serbian judiciary? Yes, it is. That's what those who disagree with us can say, or they'll shut up, and they'll repeat the lies every time, in order to maybe make them the truth. But okay, let's take it in a row. This proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors does not abolish any court. No court is lifted. You can look from your political angle and interpret different norms, but the norms are very clear. Is the termination of a certain number of judicial units foreseen? Yeah, it's predictable. What's so controversial about that? It's just that someone paid for both the building and the staff, they just missed the items, they just didn't have people to do anything about it. But that, my God, doesn't matter. It doesn't matter that the Belgrade judge has seven times more cases than his colleague in a smaller place. It doesn't matter. But from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which fills citizens with severe pain, from which all these costs are paid, and how financial acrobatics are needed to ensure these costs. So, yes, where non-functional judicial units are, as judicial units, they won't work anymore, but, as many cases and jobs as there will be, there will be so many trials. That's what I was talking about in judgment days. The fact that a qualification is given, as flat-rate as anything else, that there are no fundamental changes, well, that's an objection to those who have worked in working groups to prepare these changes and supplement laws. Let me remind you once again, these are distinguished judges, prominent prosecutors, lawyers, law professors, people from the profession who did so, who participated in the drafting of these laws. There's a sentence said and let me look back on it. He says nothing about returned judges and nothing about their influence. The other day I received a parallel nine-month report for 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, from 1 January to 1 October, compared this four year, as far as the case was solved in the Court of Appeal in Nis. I will read only the final number of cases, all summed up, and point out that approximately the beginning of the current year was appointed as the new performer of the President of the Court of Appeal. Meanwhile, the National Assembly chose him as the first President of the Court of Appeal in Nis, and the figures speak next. In 2010, the court resolved 6,724 cases. In 2011, the court resolved 7,069 cases. So not a full 300 more. In 2012, he solved 8,086 items for the first nine months. In 2013, this Judge Jocic, the President of the Court of Appeal, who was not elected, said that we were talking a little bit about the influences of the unselected judges, so in 2013, 11177 cases were resolved in the first nine months. In certain materials, the number of cases solved with six, as in one substance was solved in 2010, in 2013 582 cases. These are "bad", these are "unsuitable" judges. When it comes to this - nothing about the returned judges and their influence, are those the judges for whom the former President of the Republic contacted, then in opposition benches, the current President of the Republic, and asked him to give candidates for the Constitutional Court and judges of the courts of regular jurisdiction? Is that that famous way of transparent, democratic, impartial choice of judges? I haven't heard a single denial from the former president who put it on the bill. We'll give you a party quota, and you suggest yours. When you criticize, you have to take care of who you criticize and what you criticize. A few supreme lies have been made. Of course, someone who is a written and experienced lawyer can only do it on purpose and tendantly. Let's say -- the minister will choose candidates for court trainees. It's a couple of excellency nonsense, one of the biggest I've heard since I came to the National Assembly. (President: Please, Minister, we will not use such expressions. I apologize to both you and the MPs. Sometimes a man really comes to the temptation and in the heat of a debate to call things a real name, but all he has to do is languageally spread the norm and read what it says. It's said the minister is making a rule. Why? Now we're gonna say it. Let's say, about 15 months ago, a little less, when I took office, I started getting letters, in the form of complaints, more volunteers and interns from courts and prosecutors across Serbia. It's about young people who have completed a state college with a good average, say 8,50 or 8,70, who apply to a competition in a court that we mentioned today, and I mentioned it in the National Assembly, so I'm going to mention it again. It's about the General Court in Panchev. So, apply for a good student, I think that one candidate even had an average of over 9.50, and is not accepted as an associate, or assistant in that court, and is accepted by a candidate who had, say, an average of 10, but from a college that has no accreditation. So a college that doesn't have credentials ended up with a certain face and that face signed up for a contest... My mistake, I remembered, that face that ended has something to do with it. When someone doesn't have a state license to work, and you're taking him into the state service, he shouldn't, but that's what some previous president of the court did to anyone. By the way, that college face that wasn't accredited had an average of 6.71, but it seems to have been a manners and then you receive one man like that. From the basic court in Subotica, complaints came that someone in the express deadline had completed a college that had accreditation, but had an average score of 10 at one of the 55 law schools in Serbia, with all the outstretched departments counting, and someone who had graduated from a significantly harder university at the state university, he had no chance. The state gives up the better-quality one. Why? Because it's an average grade. Believe me, I had something that counts on a high average. The average rating certainly is important, but it must not be a crucial factor. Would you like to see someone in the state service? Then test his knowledge. The regulation prescribed by the minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary will be brought in an extremely transparent manner and will include those to whom it applies. You don't think that's good? Do you think it's a bad idea to test someone's knowledge before receiving it in the ministry? Do you think it's good, as many of us have found, to find an important state body that looks more like a social institution than a serious state body? I think it should be done. In the whole story, she only imploded one thing to me, and I was compared to Milos Obrenovic, and it impotes me. He is one of the fathers of modern Serbia, a man who hit the foundations of this country in which we live today with our wisdom and our political skills. Is he supposed to be bringing a minister's rule? You need to unify, you need to level the way in the courts and the public prosecutor's office, because today the interns and the assistants are getting whoever they want. We need to bring one unique way of getting them into the system, so you don't have that situation right now so that, as we have cases, repeaters are chosen. Some solutions have been criticised. He says – The High Council of the judiciary and the State's Chief Prosecutors undertake to make a proposal to only one candidate. We can talk about whether it's good or bad, but it was an unequivocal request from the representatives of the European Commission, the Commissioner for Justice and even the Venice Commission. To what end? In order to reduce the influence of legislative and executive authorities on the choice of judicial holders. We as lawyers can debate whether it's good or not, but I can see that it's been criticised and I don't understand the reason it's been criticised. The solution is criticised - why can the President of the Court be elected for only one term? Because in the past we have had in certain cities, some of them well-known to you, people who have been presidents for 20 years. Truth be told, I'm not talking about the time when our judiciary was more orderly, I'm talking about the period when it was and how it became burdensome with many problems. I don't know what else, apart from not knowing certain regulations, I don't mean anything bad, but I'm just correcting what's said, he says - we're introducing the judges' responsibility for the damage they're doing. Who cares, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, just take a look at the provisions of the law or a valid article 6. The law on judges and what is proposed. Therefore, in the applicable law, it is the basis for compensation for damages and, on the basis of a judicial verdict, the case where the judge caused damage with extreme negligence or intentional intent. The Venice Commission criticised it as the basis of extreme negligence and we're erasing it. Is the judge supposed to be responsible for the damage he's done when he does something on purpose? I do not believe that you will encounter a Serbian citizen who will tell you – you should not, especially those who and how often they meet with the court and who are and how often in court. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: How will we know? ) Based on the court's case. Only the court in court can determine that. Who else? The pressure-inducing story doesn't stand at all. Why did some courts do worse? Probably because of their lack of adequate work discipline. Adequate working discipline did not exist because courts had no presidents for four years, almost four years. The President of the Court is the one who needs to organise the work of the court. If you expect someone who is in a position to perform his duties for three-and-a-half years and who is waiting from day to day to day to be his competition, who has the ambition to be president of the court, to discipline all those who work in his court, to well organize the work of the court, and tomorrow from those same colleagues should get an opinion that will propose him to the President of the Court, then I don't think that's what's to be expected. In VF, no one wants to be resented, but everyone with everyone wants to be good and the effects of work is not so much of an interest to them. I gave you one example, an example of one court, the Court of Appeal in Serbia, a court in which in 2009 judges were elected to judges who had never worked in the judiciary and were elected for a court that took over part of the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of Serbia. It's a shame. So, the first choice in the Court of Appeal, in a court that took over the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. Today, one of the former ministers of justice was praised here, a man I personally think has started a lot of good in the judiciary. If those who inherited it continued to work in the same way, I don't believe that today we would be like the state and our judiciary in this state. The problem just came out of trouble. So no one abolishes 50 courts, because at this point in Serbia, under the current law, there are no 50 basic courts. They're gone. You're telling me it's a good thing there are no court units for one whole judge, but 0.89 judges? (Borislav Stefanovic, from town: That's what you were saying. That's not true. Take what you quote in general, and quote. It's absolutely true that I said that when you take a court from one place, it's as if you took his soul. I'm still standing on it. The fact is that a large number of cities in which the court should never have been abolished, as well as public prosecutors. The fact is that this bill corrects itself. Is that how we'd like it to be, all of us? Well, it's not. Personally, I would still like Belgrade to have more than two million residents on the list tomorrow. He doesn't have it on the list. It's real. And I would like to keep 117,000 people working in Belgrade in industrial production, as much as it did in the early '90s, not 17,000 as it was left after all. But it's not like that anymore. And I would like every settlement in Serbia to have a real court, which will have something to do and that Serbia can pay for it but that's not the case. And I wish there was enough work to be done in the Court of Justice. It is not employed because today you have a judicial unit close to Belgrade, where there is no job for two whole judges, but it employs five court security workers. Who are they providing? What are they providing? A judge who's busy two afternoons a week. Well, he better bring him with him once every two weeks, so he can work one whole day and that makes sense. A Majdanpek judge is elected to the Court of First Instance in Nis, from Majdanpek to Nis. It takes over 400 miles a day. He charges the cost of the trip, the cost of a separate life, and receives the salary as if he were a Supreme Court judge. It's all accounted for and taxes and contributions are paid on everything. Uncomparably richer countries than Serbia can't support that. Such, for example, was one-third in the Nish Court of Basic Court. One-third was chosen completely out of Nis, for Nis. I recommend that those who are still standing before the riddle take a nice report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia, the process of European integration and read what the Ministry of Justice and the state administration did. Maybe that's when they get the answer to the riddle. What was the problem, most of all, in our justice system, was partly about the content of the laws itself, it was about law enforcement. Once laws weren't applied, sometimes it was quite the opposite of what was the spirit of the law, sometimes people acted like they didn't exist at all. I remain in my position, and I will conclude that the inadmissible political influence that existed on the work of the judiciary until 2012, that this influence should be fully removed, that party leaders should no longer be called on to give their quotas in the election of judges from the basic, to the Supreme Cassation and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. We don't have the happiest constitutional solutions when it comes to our judiciary. I've talked about it a few times. As for the financial and the effect of the law, a code has been passed here that entered into force on October 1st. It's about the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the light of this law, I will paraphrasise, that the financial effects of the application of this law are not known, that they will be noticed in walking and that they will be shown in this way and that the National Assembly has adopted that code. For the sake of truth, the criminal procedure provided for in this Code is incomparably longer than the criminal proceedings that existed under the former Criminal Procedure Act. One of the reasons why the law has passed is the fact that it foresees much greater and wider use of institutes such as criminal prosecution opportunities and a plea agreement. Because in those countries where there is an adversial procedure, therefore, a party procedure, the plea agreement is concluded in 85%, 90%, 95%. Don't talk about financial effects, just look at it that this law provides for the elimination of all those costs that I just cited for all the courts, except for the courts of the Republic and the appeal level. Just analyze which savings will result from this restriction and you'll see what the result is. One more thing, there is absolutely no story that has been told that this introduces the movability of the judge's function. This is in our Constitution exclusively as an exception, and such an exception should be well and in detail defined in order not to be born into a rule. There is a tendency across Europe to abolish the irreparability of judicial functions, therefore, in Europe, in EU countries. Because what does that lead to? This leads to the fact that if someone logs in to be an intern, then an assistant, let's say in Belgrade's First Basic Court, no matter what he's not from Belgrade, which he came from somewhere on the side, so if he's from Belgrade, he considers himself only similar to that court and nothing more. So, this does not introduce the flexibility of the judicial function, as I said it was an exception, and I am convinced that there will be people who will express their voluntary intention to return to the place where they lived, in which there once was a basic court, in the meantime there will be a transparent judicial unit, the basic court has returned and the judge has the job to do. Lastly, once again, although I do know that most of those who speak do not want to look back at what is already said, but rather to draw some attention to the citizens, to the organisation of the days of judgment. Yeah, I think that's one of the good solutions. Especially in places where you have no basis for organising the work of the basic court, and a judge who volunteered to go once every two weeks, to go away, to hold the hearings once a week, in such a place it is necessary to rank more in court to get a certain advantage over that fellow who didn't want to go anywhere because he worked harder and harder. We would all like to have more children born in every municipality in Serbia than older people are dying, that economic activity is much bigger than it really is, that we do not have a budget deficit but a budget surplus, but you all know that real and present is not so. As far as the Kosovo Mitrovica court is concerned, I have something to say. As an experienced lawyer each of you who speaks here today and when interpreting the law should read it from the first to the last letter. From the title to the final point of the transitional and final provisions. So he can read what it's supposed to be when it comes to AP Kosovo and Metohija. But here are the merits of those who have proposed and voted for their majority the current law, it continues to exist in one part, from my point of view, a very important piece, which is exactly the part of the organisation of the judiciary in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. Maybe someone doesn't want to admit it, maybe you don't think it's a good thing that some previous majority passed such a law as it voted, but it continues to exist in that part. On the other hand, since you are witnessing that we are doing everything publicly look at the draft budget for the next financial year, you will see that all budgetary positions regarding the justice of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija remain unchanged. I think that's more than enough evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25561	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25562	Minister Selakovic, you have spoken for 27 minutes, and you have succeeded from a series of questions I have asked you, to answer three, and of those three, I think the most impressive thing you have said is that no court is being abolished, but individual judicial units are being abolished. Our people would say, especially those who live in these places, are not necks, but necks. But this is your attempt to spin, as popularly said, I will read to the citizens at least some of the judicial units that are being abolished – Razanj, Bac, Baka Palanka, Preshevo, Osječina, Srbobran, Plandište, Bolovac, Sečanj, Rekovac, Nova Crnja, Batocina, Racha, Varvarin, Blace, Krupanj, Ljig, Svrljig, Baki Petrovac, Beočin, Žablj, Temerin, Titel, Alibunar, Kovačica, Čupri, Babušnica, Bela Palanka, Žabari, Arilje, Kosjerić, Nova Varoš, Irig, Peći, Ada, Kanjiž, Apatin, Odzac, Lajkovac, Cajetina, Gućetić, Guć, Vladimirci and Koceljelj. It's not true, they're somewhere in power, but there's a lot of municipalities that haven't been through power yet. But the fact is, your real report to the minister is not the report you bring us here, but your real report is our shared desire to live in Serbia with safer, better and more justice. However, this real report of yours is devastating, catastrophic. You absolutely didn't answer any questions, about over 600 judges from the SNS, or your colleague Vladimir Cvian's criticism of the independent judiciary, i.e. The lack of independence of the judiciary, you absolutely didn't tell us anything about it. Now I appeal to you, when you answer me, try to do it in three minutes to be even in some way in time. Otherwise, don't call too much on the European Commission report, because during all the authorities, the report was, above all, very political, very important and motivated, and only then, related to the judiciary itself, including during our government. So, I think you try to be as brief as possible, that I can answer this about Milos Obrenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25563	Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25564	When we're in an equal position, I'll stick to that principle of equality. I'm one, and there's a few dozen of you. Unfortunately, every time I get here less and less. So, who suspended the courts, but the courts, both in fact and formal terms, you may well know, from 2008 to 2012, at the beginning of that period, the courts were abolished. What's more, especially given the new Code of Criminal Procedure, the public prosecutors have been suspended, and I haven't heard anything yet. One more thing, I didn't mention the cost. I just said, and I made a mistake, I said that 2012, that the delays in the Council of Justice's budget were a billion dinars, no, they were over a billion and nine hundred million dinars, almost two billion. I don't know what's expensive and what's cheap. You're saying, say, with all due respect to the citizens, say here, there is currently a New Nigger Court in the Main Court. The Nova Ninja Judiciary Unit has a case number for 0.32 judges. Calculate how many people follow the work of that judicial unit and you will get the result that it is incomparably cheaper for the state to send once every three weeks to the judge who will hold the hearings and judge. And, you know, every time I remember that aphorism that he says, before the war we had nothing, then the Germans came and destroyed everything. So did this story I just heard. You'll allow that if I answer all the questions that my exposure would be one or four to five times more. This is how I answered those questions that deserve to be answered. As long as I'm in a position to appreciate it, that's how I'll respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25565	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25566	I think, Minister, it's very incorrect what you said through a cynical observation, that we're getting smaller and smaller. It's not right. You're still the guest of the minister here. As long as you're here, we'll be looking for you, you'll be sure of that. Otherwise, it's interesting that you keep avoiding, that you in letters and numbers, now have 66 basic courts and 23 judicial units, which is a total of 89, in our time there were 34 basic courts, so there were double fewer, but there were 96 judicial units, which was 130 larger, ministers than 89. I understand that you can show everything here in a way that you're weak in the truth. You may not even see her on the street. But you can't talk to that much. By the way, the minister's laying down a regulation on the admission of an intern. So far, it's unrecorded in political legal practice to say that you have nothing to do with it. Well done. You said that we are criminals of this people, because we have reduced the number of basic courts in Serbia. You personally said that Serbs suffer from "yellow" in power, as they reduce the number of judicial units and courts. And what are you doing now? Fifty municipalities remain without a judicial unit. So what do we call you now, Mr. Minister? We won't be as safe as you are. Be sure of that. Otherwise, I think you ministers in this situation, when we gave you clear figures, when we asked you why you were doing it, when we gave you the members, you didn't answer very specific questions. You said you liked Milos Obrenović very much. I know that Mr. Milos is close to your spirit and sensitivity, but to inform you that he lived almost 200 years ago, and that you ministers are now in the 21st century, although your judiciary, unfortunately, is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25567	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25568	We can talk about history if you really want to. During the rule of coded Milos in Serbian, "the stake of a villa" has been translated. The Austrian civil code is translated into Serbian. During his government, the preparation of the third in the civil code world, which was later passed, began the truth at the time of Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic. You're wrong, you're not listening to me. Listen a little more carefully. In his day, the preparation, which was later brought in, began during the reign of Prince Alexander. But in his day, a criminal code was passed. So, I am proud that the illiterate code of Milos has managed to do and has brought Serbia closer to Europe much more than many writers and established the state in a way thanks to which it existed and survived in the centuries and decades to come. That's why I'm saying it's imploding to me that comparison. Did he have any flaws? He had like any other ruler, whether he was a statesman, and how he was a statesman. As far as I'm concerned, I'm saying downsizing again, I don't have any problem saying that. Yes, this law returns a court that will exist as a primary court in 66 cities in Serbia, i.e. 66 courts. With judicial units, it's 89, judicial units that will be tried and tried and found guilty. With the obligation of the days to come, which so far was not an obligation and with significantly lower operating costs than it was in the previous period. If you think it's normal, let's just say, for the cost of building a judicial unit that has a job for two judges, to buy and spend more than 80 tonnes of coal a year, which is done in Serbia, then it can be an indicator of the austerity and "domestic management" of the one who claims to be better. I argue that it is not, and whether Serbia needs a reduction, is because Serbia unfortunately cannot pay many things anymore, and as I said, unfortunately in Serbia there is an increase in the number of items most in desert matter, the most written agreements on life support are written and made up of legacy. That's what our sad and cruel daily life is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25569	Thank you. Borislav Stefanovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25570	I hope I don't hear from you again. Thank you for being short ministers, in any case, I think it's very useful, you could have added the costs of 48 officers admitted to the Assembly with 50 employees past the competitions also admitted to the MUP, with over 100 advances admitted to the SDPR, without speaking to local public enterprises who were all accepted, someone from the student cooperative directly in the advisory post. When we add that up, maybe we could have saved some of those judicial units in terms of costs, because I remind you, it's you who said it was a crime against the Serb people, to abolish his court or judicial unit, that's what you're telling me personally, and that's right here in my face in the assembly. I'm just asking, then be consistent to the end, and don't keep talking – the previous government. The total number is in favour of the previous government. (Marko Atlagic, from the place: It is not true. ) Right, except for this gentleman who shows up, who doesn't understand that 130 is larger than 89, but he's been studying some weird forest schools so he doesn't understand. What's the fact that this is about Milos, he did a lot and he was a modernizer of Serbia, but it's also true, Mr. Minister, that if you were a different person of opinion, you ended up in a septic pit, do you know that? Do you know what Milos did to the advances, not to this classic one, there wasn't a party under that name yet, but since you're advanced, do you know what he was doing to them? You're only five years old, don't call everyone, refer to what you stated as the beginning of lawmaking. So, what you're trying to do, I'm saddened by it, I'm ending it, which we don't see progress in what you suggested, we don't see what's really better, we don't see what you've brought the judiciary to do more effectively, we don't see what you've done to make these judges do that they don't work, we don't see how you're going to control the work of the President of the Court, we don't see what's better in this than what was, it's sad and it's a tragedy of this state, ministers, and criminals are savage in the streets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25571	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25572	I've been trying really hard to understand what you've been talking about with some historical factography, but is it worth it, is it not worth it, I just don't think we should look back anymore. Yes, and that I think he was a modernizer of Serbia, and that I think Serbia did not repay him in the way it should have been done, as many who have improved Serbia, who have been editing and developing Serbia. I remain responsible for what was done almost four years ago and how the basis for creating a more efficient and better judiciary was destroyed. The very fact that the number of cases has increased says enough in favour of this, but it was necessary to establish some principles that were not political, but purely professional principles and to stick to these principles, whether they were established in a court, in a legislative or executive authority. My opinion is that these principles have begun to be established. If you think that the report of the European Commission is something that is not relevant when it does not respond to you and when it says the opposite of what you would like it to be, then it is your personal and biased opinion, but I really have no intention of convincing you otherwise, everyone has a political view, I respect it, I respect it, I remain standing in the need of a more efficient, fairer, and a cheaper system and I am confident and I claim that this leads to the establishment of just such a system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25573	Thank you. Zoran Babic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25574	I agree with you, Mr. Minister, that I do not see the relationship between SDPR and the network of courts, but the SNS is ready to talk about the results of the SDPR and the increased exports and the results of the work that the SDPR has done over the last year and a half. We are ready, although I do not see a link between the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Network of Courts, but we can talk about this cost reduction, and I will remind you that the level of earnings, i.e. compensation to members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of the Prosecutors' Office of the ranks of professors and lawyers, was determined by the Administrative Board. I would remind you that in the last term, the Administrative Board has increased the level of compensation from a parliamentary allowance, i.e. from about 30,000 to six average salaries in the Republic of Serbia. Is this the relationship of economics in the judiciary in any segment of our society? Is that the relationship when four people for that period, you honor them with 10 million dinars? It's the relationship of the former regime, it's the relationship of DS and let's once remove that mirage from that ordinary addition of basic and basic courts and judicial units. Let's say what cases are being tried in the primary courts and which in the judicial units. The basic courts find guilty and a good part of the case. A small part of the case is tried in the judicial units, and when you're instructed by the places that have lost the judicial units, let's see where Majdanpek's guilt has been tried so far, where did the citizens of Majdanpek have to go to trial? Where did they go to the Great City, Petrovac, Mlava, where they went to Belgrade, the Third Primary Court, Lazarec, Obrenovac? Where did the people of the Book go?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25575	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25576	I thank you, so some things can't be viewed simply by simple addition.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25577	Replica Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25578	I don't really know what we've earned from this storm, though very vague content, but I have to tell you, I know that your addition is going great, so gather not the prime numbers, as you said, but gather your total, overall unfulfilled promises, because the result is zero, so put that zero together nicely with a false promise to bring the courts back to all these cities, so gather it with the return of 600 foreign courts, so collect it with the endemic ineffectiveness of our judiciary, and collect it with what you're doing in Serbia, plus the batinans, plus the fans, plus the burned northern Kosovo and the broken boxes, and you'll get the SNS. To help you in your account, I think it's genius what you said, just because you didn't answer why we shouldn't bring together nice people that you've received outside of the competition of your party soldiers from the Assembly, SDPR, MIP, local self-government, public enterprises, so those people are nice for those costs that we managed to save some of the judicial units, as I call on the minister: "This judicial unit is the life of that place. The place is worth nothing because it loses its intellectual elite, the place is dead without a judge and a lawyer," said Minister Selakovic. Now you 50 of those places are getting off the map, and nothing, you say, will be spent. At the time of this Kodzha Milos Obrenovic were judges there, but they were judged by the master's words, mostly, as you are used to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25579	Thank you. The word has Minister Selakovic and we end up with replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25580	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People’s Parliament, says a wise saying: “The Devil is in detail. ” Don't quote someone if you're not ready to make a full quote from the beginning to the end. So, taking a court from one place means taking his soul, not a judicial unit. If it's the same for someone and the court, then there's obviously a problem in not knowing the terminology, not knowing the law. But ignorance of the law does harm, even so in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25581	Please, let's finish the replicas. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25582	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You can fool Serbian citizens once, so you can go out and apologize and say, I was wrong, I did it because I didn't know, I may have been in that moment and malice, but when you go out the second time and you do that again, no one trusts you anymore. All those zeroes, which the colleague was talking about, are much more than the minuses that we found in the judiciary, and in finance, and in the economy and in every segment of our society, but I believe these zero interpretations are similar to what we experienced here in the National Assembly, when he said that no indictment for the past year has been filed and has been confirmed, and then when we documented by the special court's report, when it was confirmed that 180 indictments were raised and confirmed the least we could expect, not us, the citizens of Serbia to whom it was sent an apology, but we didn't experience that apology. The same apology will likely be left behind for these things that were said just before by an esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25583	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25584	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, Mr. Minister, representatives of the Justice Ministry, I must say that I am very surprised by the one silence that is ruling in this House yesterday, as if nothing was happening in Kosovo yesterday, as if Kosovo was not in a semi-war situation, as if Aleksandar Vukic yesterday did not intend to call the police to intervene against his own people, as if one MP Marko Jaksic had not experienced satanisation through means of public information and who, without a court ruling, was sentenced to a minority for terrorism. To make the coincidence bigger, we're talking about justice today. I must also say that I expected, Mr Minister, that, after the reform of the judiciary failed, every legislative proposal that comes from your ministry to be legally perfect, because Serbia no longer has the opportunity to suffer mistakes. I expected the proposals, which we are going to discuss today, to be legally in line with the Constitution, to be clear, to be unequivocal and, in the end, to try at least to solve a number of accumulated problems created by the previous reform of the judiciary. Fifteen months have passed since the formation of government. From that moment until today, no systemic error in judicial reform has been corrected. I have no intention of criticising you because I fully understand that it took time for you to get to know one of your new authorities in detail, but I cannot understand that neither this long break nor this long preparation of legislative proposals has led to today in the Assembly discussing good, quality laws and laws that have good, if not enough reform potential. Of course it continues with changes that do not contribute to the rule of law in Serbia. Of course, we will attack the worst solution provided for in the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, and certainly the proposal to separate the judicial system in Kosovo and Metohija from the single judicial system will come under our strongest criticism because it is thus directly undermining the legal order of the Republic of Serbia and this is, in any case, the biggest complaint we have on the bill, but it is not the only one. It is not clear to us today what criteria the government has defined today in the Assembly that we are discussing this law, or this network of courts and prosecutors, which, I must admit, is somewhat better than what we have today, but none is good unless it is followed by clear criteria, all those criteria that had to be respected when proposing such a bill. Among all these criteria I somehow see the primate of political criteria and that's something that's bad. If they even took into account criteria that had to be taken into account, which is the number of judges, the number of cases, the number of cases left behind, the size of the municipality, the number of inhabitants, the geographical structure of the population, the field configuration, the accommodation capacity and all the other criteria that they had to be. If they are already taken, they are not consistently implemented. Why? If they were, we wouldn't have had a situation today if we had a basic court in Surdulica, and let's say the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Vladica Han, or we wouldn't be in a position to have today, in fact we don't have seven basic public prosecutors in the border areas, and we know how much drug trafficking, people and weapons and everything is happening in these areas. The Law on Judges jeopardises one of the fundamental principles of judicial independence, which is immigration. In the re-election of judges, the principle of continuity of judicial office has been compromised. We now have a situation that the unmoved judges are at risk and today the judges will be able to be transferred from not only one court to another, but from a higher court, and we will not in fact know, or they will not know, more importantly, on which criteria, on which criteria, on which criteria, and what procedure preceded such a single solution and such a decision. The third major complaint that we have on the set of these judicial laws that we are discussing today is certainly one of the wrong concepts that fundamental laws in the field of justice, here I primarily think of the Law on Judges and the Law on Prosecutors, harmonize with the Law on the Judicial Academy. I remind you, it is a law whose provision is in the process of assessing constitutionality. It's simply not a logical order of moves that you've come to this assembly with. Of course, these are the principled, most huge regrets we have on the bill, and that is why in the shortest time I will try to look at each of these laws individually. When it comes to the Law of Court Order, it is true, he has some good qualities. For example, one of these good qualities is that a session of the department can be called on the proposal of one third of the judges of that department. The other good thing is that it's being introduced so-called. A little appeal, where appeal courts will be significantly relieved in terms of solving criminal cases, and that's good things. Also, I can't help but express my concern about those proposals you've provided for in this law, which may not achieve the goal they're proposing. Here I am primarily talking about those parallel procedures that will be conducted on the basis of a request for protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period and for anyone who does not know maybe the judiciary inside, this seems like a very logical provision, but for anyone who knows how the judiciary works today, and in particular how it works after judicial reform, he can't help but express concern about such solutions. Of course, I know your intentions were good. You planned to encourage solving the case within a reasonable period of time, and you wanted to relieve the Constitutional Court of a huge number of cases with which it was loaded when it came to this matter, but I am afraid and expressing some distance from what you wanted to achieve because I believe that this solution will not help solve things. Why? I think it's necessary to go from the very analysis of things, and that analysis says, just like this, what it is that leads to a delay in the trial, i.e. a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. It is precisely a huge overload and disproportionate burden of Serbia's courts today. If we have so much overloading of judges in certain courts, then it causes a drop in quality. Today our judges, Mrs Blagojevic knows very well, because she comes from the court, overloaded, especially speaking in the Belgrade judiciary. They are unable to overcome the inflow, not to be expected to solve old objects within a reasonable time. When faced with this, then we need to know that they are faced with demands that they solve a huge number of cases more effectively, but I'm afraid that efficiency in this respect is understood in a completely wrong way. It is not an effective court procedure to solve as many cases as possible within the shortest time limit. On the contrary, effective action is to resolve and make quality decisions within a reasonable period preceding a fair debate and a fair solution to matters. That's the essence of the story. It is not essential that you resolve the quickest way, from the hills of the valley, and later that such a solution is made to appeal and that this procedure goes on indefinitely. It's no way to solve things like this. I think that this solution, which you've predicted, is only clear of the symptoms, but not the causes of the problem itself. This solution is not good because, I'm afraid, the existing parties will file such claims for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time in unwarranted cases. We know very well what the judges are facing today. If the judge accidentally looks at you wrongly, the party will have the basis to address the court on the basis of what you predicted in the law, because it will consider its basic, essential right to be compromised. That's why I don't think this is a good solution. On the other hand, we can easily fall into the trap of this solution itself. How? By, say, directly superior courts, who are in charge of solving such cases, may neglect the resolution of their regular cases and be burdened further to end it within a certain period, and they will not be able to end it because they are obliged to resolve the requirements based on infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. So they'll be overloaded. I am personally concerned that this solution will not be a good one. I think you're a little too hasty and you didn't see this proposal coming with enough caution. It is precisely because I would not like to, and this has often happened in this House, not only while you are the minister, but much more in the previous term, to say one solution that we adopt today in six months' time, that comes back to the Assembly, that is to say, to the Parliament for the completion or erasure. I don't want to be able to meet again in a year's time to discuss this solution, but this time we're looking for its erasure because the high courts are unable to deal with a series of cases that were created in the meantime. I have heard somewhere that this provision, which is now being introduced into the Law on Court Order, is being brought in because the Strasbourg court, in most cases, makes decisions precisely because of the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. The truth is, the Strasbourg court only made 26% of the decisions that were motivated by this reason in 26% of the cases. 65% of the court's decisions in Strasbourg were made for violation of justice and damage to the quality of justice, not for violation and violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Also, when it comes to this law, I don't think it came from a good concept when it comes to the division of jurisdiction between the Ministry of Justice and between the High Council of the Judiciary. If all of us here are in favour of strengthening judicial independence together, then it was necessary to provide for the High Council of the Judiciary to be responsible for establishing the criteria and criteria for determining the number of judicial staff, if the law has already given him the right to decide on the number of judges. I think the High Council of the judiciary had to be in charge of the management of judicial affairs, as well as of the adoption and supervision of the Rules of Procedure. These are the shortest regrets when it comes to the Law on Court Orders. When it comes to the Law on Judges, I have already said at the very beginning that the provisions that allow the transfer of judges are very problematic with, of course, the constitutional aspect and that it violates one of the basic assumptions of the independence of the judiciary, which is precisely the immutability of the judges. With the Justice Act, I think it was an ideal place to add a provision when it comes to the evaluation of judges. You know that the High Council of the Judiciary so far has not been able to establish criteria and criteria for the evaluation of judges and since we have had huge problems in judicial reform because of the absence of these criteria, I think it was a good solution to provide for these criteria and criteria just legally. On the other hand, what I have mentioned in the opening statement, I think that the problematic provisions that this Law on Judges comply with the Law on the Judicial Academy for their submission, if I am not mistaken, are five initiatives for the assessment of the constitutionality of the law, and as regards Article 40. If nothing, then at least the outcome of the constitutional procedure should have waited, and then proposed a solution like this. When it comes to the Law of Public Prosecutors, I must say he is much better than the Law of Judges. Why? Because it provides in a different way for him to propose and select candidates for a public prosecutor's office. I think it's better planned, as I think it's very good that you predicted that prosecutor's assistants and prosecutors have the right to association with professional associations. Unfortunately, they don't have any judge's assistants or judge's interns. We have submitted an amendment in this regard, and I think it would be a good idea to bring these two laws into line, if nothing, at least in that part. I am very interested in what these reasons have contributed to, let's say, predicting that the State's Major Prosecutors are right, making a ranking list based on the criteria and criteria set out in advance for proposing public prosecutor's office, and that this provision is not present at the Law on Judges. Also, I'd like you to explain to me why you didn't predict that the judge's assistants have the right to association with professional associations, as the prosecutor's assistants and the prosecutor's interns do. I think that because of the ease of access to justice and the reason for the economics of the procedure, it was important for the prosecution network to monitor the network of courts. It is very symptomatic why on the basis of this network of prosecutors, which you have predicted for us, there are no prosecutions in seven border areas, and these are cities such as Bujanovac, Dimitrovgrad, Književac, Majdanpek, Priboj, Sjenica and Šid. All these cities are in border areas and I think just because of what's going on in the border areas, these cities had to have basic public prosecutors. At the very end, it is certainly inadmissible that what you have provided for the Law on Courts and Public Prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. It's not unacceptable just because it's against the constitution, it's inadmissible because you were able to do it, it wasn't able to do it before you, and what you're capable of doing, it couldn't have been done by any country that calls itself a state. You abolish the institutions of your own state, you renounce your own people, you see yesterday in Kosovo, you force that people to fight for justice in courts or in the courts of Hashim Thaci, and believe me, Mr. Minister, the history of such things does not forget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25585	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25586	What history forgets and doesn't forget will one day be witnessed by those who failed to respond in both 2004 and 2008 and those who sat on their hands. But let's leave it to history, she'll judge it. I believe the same you will be able to stand, as I am, in front of history and answer to it. I'm going to react to some things that I don't believe you deliberately made, even though they're absolute lies. It has been said that this set of laws calls into question the principle of the non-moving of judges. This principle was established by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the principle is defined as an exception. The law has to work out that exception. The law did it. What is absolutely false and what is said – it is possible to move from the higher court to the lower court. That's absolutely incorrect. Anyone who wants to be honest can look at the interventions provided for in the Law on Judges, in force in Article 19, where the proposal for the Fourth Law states very clearly: “In the case referred to in Article 2, the judge may be transferred only to the court of the same degree. ” Thus, only in the court of the same degree, “which assumes the jurisdiction of the court which has been abolished or which has changed most of the jurisdiction. “ What does that mean? That's exactly what this means. In Raska, there is now a judicial unit in which six judges work. These judges are being held as judges of the General Court in the King. These judges, I think, are six of them almost all, but don't hold me by my word, because I was able to visit that judicial unit and tell me that I was the first minister after 2001 to come to visit it, earlier was the court, which is now being held as judges of the primary court in the King being the judge of the General Court in Rasko. I don't know if there's anything more natural than that? Is that the court of the same degree? Yes, it is. Both are basic courts. Is this the area of the same basic court right now? Whoever listened carefully to my opening statement could hear very clearly when I said that it couldn't happen that Judge from Subotica was transferred to the primary court in Pogorevec. Or the judge of the Vranj basic court should be transferred to the Court of First Instance in Uzic. It's possible you were talking about something else, but as a kind of lawyer, you're making a difference between a transfer and a reference. The judge may be referred, but with his own consent, to a court of a different degree than the court in which the judge was elected. But this is the kind of cardinal mistake that we make and accuse us of wanting to make such a violation of the principle of unmovable Judges - absolutely not true. Therefore, according to this proposal, the judge may be relocated without his consent, and if the court is suspended, only to the court of the same degree that assumes the jurisdiction of the court which has been suspended or which has changed the majority of the jurisdiction. The very fact that, under the law, the High Council of the Judiciary is obliged to carry out, every five years or when it deems necessary, an assessment of the necessary number of judges for a particular court, so if it turns out that there are more judges in one court than it needs for work, it will also lead to a change in the jurisdiction of that court. So, under some regular circumstances. On the other hand, I must also indicate something which is currently the Commission's activity to implement a national strategy for judicial reform. It is this commission, in co-operation with the High Judicial Council and the State Major Prosecutors, that has formed one working group, one working commission, which should form, or should define the criteria for the transfer of or allocation of judges. To our great satisfaction, after a long time, the Commission also participates in the work of professional associations of judges and prosecutors and representatives of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. You are indeed right – it is one of the most sensitive but also the most important things to be done. I am convinced that by the activity of the most valuable experts, both from the Supreme Cassation Court and from the prosecution, from professional associations, this job will be done in a satisfactory manner. You will be as soon as possible, if you follow up on the web sites, and I am convinced that the means of public information will also be reported in detail and regularly, to be familiar with the criteria that they define. One of the basic criteria is volunteering. But that's what we have to do. What is very important – you can define exactly how many places, how many points in Serbia will need to be done. In the case of some courts, that won't be necessary at all. Of course, the most sensitive and one of the most important issues is the issue of Belgrade. How do you do that in Belgrade? I'll tell you right away. Absolutely, but I absolutely don't have a shred, one single interest, to decide whether or not to judge who's going to be in Belgrade from the judges. I don't care. I'm ready to be excused from those council meetings tomorrow. What is my interest as a representative of the executive authority that citizens choose in the elections, unlike a court that is not elected in the elections, and perhaps it would be good to choose it because some responsibility would be much more visible, as in some countries with direct democracy established? So my interest is that the system works in a satisfactory way. I'll respond to a few more things. Infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, you are right, the maximum number of performances before the European Court of Human Rights does not concern violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, but the most significant number of constitutional complaints before our Constitutional Court is precisely something relating to violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time. If they do not find adequate protection for citizens after they have addressed the European Court of Human Rights. What is one of the intentions of introducing a court order to a directly superior court where the party considers that there has been a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time? I'm sorry you didn't look in that direction. The intention is to return to our courts something that once existed at a time when our courts and our judiciary were much better. There was a control system. Controls of a direct court order over a lower court. Then it couldn't have happened to archive a living object, and that kind of thing was done. At that time, the judges were lower - degree judges and how they were taking care of how they would act. You mentioned judges and courts in Belgrade as the most burdensome. The truth is, the most burdened, but by the results of the work, when you tap into the report and look at it -- and the most efficient. The judges in Belgrade are doing the most and almost completely mastering their inflow. You have, of course, deviations, more or less, it exists everywhere, but globally, they are one of the most effective courts. I wouldn't compare it to, say, some courts that are really very well-organized, up-to-date, well-functioning like that. The basic court in Požega. So what's very important is to reintroduce that control system. You may request that you request information from the Supreme Cassation Court or the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office -- as many as in the previous period of one year, two years, three years have gone into some kind of control of the work of the courts or the prosecution of the lower level. What I can tell you in advance, I didn't ask you, I asked for financial control of such information, and I got it, and it's very devastating, very bad, and it testifies to the chronic incapacitation of our judicial authorities to take care of such things. But what I can already do as my assessment based on my knowledge of the situation so far is that the state of control is extremely difficult. Why is it not prescribed that judicial assistants have the right to association with professional associations? My personal opinion is that such provisions do not belong in this law, but in any case they are not forbidden to join in such associations. Judges and prosecutorial assistants are civil servants. For them, the basic law is the Law on civil servants. State officials have the right to team up, as members of each other's professions do. When it comes to criteria and criteria for assessing the work of judges and prosecutors, and I would say, I am absolutely in agreement with what you have stated, which is that it is necessary to bring such criteria. As far as I know, the work version of that rule is over. A series of public hearings has been held in court when it comes to the judge's regulation. A series of public debates on Serbia's courts has been held, experts from the Venice Commission have been given, some minor objections to such a rule have been defined. I've heard from certain representatives of some professional associations almost identical words that you've put out here -- no norm and no efficiency at all at the expense of justice. I couldn't agree more. There's only one thing I'm going to mention, 10, 15 years ago, in an identical rule they were set up, if you want 20 years ago, for 30% of the higher norm and the judiciary worked much better. The standards that are now valued based on the lowest performance score of the worst in the efficiency of Serbia's court and the best. Those standards that are proposed are closer to the worse one than the best one, and they don't answer to anyone again. Allow me one thing to note, the judge of the basic court in the Republic of Serbia has a ministerial salary. The judge of the basic court has three times the salary of an employee who works in the economy and who creates a new value. I have to name it because his work fills that budget. I'm still for the judge to have such a salary, and I don't slow that height down at all. The level of salary of judges and prosecutors in Serbia has been assessed in line with Serbia's citizens' standard of living as one of the realistically speaking, the first three, four, high in Europe. But you'll allow one thing, you can't appreciate objects every single thing. There are harder objects, more complex, more complicated. There are those who are easier. When we talked about judges in Belgrade and looking at the inflows and talking about a great backlog, a large number of old cases, there is a part of what awaits us right after the election of the President of the Courts, and these are programs for solving old cases, where the maximum procedural discipline must be introduced and where I am convinced that, like our colleagues in Republika Srpska, we will be in some foreseeable period, in the future we can say that we have solved the old cases. In Republika Srpska, they did it. They remain for the next year to solve the backlog of these cases in basic courts and will only devote themselves to the upcoming inflow. It's not much of a math. It is only necessary to establish good procedural discipline. With what awaits us confident now some of these things by the end of the year will be. Amendments and additions to the Law on the Procedural Procedure have just been completed, and amendments and additions to the Act on Non-Parking Procedure have been completed. It is defined i.e. the working version of the amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security shall be established. Through certain changes and additions to procedural provisions, we will contribute to making the judiciary fairer and more efficient. Not one more thing than the other, but on the other hand, I'm going to add that we are finishing a public debate with the draft law on dispute settlement. I'm going to add that, as we can't see efficiency apart from justice, from the quality of justice, so we can't look separately at independence without responsibility. They're all two sides of the same medal. The judge if he's independent and he's not responsible, then it's not his independence. It's called something different. The same is true of what we just said – if the court is effective and is not just then it is not efficiency and tones the court. I thank you and I'm sorry if I took too much time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25587	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25588	Mr. Minister, I am very pleased that you are in principle agreeing with most of the criticisms that I have brought to this set of judicial laws, and I am very glad that this level of quality in the debate is present and where happiness lies when such a level of debate exists when discussing other laws. All I have to do is point out to you the provision of a constitution that regulates the immutability of judges. In the case of the suspension of a court or of a large part of the jurisdiction of the court for which the judge has been elected, it shall be indicated that, without his consent, he may be permanently transferred or referred to another court in accordance with the law. So it's said to be the case of the court being abolished or the principal part of jurisdiction. It is not said – in the event of a court being suspended or a change in the principal part of the jurisdiction of the judges. It's a very important and clear difference. When we talked about the inability of the judge, it was necessary to establish the criteria. That's what we agree on. But I would hate for the absence of these criteria to be the reason for the transfer of a judge from one court to another because perhaps he in a given situation in a given decision did not respond politically to the request put before him. On the other hand, you talked about the Constitutional Court, about how much he is burdened and how unable he is to resolve so many constitutional complaints. If that is the case and if he is really burdened by a huge number of constitutional complaints and non-resolvements of these cases, then what prevents him from launching a debate on the proposal for the constitutionality of the Vojvodina Statute that we submitted almost four years ago? We will literally celebrate the fourth birthday since the proposal was submitted before the Constitutional Court. (President: Time.) Then what does the Constitutional Court do? I'm sorry I don't have more time, and I've got a lot more to say to you regardless of the intro agreement with most of my stuff.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25589	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25590	Thank you. I am once satisfied with the level of debate that is being held in the Assembly, but don't fully quote what the constitutional norm reads. She says - in the event of the suspension or the large part of the jurisdiction of the court elected by the judge, it may, without its consent, be permanently transferred or referred to another court in accordance with the law. And what are we discussing today, up to the law? That's the essence of the whole story. What political criteria? I absolutely didn't understand what it meant to mention a political criterion. I just said very clearly and unequivocally -- I have absolutely no interest in which one of the judges will be. I even have an opinion that the judges themselves should see it. The judges themselves need to agree on that. Once four years together, everyone sits at one table, and they finally start talking to each other, to overcome the divisions that were made artificially between them. Once the judges, early in the morning with coffee, before their hearings began, discussed all the current problems that exist in certain cases in the court, helped each other learn younger than the elderly. Unfortunately, the biggest problems that have been introduced into our judiciary are these problems of lack of communication among people. Thus, the law makes it very clear that it will be implemented and introduces the obligation to adopt criteria on the basis of which the transfer will be made. I think that today was the session of that commission that has been tasked with defining the criteria and how much I was informed, is that some principled agreement has been reached between people who didn't want to sit down until yesterday to talk to each other. Now they realize that they need to sit down and solve the problem in a good and satisfying way. I don't see what the problem would be. It's about a commission formed by the Justice Reform Commission. You can say - who formed it? It was formed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. But whose proposal? You know what, now we're getting into trouble with something that no one's ever explained to me. Every judge in Serbia, when making a verdict, does not make it on behalf of society, on behalf of the High Council, but brings it on behalf of the people. If you are, and are, representatives of the people that the people in the election choose, then this body needs, as well as the other bodies that this body chooses, this body chooses, to have a certain jurisdiction. If we're going to create a judiciary that chooses itself and answers itself, where does it work? Those of you who have truly devoted their professional century to the profession know that this is what Djordje Tasic wrote about, the Belgrade Faculty of Law Dean, who was shot by the Nazis in Banjaca, that this is impossible and that it was doomed. By formally forming this commission by the government, who is to form it? It formed on the basis of what the National Assembly adopted, and the National Assembly adopted a strategy. Is there a larger authority in the state of Serbia than the National Assembly? My opinion is that there is no or that it should be. The strategy adopted by this very congregation is one of the few strategies adopted in the congregation. What's so controversial about that? I absolutely don't see what's controversial. The error in the existing Constitution, even though I am looking at it as a lawyer, is that the Assembly is being constrained by powers, when it comes to the choice of holders of judicial functions, because the 2010 directive clearly states – between the authorities directly elected by judges and judges themselves, there should be an expert body that would propose, but would not oblige those who make the final decisions. I just cited an example of Austria and the Czech Republic and Germany and Finland, if you will, where the judge chooses the president of the state or the minister of justice. But then when a citizen complains about that same minister, he also has a reason to answer, in these systems. I'm sorry for too much of your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25591	The word is Milica Radovic, so let's finish the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25592	If you say so, I'll finish. If I understand you correctly, Mr. Minister, you are in favour of changing the Constitution in this regard that the National Assembly has much greater powers in selecting the holders of judicial functions. Is that something Franco Frattini agrees with? I would like to know how the European Commission will view such an attitude. It seems to me, and I just have to have one dose of personal limitations, if I had understood what you said, but it seems to me that a few months ago you were just seeking to change the Constitution to increase jurisdiction, or strengthen the independence of the judiciary. I'm absolutely in favour of increasing and strengthening the independence of the judiciary, but it's completely in conflict with what you just said. Also, you said, and I have to point out that because I had no right to point out that in my previous report, you mentioned court wages and you used one dose, I would say, demagogy, without intent to offend you. You said: How is it possible for a judge's salary to be three times higher than the salary of a worker in the economy? Let's not do that, those are very dangerous statements. The judiciary is a matter of all matters in this country. When it becomes clear to us, we may become much better in the state, because no foreign investor will come, no business will be launched, there will be no fresh capital in one country unless the owner of that capital is certain that his capital will be protected. That's why all my performances in this assembly, when the judiciary is on the agenda, are solely motivated by the reasons of the profession, and not by anything else. So please, Mr. Minister, don't talk about it anymore... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... Because it really falls within the domain of demagogy. I believe that both you and I are in the best interest of the judiciary functioning... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... And that it gets much more independence than it is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25593	The word has a minister and we end up with replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25594	It's interesting to hear – there's something I like to hear, so I pretend to hear it, something I don't like to hear, and then I guess I didn't hear it. I made it very clear that the EU insists on an approach that was founded since 2006, when the previous Justice Reform Strategy was adopted. Then someone took and just copied that strategy into the Constitution and assigned us, in the years that followed, enormous problems precisely in the area of justice thanks to it. I did not write a strategy in 2006, nor did I, nor did the party that proposed me as minister, propose that the ministry absolutely withdraw and delete its role in the judiciary. I didn't write that strategy, I didn't work on its implementation, and that's what the strategy predicted. Therefore, what is based on this strategy in principle, we are obliged to apply. I made myself very clear and said, if we were to discuss only as lawyers – I have an opinion. It's like a moment ago when I was talking, which someone figured out that getting papers and paper clips in court could affect the court's independence. Today at the Court of Appeals in Belgrade, not today but 10 months ago, at the beginning of the year, there was not a single line of paper, not a single stapler, not a single stapler, because the money in the previous year was spent on quite fifteen things. Then the president comes to you from some department or performer of office then the President of the Court and tells people at the Ministry – help us with this, because we do not have the conditions to work. And you can tell him the easiest thing – it's not my jurisdiction, please, if I get you a printer, I'll affect your independence. So, are we going in this direction to reduce the responsibilities of the National Assembly, and is that what I've been having extremely good conversations with the esteemed Mr Frattini, whom you mentioned? Yeah. You know why we came into this situation? Because 10 years ago, no one wanted to deal with the criteria and criteria for assessing the work of judges and prosecutors. Because they no longer had norms to meet. Because no one controlled them in that regard. Because they're not from a higher level, whether the court, whether the executive authorities, had someone to initiate the resolution of those who were not professional, worthy or qualified to perform that function. Then the question arises that anyone who chooses judges will actually exercise influence over the judiciary through that choice, so that is where they should be made independent. I said - the judge should be independent of any foreign influence, the judge must not be independent of the law. I've been on a number of occasions over the past few months to get complaints from citizens who are still speaking to the minister, where it appears that the judge did not uphold the law, where the judge judges according to the law he taught when he was a student, and he graduated from college 25-30 years ago, where the court no longer controls his work. Not a court, not a legislative authority, but a court. I'm sorry, not legislative, not executive, but judicial authority and court. That's what we need to talk about. I have made very clear the political direction in which changes in our judiciary will take place. It's enough to see how the countries that our neighbors took that way. We won't be very different in that. At this point, I would be delighted if we could apply a form of Slovenia, but not the EU, but address that opinion to the Venice Commission, it will be against it. That's the point. We've come into a situation where we have the most criteria and we're asked to do a lot of things. There is no excuse, it has to be fulfilled and it has to be done in such a way, and the judges, with an increase in independence, are also given an increase in responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25595	The word has the People's MP Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25596	Thank you for letting me finally speak. The Honorable Chairman, respected justice ministers and cabinet members, respected fellow MPs and MPs, to return to the essence of what we have today before us, and these are proposals for four important laws in the field of justice, where we have proved, regardless of what was at the beginning when the agenda of our colleagues was determined, which was a joint single search, that these four points could still have been joined into one, since it was obviously mainly the attention of the MPs that took the most important point, which is the point on the network of courts. Just because citizens who have just started to watch this transmission or because of citizens who have become involved earlier and have not been able to figure out what we are really discussing here today, it should be said that these are laws: the Law on Seats and Areas of the Courts and Public Prosecutors, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges and, too, the Public Prosecutor's Office. Why do I remind the citizens of Serbia? Because at one point, the thread that we're talking about was lost and could be thought, and it's not now in the Parliament Hall that talked about it, that it's actually about the lamentation over the reform of the judiciary that was in Serbia from 2008 to 2012, which just as a tsunami has done huge damage here. Or today it's about discussing how much damage our country will have to pay for the fact that about 600 judges are left without their judge's office also in that failed and devastating reform of the judiciary, so after the Constitutional Court's decision, after three years, the state will now have to allocate huge funds for paying damages for all those times that the judges couldn't do their job. Fortunately, not from the tabloids, but from more serious newspapers, I read our minister's statements, who said he would do anything to make an extrajudicial settlement and reduce the damage that is apparently in millions of dollars in front of our country. I also want to thank you, Minister, for spending all 10 hours with us today, for very exhaustively explaining the bill's proposals, both at the beginning and corresponding to every authorised representative of his questions, dilemmas, and even some historical lessons, because some of us obviously missed certain lessons in history, not knowing how much a historical figure in the foundation of the Serbian state really do have, but that's not so important. I also want to thank all the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups who spoke before me, whether they had a positive critical reference to your bill or they had a negative one, because that only helps us decide whether to vote or not. On the other hand, it's quite important, if not for us, then for the citizens of Serbia to see if anyone is seriously accessing this matter or if someone is using their time to spend it on certain political matters or whether it's giving false information here on the bill proposals and the exact matter that exists here. Obviously, as I have pointed out, the most public and MPs' attention has been passed by one law, which is, as I would say in a Colloquial way, the Law on the Network of Courts and Public Prosecutors in Serbia, and of course, in several sentences as an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, I will try to isolate several of the most important things in this bill. Here the question was being raised, now it depends on who was asking it, so maybe he didn't want to see what the goal was and what were the reasons why it went into this bill at all, why there were no changes and additions. But I said, when the tsunami passes, then it's very difficult just to paint the walls of the house, it's much more cellular to start from the beginning and build the foundations of the house of justice as it should be. So far, even now under the current law, not to forget, this law is still in force, there is a network of 34 basic courts. These three years since the application of the applicable law, it has been passed in 2008, and has been in place since 2010, there have been really numerous shortcomings in the work of courts, in the judicial network, especially since there were few basic courts. So 34 is a huge number of judicial units and only the layman can say that it was something positive. I don't argue, colleagues don't have to be lawyers to talk about this bill. It's also a mistake that this is some professional debate. No, this is a debate of people representing citizens in this House. I was surprised to hear that one of the colleagues who spoke here was a lawyer and said that the existence of a large number of judicial units was something extremely positive in the current state of the network of courts. So that fact created huge problems, problems for the parties, problems for all participants in the process. I also think about lawyers, I also think about witches, because only one who has never had a trial in a remote court has not felt what it looks like to come to trial alone and how simply, the appointment of one hearing takes over a full day's work, and there's nothing else you can do that day and if you're professionally involved, and if you're just an interested party in the process. The problem has created facts in this network of courts, a large number of seats in Serbia that have lost its court. Because if you say there are now 34 basic courts, I don't see what was epochal in the existing network, because they ignored themselves in that reform in 2008 and the number of inhabitants and the very tradition of the place where they had before that the basic court in their decades of existence. I don't know what the previous minister led, or those who helped him, to bring that number of courts down to only 34 places. Based on an analysis of the work carried out, it has been found that a number of basic courts, that is why it has increased to the current ones in this bill of law provided for 66 courts, simply that it will be possible, when you say 34 and 66, somehow only the comparison tells you that more citizens are allowed access to courts and that more citizens can protect their rights and interests. What no one here has mentioned, it seems to me that you have twice tried to impose that subject, but colleagues did not want to hear it, that according to the territorial organisation of the courts it was carried out and the change of the territorial organisation of public prosecutors. There are 58 of them in this bill. Why not 66? The reason is pure rationality. There is no need for the prosecution to fully cover the number of basic courts. One of the reasons very important, it is also an uneven increase in the number of basic courts and certainly an unequal burden of courts in the existing network, observed through the annual inflow of cases. Those MPs who are in infidelity, who really want to get to know the percentages of the inflow of cases in certain courts, can look at it in the context of the bill's proposal, because it's a very detailed analysis. There are reasons why somewhere now there are no basic courts, or judicial units, and there are newly formed proposals for the formation of basic courts. Certainly, the existence of a larger number of courts, as I have pointed out, is a greater, better availability of protection of citizens from basic courts, as well as more effective exercise of their rights. Here was the question on what criteria did this decide where basic courts would be deployed in these 66 cities and municipalities? Of course, in any case professional and professional criteria, the estimated number of inhabitants of the city, it is obviously their geographical distance from the seat of the court, the development of the travel network, the quality of the travel network, geographically, demographically, and even climate reasons. I commend the Ministry because it suggested that there was a basic court in the Chamber and we all know why it was done. When a law is proposed and adopted, the most important thing is to explain to the citizens of Serbia what the goals we intend to achieve in these bill proposals are how they will affect ordinary citizens and less important, that we here as MPs are going to give some of our political evaluations, which is why we have heard a lamentation over the past, if it was a good past reform. Did something happen to our country and our people in one part of the Republic of Serbia yesterday? The most important thing is that citizens understand what the purpose of the new bill is, because they cannot cope as much as in the last few years we have new and new solutions. So, because of the citizens of Serbia, not because of us here, which we are all very politically profiled and defined, it should be reiterated that it is expected primarily to be easier to achieve equal and easy access to the court, faster and more efficient to solve the case. What also surprised me was that my colleagues did not pay more attention to this, to the reduction, to the evidently painful points of our judiciary, and these are the number of accumulated backlogs from previous years, and what is most devastating are the backlogs of the previous decades. The most important thing for citizens is why the number of basic courts is increasing. Why now there are 66 in the bill, not 34 so far. The fact that they are primarily expected to exercise their right to trial within a reasonable period of time and, of course, what should always be stressed is that the effect of reducing court costs is expected. As for the debate on the proposed concrete legislative solutions, this will be addressed by the SNS parliamentary group on the day we discuss amendments, i.e. the details of the law. Of course, we will look back on both the good and the negative solutions, so we will give our opinions why we will not support certain amendments. I would now point out, precisely because of the disinformation brought here by individual MPs, some cities and municipalities that are intended to form basic courts, and this was not before, although they know which places there are courts in which they do not exist and cannot therefore, some MPs to seduce them with their rhetoric. I'm going to use that right because I'm an MP from the AP Vojvodina from Novi Sad. I have a large number of MEPs from Vojvodina at the SNS Parliament Club who are from Vojvodina and in agreement with them I would like to commend the promoter, the Ministry of Justice and the competent minister for correcting the great injustice done to the citizens of Vojvodina. From some backgrounds, especially in the part of Srema, because it is unknown why we were punished by the reform of 2008 and 2010, respectively, because the judicial network was decimated in Vojvodina. In Article 3. The laws show exactly what new courts are, i.e. the existing judicial network. I heard one of the MPs say, "Where is the court in Backo Palanca?" I have to tell my colleagues to look at Article 3 and find out where the court is in Backo Palanca, and that's the General Court in Backo Topoli. In the list we have the courts of Backo Palanka, I am talking about Vojvodina, Vienna, Senta, Vrbas, Ruma, Stara Paz, Shid, with existing basic courts. So a significant improvement has been made that will allow citizens easier access, more effective judicial protection, and will be easier to exercise their rights. We were really, Minister, punished by the previous minister, and we never got an explanation why. The introduction of courts, of course in other parts of Serbia, Arangelovac, Gornji Milanovac, Dimitrovgrad, Majdanpek, Obrenovac, Priboj, many other places. Who is interested in the exact list of basic courts envisaged, please take a closer look at Article 3 of the Law. What's important and what's mentioned here twice as pessimisticly, that's what I want to say. Therefore, directing appeal proceedings to courts located closest to interested parties and citizens, it is a newspaper. Cost reduction, more effective approach to court. Examples of the citizens of Panchev and Capca. It's an extremely commendable thing to be introduced by this proposal of the court. In the future, they will implement their appeal procedures in them closer to the appeals courts, which are Belgrade and Novi Sad. We are a unique state, in Serbia's territory a unique network of courts and ask the citizens of Pančev if they want to exercise their rights more in the appeal procedure in Belgrade, which is across the bridge and ask also the ordinary citizens of Sapca, whether it is a problem that the appeal process, which will be subject to consideration in the court of Novi Sad. I think these solutions are extremely good and this time it was meant for citizens, not for political imaginations and desires, so that they would like the network of courts to be isolated on some imagined administrative borders of our country. Kosovo and Metohija, also a certain transitional solution, one of their colleagues asked that it be repeated in Serbian, here I will repeat in Serbian – that the bill sets a transitional solution for the courts and public prosecutors responsible for the territory of the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, which will allow their continued work and protection of the rights of our citizens in the Republic of Serbia. I don't think there's anything controversial about it if someone doesn't want to see something controversial with other eyes. All interested parties have had the opportunity to plead on this bill, which is now in the Assembly and to give their opinion, beginning with representatives of judicial functions, lawyers, prosecutors. I must stress to many colleagues that national council representatives participated in this, that employers' associations, representatives of local self-government and local environments were involved, a public debate was held in this house, not full-time, a year ago. So anyone who has found enough time, who has wanted, who has really wanted to advance the network of courts in our country, has had plenty of time to deliver their proposals to the promoter and, of course, MPs keep their right to invest now, or have already invested over 200 amendments on these bill proposals, to try to fix this bill. Obviously, from the very text of the proposal of this law, it will create conditions for improving the efficiency of the judiciary and I will quote the European Commission's report on Serbia since 16 October 2013, in which they state that this is a step in the availability of justice to citizens. As far as the proposal is concerned, I don't know how much time I'm going to have, obviously not much, about the other proposals that the minister has proposed, that will be done by my colleagues who are indeed from the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group to discuss all the proposals here, the bill on amendments and additions to the laws governing prosecutors and courts, I won't have time to explain. What's most important... (President: Time Mrs Gojkovic. ) I apologize, it seemed to me that for 20 minutes, there was only one sentence that the Serbian Progressive Party's parliamentary group would vote for the proposed laws, and in particular in the day for details.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25597	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25598	Thank you, Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will really take the opportunity to look back at something that I think is extremely important, it has been mentioned today in the presentations of several fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, namely this new nature of the judicial unit under this law on seats and areas and the law on the regulation of courts. Of course, one question has been asked – why in some municipalities do we have a court and we do not have a basic public prosecutor's office? First of all, I would like to point out that in this proposal, there are several examples of very specific cases that differ from others. In fact, it is two municipalities, two settlements, among which there is an extremely small kilometre distance and where there is a single court for the area of such two or more municipalities. Let me give you some examples, for example, of Vienna and New Vienna, of Vrbasa and Kula, of Old Paz and Indjia, of the Great Plan and Smederjevska Palanka, of Surdulica and Vladic's Han, of Bruce and Alexandrovec. We have found ourselves in a situation where, according to the criteria defined by the working group by direct application of these criteria, we have established that, individually speaking, this municipality, any of those that I have cited, does not meet all the criteria set out to establish a basic court. We've managed this little geodetic distance between two places, and we've identified that we can make one court for the area of both such municipalities and that it really becomes a strong court. Here, for example, are some examples such as the case of the basic court in the proposal stands, the basic court in Old Paz, and the judicial unit in India is said. I know the citizens asked me what that means. Why isn't the Indjia court? Why do citizens ask me that? Well, they're asking me because they're aware that an existing judicial unit is organized the way it's organized today, that it's not a court, and here it won't be a situation. What exactly is this about? Even when we have an identical situation between the two municipalities, literally by all accounts, we come to the problem of judicial infrastructure. Sometimes, in Old Paz, a court building that will only be in charge of Old Paz has been secured. You today when you form a double court, you come to a problem that you have no place to put judges, no court office, no associates who follow the work of a judge, no tenants, no civil servants. So that's one of the big problems. That's why we introduced the paper so that a lawsuit and guilt could be tried in the judicial unit. For example, who asked the question – why is the office of the prosecutor's office in Vladica Han and the seat of the court in Surdulica? Well, you can already see that the guilt will mostly be tried in Vladica Han, who has more cases than Surdulica, but it is indeed a specific geographical area. I'll give you a counter example. You have an example of an extremely few kilometers distance between Bujanovac and Vranj. If we had applied this previous criterion here, Bujanovac probably wouldn't have had a court. But, respecting the interest that exists in southeastern Serbia, specific and cultural and ethnic situations, we went to see that in Bujanovac it should be a basic court that will cover the area of municipalities and Bujanovac and Presevo. I am also expressing my satisfaction that I am informed that even in the judicial academy, we have students who are members of the Albanian minority from Yugoslav Serbia who attend the initial training, I am confident that they will end successfully, which means that we also have a frame that will be able to work in that court in the future. Someone mentioned certain areas that are geographically inaccessible to the Visoravan Cave, the largest part of the year is, but the good part of the year is covered with snow, the warm season lasts more than eight months. The court is scheduled to return to Sjenica, because of the size of the territory, because it covers the border area. Will that court be able to work at full capacity? The truth is that there are few cases missing to do so, but the reason is extremely important that there is a court, and that should not be questioned. So I listed this court of Indjia and Old Paz, Surdulice and Vladica Han, Smederjevska Palanka and the Great Plana, places of approximately the same size, approximately the same population. If you ask me what was the reason to put the Supreme Court in the Great Plan, not the Smederjevska Palanca, I'll tell you because it's a much better court building in the Great Plana. So infrastructure is just better. Let me get back to what's been said about judicial units and what someone's been trying to show the abolition of the judicial unit as a misappropriation of the court. I can tell you that in the first half of this year, the Department of Justice working group and the State Administration who visited all the judicial units and all the seats of the court in the Republic of Serbia, established more than 60% of the judicial units a disaster. Only when the new court presidents came in, I'm going to give you a concrete example, I was in Vrbas a few weeks ago, I visited the former district court building in Vrbas, on purpose, I visited the building of a former municipal court in Vrbas, but here, if you want, I don't have to, I was in the Petrovac courthouse building at Mlava. In 1906, The Kingdom of Serbia has built a building that has 998 square meters, which has a large ballroom that has been decorated with extraordinary, the Republic of Serbia has been unable to repair the roof of the building for 25 years. Since it became a judicial unit from the headquarters of the General Court in Požarevec, no single memo has arrived that the building is sneezing, that it has long ceased, that it has begun to leak on the ground floor and in the basement, and that part of the roof on the first floor has almost completely destroyed. It's the same situation in Verbas. So, about the units of the court, about the needs of the judges that work in them, absolutely in more than 90% of the cases, no one cared or cared. It's sad when you walk into many of these buildings, I'm talking especially about those units that are now going to become courts, it's sad when you walk into these buildings and you see that there's no more furniture, when one part of the building doesn't use for four or five years, it collapses more than 20 years of use. Absolute riding and non-domestic behavior and behavior, that's what you can see in action, to a good extent images and opportunities of our country and the state in which it has been in for many years, which is very sad. On the other hand, you can see the buildings of the judicial units that have been erected in the last fifteen years where no one, who stands in the new buildings empty, pays the costs as if they were full, pays the costs of heating, security, electricity, all communals. Therefore, I will really point out once again, the proposed network, the proposed law on the seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, perhaps it could have been our wish, probably that one day so-called. The "judicial network" will be better. It's possible at this point. Once again, I quote what was just said, but I think it's very important to underline it. A new approach to criminal proceedings, a prosecutor's investigation significantly more visible, more active and greater role as prosecutors, demands and extends the network of public prosecutors, and will be the most visible application, but also the fact that in the judicial unit will be able to act in all matter. I'm trying to cover everything that's been said. One more thing, one of the fellow MPs said that Belgrade may also need more basic courts than three basic courts in the city's midst. Who said that I think he's right, but that just right now is this solution within the limits of opportunity. It will also be difficult, much easier than now to manage the First Court that will have over 100 judges, at this point there are over 230. Well, we just need to know every judge and know what he's like. That president of the court has to be a superhuman. I believe that with this proposal we rationalise the network, make it much more effective, and we come into a situation where the judges, the ones that need to follow the new concept of justice and manage the judiciary, create conditions for them to do it better than they have ever done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25599	Mr. Veselinović, on what basis, do I apologize? (Janko Veselinovic, from the post: Replica since the authorised representative of the SNS spoke more than the law. No, she didn't mention you at all. It has spoken – some speakers, MPs, etc.; but I did not conclude that she did not, therefore, have the right to reply to you. We're done. Just to find out that all authorized representatives have used their rights. Today we finish our work and continue tomorrow at 10:00, with the list that's been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25600	Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the eighth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. This special session, in accordance with Article 119(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have called for the oath of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, who, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Judges, takes the oath before the National Assembly. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, Mr Dragomir Milojevic, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, and, besides him, I welcome all the guests present at this session, including representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Nikola Selakovic, the President of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Presidents of the Republic rank courts, the Presidents of the Court of Appeals and other guests. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the first session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 31 October 2013, elected Mr Dragomir Milojevic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I also remind you that Article 53 is Section 2. The Law on Judges provides for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court to take an oath before the National Assembly. Accordingly, I call on Mr Dragomir Milojevic, president of the Supreme Cassation Court, to approach to take the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath and the President of the Supreme Cassation Court repeats it. ) “I swear to my glass that I will do my function faithfully to the Constitution and to the law, according to my best knowledge and skill and serve only truth and justice.” Congratulations, and I wish you a lot of success in your work. Please sign the text of the oath, and then you can address the National Assembly. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I am opening the eighth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. This special session, in accordance with Article 119(2) and (3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have called for the oath of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, who, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Judges, takes the oath before the National Assembly. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf, Mr Dragomir Milojevic, the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, and, besides him, I welcome all the guests present at this session, including representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Nikola Selakovic, the President of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Presidents of the Republic rank courts, the Presidents of the Court of Appeals and other guests. I remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, at the first session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 31 October 2013, elected Mr Dragomir Milojevic as President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I also remind you that Article 53 is Section 2. The Law on Judges provides for the President of the Supreme Cassation Court to take an oath before the National Assembly. Accordingly, I call on Mr Dragomir Milojevic, president of the Supreme Cassation Court, to approach to take the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath and the President of the Supreme Cassation Court repeats it. ) “I swear to my glass that I will do my function faithfully to the Constitution and to the law, according to my best knowledge and skill and serve only truth and justice.” Congratulations, and I wish you a lot of success in your work. Please sign the text of the oath, and then you can address the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25608	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Today is the day when MPs have the right to ask questions, so I ask the MPs, who want to ask a question, to apply. The word has the People's Messenger Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25609	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy, Dr Janko Veselinović. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 10th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 102 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) The word has a folk envoy, Dr Janko Veselinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25611	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the session, I find that the session is attended by 130 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Zoran M Bojanic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you, aside from the representative of Proponent Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of traffic, that I have called on the sittings to attend both Dejan Lasica and Mirjana Trifunovic, the assistant minister of traffic. You have been presented a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Day to answer parliamentary questions concerning the current topic and the minutes of the First and Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of those minutes. I am voting on the paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions on the current topic since 14 March 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – voted 36, out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day to answer parliamentary questions regarding the current topic since 14 March 2013. I am voting on the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 7, 8, 11, 13, 14 and 15 March 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted 33, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held 7, 8, 11, 13, 14 and 15 March 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26, 27 and 28 March and 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 34, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26, 27 and 28 March and 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8 April 2013. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed putting the draft railway law on the agenda, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 April 2013. This is the 1st point of the proposed agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted 41, out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group proposed that the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted 46, out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 167 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177, out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 178 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Democratic Party Group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 25 out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Liberal Democratic Party Group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 9 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 24 out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Citizens' Protector proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extraparnical Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 31 MPs of the Democratic Party Group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 161 out of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security forces training mission Mali (EUTM Mali) on the agenda in 2013, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – voted 49 out of the 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the state financial loan to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 30 April 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 191 of the total presence of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We move on to proposals to supplement the proposed agenda. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 January 2013, to the point – a bill amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 January 2013 and to the point – a bill amending and supplementing the Law establishing maximum earnings in the public sector, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 November 2012. Does MP Srdjan Mikovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Dear People's MPs, I am opening the third session of the first regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the session, I find that the session is attended by 130 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 132 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Zoran M Bojanic. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you, aside from the representative of Proponent Milutin Mrkonjic, the minister of traffic, that I have called on the sittings to attend both Dejan Lasica and Mirjana Trifunovic, the assistant minister of traffic. You have been presented a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the Day to answer parliamentary questions concerning the current topic and the minutes of the First and Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of those minutes. I am voting on the paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in Dan to answer parliamentary questions on the current topic since 14 March 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 130, against – no one, with abstention – voted 36, out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted a paper on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the day to answer parliamentary questions regarding the current topic since 14 March 2013. I am voting on the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 7, 8, 11, 13, 14 and 15 March 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 132, no one, with abstentions, voted 33, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held 7, 8, 11, 13, 14 and 15 March 2013. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26, 27 and 28 March and 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 131 against – no one, the abstentioned – voted 34, out of the 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, held on 26, 27 and 28 March and 2, 3, 4, 5 and 8 April 2013. This session, which was delivered to you, contained a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda the urgent procedure, the proposals for supplementing the proposed agenda and the proposal for a merger of discussions. The government proposed putting the draft railway law on the agenda, which submitted to the National Assembly on 1 April 2013. This is the 1st point of the proposed agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted 41, out of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The United Regions of Serbia parliamentary group proposed that the draft decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 127, against – no one, with abstention – voted 46, out of the 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Prosecutor's Law, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—eight, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 167 out of the 176 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Amendments and Supplements Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 177, out of the 177 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed that the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 178 out of the 178 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The Democratic Party Group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the draft decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 8 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154 against – no one, with abstention – one, voted 25 out of the 180 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Liberal Democratic Party Group proposed that an urgent procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and alternate members of the Republic Election Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 9 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 24 out of the 181 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The Citizens' Protector proposed that the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Extraparnical Procedure, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 19 April 2013, be put on the agenda. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, with abstentions, voted 159 out of the 182 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. A group of 31 MPs of the Democratic Party Group proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 30, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 161 out of the 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. The government proposed putting the draft decision on the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security forces training mission Mali (EUTM Mali) on the agenda in 2013, which submitted to the National Assembly on 24 April 2013. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 143 against – no one, with abstention – voted 49 out of the 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. The government has proposed that, following an emergency procedure, the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the approval of the state financial loan to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which submitted to the National Assembly on 30 April 2013. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted – 191 of the total presence of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We move on to proposals to supplement the proposed agenda. National MP Srdjan Mikovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a draft law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 January 2013, to the point – a bill amending the Law on Chambers of Commerce, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 8 January 2013 and to the point – a bill amending and supplementing the Law establishing maximum earnings in the public sector, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 November 2012. Does MP Srdjan Mikovic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25614	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, each MP has the right to propose legislation. A number of our MPs have taken advantage of that possibility and tried to make certain suggestions to the National Assembly better regulated. It is precisely that there is a whole series of draft laws in the assembly procedure that have in no way provoked the reaction of the competent ministry or the government of the Republic of Serbia, that which has larger resources, offers a better solution than those offered in the draft laws, which the MPs have submitted. Today we will be able to plead, i.e. to determine how many draft laws have, for example, been tabled by DS MPs and suggested that the Government, if it has more opportunities than we do, make a better solution. I suggest that the agenda be complemented by three draft laws. These draft laws were submitted in the procedure on 23 November 2012, then on 8 January 2013 and 23 January 2013. The last proposal proposed to supplement the agenda is from 23 January 2013, which is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Several times here, at the tide, I spoke and explained that every local self-government, depending on the specificity and needs of the field, should be allowed to manage and finance local self-government, means that it scholarships, students and students from its territory. My colleague, Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, introduced me to this problem, and this very idea, a good idea, I kind of stepped into the bill with an attempt to enable the best students and students to scholarship and thus stay on the ground, stay inside Serbia, not all of them to come to Belgrade. The Chief Ministry said it was all right, but there's no official response until today. Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies of the People's Parliament, on the basis of Article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, each MP has the right to propose legislation. A number of our MPs have taken advantage of that possibility and tried to make certain suggestions to the National Assembly better regulated. It is precisely that there is a whole series of draft laws in the assembly procedure that have in no way provoked the reaction of the competent ministry or the government of the Republic of Serbia, that which has larger resources, offers a better solution than those offered in the draft laws, which the MPs have submitted. Today we will be able to plead, i.e. to determine how many draft laws have, for example, been tabled by DS MPs and suggested that the Government, if it has more opportunities than we do, make a better solution. I suggest that the agenda be complemented by three draft laws. These draft laws were submitted in the procedure on 23 November 2012, then on 8 January 2013 and 23 January 2013. The last proposal proposed to supplement the agenda is from 23 January 2013, which is the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Several times here, at the tide, I spoke and explained that every local self-government, depending on the specificity and needs of the field, should be allowed to manage and finance local self-government, means that it scholarships, students and students from its territory. My colleague, Mrs. Nada Kolundzija, introduced me to this problem, and this very idea, a good idea, I kind of stepped into the bill with an attempt to enable the best students and students to scholarship and thus stay on the ground, stay inside Serbia, not all of them to come to Belgrade. The Chief Ministry said it was all right, but there's no official response until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25617	Dear People's MPs, National Assembly President, Honorable Ministers of Justice, President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, indeed at this moment which may be one of the most important moments in my personal and professional life is difficult to find words without falling into the trap of repetitive stereotypes. I remind you that it is my duty and my obligation to thank you, the People's MPs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for showing me your trust and my honor, by choosing me as President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the most judicial institution in the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, I'm taking this opportunity, and maybe someone will say that I'm using it, by thanking all the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court who gave me support because without their support, I certainly wouldn't be standing here in front of you. As I said, I am standing before you now aware of the challenges facing me, above all in implementing further judicial reforms. I am aware of my obligations and duties in further directing the most complex and significant reforms that are under way in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I am ready to create an organized, stable and powerful judiciary together with my fellow judges across Serbia, my work and their co-operation. A powerful judiciary that will characterize independence, impartiality, efficiency, accountability and transparency. I'm really a little excited, so it's hard to say what I'm about to tell you, but it's certain that the judiciary just won't be able to carry that burden out and reach the goal in that sense. It therefore requires the assistance of all relevant institutions and entities, in particular the National Assembly, which, to that end, takes the most important place, particularly in the area of law-making, quality laws that are in line with European laws, European standards and now European law, etc. ‘ekim’. It's the only way we'll achieve the goals I've mentioned in advance, related to the characteristics of our judiciary. In the end, I thank you once again for your expressed confidence, and I hope, by my work, I will show that trust and justify it. Thank you for your attention and cheers. Dear People's MPs, National Assembly President, Honorable Ministers of Justice, President of the Constitutional Court of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, indeed at this moment which may be one of the most important moments in my personal and professional life is difficult to find words without falling into the trap of repetitive stereotypes. I remind you that it is my duty and my obligation to thank you, the People's MPs, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, for showing me your trust and my honor, by choosing me as President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the most judicial institution in the Republic of Serbia. At the same time, I'm taking this opportunity, and maybe someone will say that I'm using it, by thanking all the judges of the Supreme Cassation Court who gave me support because without their support, I certainly wouldn't be standing here in front of you. As I said, I am standing before you now aware of the challenges facing me, above all in implementing further judicial reforms. I am aware of my obligations and duties in further directing the most complex and significant reforms that are under way in the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, I am ready to create an organized, stable and powerful judiciary together with my fellow judges across Serbia, my work and their co-operation. A powerful judiciary that will characterize independence, impartiality, efficiency, accountability and transparency. I'm really a little excited, so it's hard to say what I'm about to tell you, but it's certain that the judiciary just won't be able to carry that burden out and reach the goal in that sense. It therefore requires the assistance of all relevant institutions and entities, in particular the National Assembly, which, to that end, takes the most important place, particularly in the area of law-making, quality laws that are in line with European laws, European standards and now European law, etc. ‘ekim’. It's the only way we'll achieve the goals I've mentioned in advance, related to the characteristics of our judiciary. In the end, I thank you once again for your expressed confidence, and I hope, by my work, I will show that trust and justify it. Thank you for your attention and cheers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25625	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in the long run, Albanians from the Presevo Valley are hostages of unresolved relations between Serbia and Kosovo. They were perfectly normal expectations that their life problems would be dealt with more seriously when the Brussels talks on normalising these relationships began. However, the Brussels agreements so far have largely worked to resolve the situation of the Serb community in Kosovo, while still remains a difficult position for Albanians in Serbia. Officially, talks by Albanian representatives with the government on solving very difficult life problems, following tensions caused by the gendarme intervention to remove the monuments of the panel in Presevo, and in Bujanovac for the construction of a provocative memorial centre of the gendarme. At the very beginning, when the difficult position of Albanians in the judiciary was to be resolved, it turned out that this government does not deviate from a discriminatory relationship with Albanians in the area. Moreover, so far, the transfer of blame to the Albanian population for failing to realise the government's programme for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja in 2001, because Albanians allegedly do not want to exercise their rights. The government's representatives are now openly pushing for a drastic review of the yet-unachieved 2001 programme, conditioning it with their count, in this case, Albanians. Perfidously using a boycott of the Albanian census for imposing discriminatory conditions for the census, the government openly and even more drastically discriminates against all Albanians in Serbia by reducing funding to the Albanian National Council by 30%. The municipality of Presevo has been abolished by the basic court and the main prosecutor's office, because the municipality of 35,000 inhabitants from 2002 has been falsified with only three thousand inhabitants. Instead of 32 thousand existing Albanians in Presevo, the government recognises only 416 and in Bujanovac instead of 25,000 Albanians, the government recognises only 244 Albanians. In this absurd situation, imposed by the state with concrete decisions, both by abolishing courts, by reducing the financing of Presevo and Bujanovac municipalities, as well as the National Council of Albanians, as well as by eradicating the residence of refugees from this area during the war and emergency, but also by young Albanians working in Pristina or Gjilan, because they have no chance of being employed in Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedji. Now I ask the question – why has the federal and republican government programme for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja not been implemented so far, which was planned for the period 2001. - 2004? Why is the achievement of the basic objectives of this programme, above all economic revitalisation, the integration of Albanians into state authorities and institutions, conditioned with the count of Albanians, when it is known that more than ten thousand employees have been officially reported in Presevo alone? Why in Presevo, especially in Bujanovac and Medvedja, is nothing done to create at least minimum conditions for the return of the displaced and evasive population during the wartime conditions? Since the government obviously does not recognise almost 99% of Albanians in Presevo and Bujanovac through its decisions and solutions, does this mean that they have no obligation to the state? Are they then exempt from the obligation to pay taxes and other fees? Now to remind you, the former Yugoslavia, its governments have in the past had agreements on the eviction of their minorities. Whether these open moves are now showing the same intentions to be released in this case by the Albanian national minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25626	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, I will ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the President and Minister of Finance, as regards the excessive, or enormous borrowing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The total debt of the Republic of Serbia on 31 November 2014, according to the Ministry of Public Debt Administration of the Republic of Serbia's Ministry of Finance, is 22 billion 737m euros, or 28 billion 306m dollars. It is the record responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, in its history the highest responsibility, and that is the highest duty since 2000. In 2000, according to the same report by the Public Debt Administration, the debt in 2000 was 14 billion 167 million, the same debt, almost the same debt was at the end of 2011 14 billion and 787 million dinars. However, since the government's arrival, namely this coalition to power, the debt has increased by 7.5 billion and has reached 22 billion 286m euros. It's a record responsibility produced by this government. Looking at the same report, which is on the site of this administration, the participation of public debt in the GDP of the Republic of Serbia, was 45% in 2011 compared to the social gross product, and now at the end of November 2014, it is 69.2% of the social gross product. Therefore, the public debt, i.e. the debt of the Republic of Serbia, increased by an incredible 24% and exceeded the legal maximum debt prescribed by the law relating to public debt. So the Serbian government not only raised its debt by 7.5 billion euros, but also exceeded the legal amount of debt by 24%. As an illustration of the government's irrational behaviour in debt, here is the report by the DRI, which says the commission due to delays in withdrawing agreed loans for which the state guarantees were granted to Serbia amounted to 906 million dinars in 2013. So, not only are you in charge, that is, the government of Serbia is in charge, and you have ratified these duties, but you did not withdraw the loans in time, and therefore you pay for enormous foams, because you probably didn't have realised projects, and you were in debt. I ask the Serbian government what it will do in the next period to end its borrowing, since these days we have announcements of new borrowings from Chinese partners, because no one comes here to give money, but to lend loans? Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, I will ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the President and Minister of Finance, as regards the excessive, or enormous borrowing of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The total debt of the Republic of Serbia on 31 November 2014, according to the Ministry of Public Debt Administration of the Republic of Serbia's Ministry of Finance, is 22 billion 737m euros, or 28 billion 306m dollars. It is the record responsibility of the Republic of Serbia, in its history the highest responsibility, and that is the highest duty since 2000. In 2000, according to the same report by the Public Debt Administration, the debt in 2000 was 14 billion 167 million, the same debt, almost the same debt was at the end of 2011 14 billion and 787 million dinars. However, since the government's arrival, namely this coalition to power, the debt has increased by 7.5 billion and has reached 22 billion 286m euros. It's a record responsibility produced by this government. Looking at the same report, which is on the site of this administration, the participation of public debt in the GDP of the Republic of Serbia, was 45% in 2011 compared to the social gross product, and now at the end of November 2014, it is 69.2% of the social gross product. Therefore, the public debt, i.e. the debt of the Republic of Serbia, increased by an incredible 24% and exceeded the legal maximum debt prescribed by the law relating to public debt. So the Serbian government not only raised its debt by 7.5 billion euros, but also exceeded the legal amount of debt by 24%. As an illustration of the government's irrational behaviour in debt, here is the report by the DRI, which says the commission due to delays in withdrawing agreed loans for which the state guarantees were granted to Serbia amounted to 906 million dinars in 2013. So, not only are you in charge, that is, the government of Serbia is in charge, and you have ratified these duties, but you did not withdraw the loans in time, and therefore you pay for enormous foams, because you probably didn't have realised projects, and you were in debt. I ask the Serbian government what it will do in the next period to end its borrowing, since these days we have announcements of new borrowings from Chinese partners, because no one comes here to give money, but to lend loans?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25628	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 50, against – one abstention – there is no, no vote – 142 of the total attendance of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Karic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a declaration for Serbia without GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 February 2013. Does MP Ivan Karic want a word? Yeah. ) Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 50, against – one abstention – there is no, no vote – 142 of the total attendance of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Ivan Karic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – a proposal for a declaration for Serbia without GMOs, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 5 February 2013. Does MP Ivan Karic want a word? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25639	I will read the order of MPs: Emir Elfic, Sanja Jefić Brankovic, Olena Papuga, Olgica Batić, Bojana Djordjevic, Tamara Tripic and Ljubisa Stojmirović. The word has the People's MP Emir Elfic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25640	Time. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25642	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I hope you read my declaration with the same zeal and carelessness, as you read the declaration of Vojvodina and I hope you could think with the same ferocity about that declaration. I want to inform you that 48 cities and municipalities have so far adopted a declaration for their cities without genetically modified products and without genetically modified production. This is how they joined hundreds of regions in the EU. This means that this declaration is not against any EU law, and primarily represents and extends the policy of all the greens in the EU and Europe, all the green parties in Europe. Anything that can cause doubt must not be found on the market of the Republic of Serbia and must not be found in the seed production of the Republic of Serbia. This area is not fully understood and the consequences of genetically modified organisms entering our agriculture and our trade can be far-reaching and dangerous. After all, what is the strategic interest in our country? Of the 240 sovereign states, even 40 have not ratified the World Trade Organisation documents you're telling us so much about the import of GMO seeds into their countries. Germany, France has not ratified these agreements on genetically modified organisms, and Switzerland has introduced moratorium. Can an independent country that has earned from the production of seed for itself and for export allow itself to become dependent on other people's seed and, after all, on other people's will. We have no right to ourselves, nor to our children, and we have no right to this house where we all swear to play with this question. Can the World Trade Organization punish us? It cannot punish us because only 37 countries have accepted their terms, and over 200 countries that are members of the World Trade Organisation have not accepted these conditions. You can't tell this country either, and you can't tell us as MPs, you can't order it, it's in Angolan law, it's probably fellow MPs who are lawyers who know, it's called blackmail. If we're willing to accept this blackmail act by the World Trade Organisation, then we won't vote for this declaration. Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I hope you read my declaration with the same zeal and carelessness, as you read the declaration of Vojvodina and I hope you could think with the same ferocity about that declaration. I want to inform you that 48 cities and municipalities have so far adopted a declaration for their cities without genetically modified products and without genetically modified production. This is how they joined hundreds of regions in the EU. This means that this declaration is not against any EU law, and primarily represents and extends the policy of all the greens in the EU and Europe, all the green parties in Europe. Anything that can cause doubt must not be found on the market of the Republic of Serbia and must not be found in the seed production of the Republic of Serbia. This area is not fully understood and the consequences of genetically modified organisms entering our agriculture and our trade can be far-reaching and dangerous. After all, what is the strategic interest in our country? Of the 240 sovereign states, even 40 have not ratified the World Trade Organisation documents you're telling us so much about the import of GMO seeds into their countries. Germany, France has not ratified these agreements on genetically modified organisms, and Switzerland has introduced moratorium. Can an independent country that has earned from the production of seed for itself and for export allow itself to become dependent on other people's seed and, after all, on other people's will. We have no right to ourselves, nor to our children, and we have no right to this house where we all swear to play with this question. Can the World Trade Organization punish us? It cannot punish us because only 37 countries have accepted their terms, and over 200 countries that are members of the World Trade Organisation have not accepted these conditions. You can't tell this country either, and you can't tell us as MPs, you can't order it, it's in Angolan law, it's probably fellow MPs who are lawyers who know, it's called blackmail. If we're willing to accept this blackmail act by the World Trade Organisation, then we won't vote for this declaration.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25645	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow MPs, the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration has published the text of the draft law on national councils of national minorities. A public debate has been opened on this issue, which is under way since 25 November of this year and will continue until 17 December 2013. The existing National Minority Councils Act showed its full lack in 2010 when there were also choirs under the law, which showed shortcomings in the pre-election processes, during the elections and also in the post-election process. Also, in terms of correspondence between national councils and competent state authorities, the level of communication was not satisfactory. As far as I've been able to see, this bill treats more technical, procedural issues than the national councils themselves. I don't want to talk about content. When that law comes into practice in the Assembly, it can be talked about the content itself. But I want to ask a set of questions to the Ministry of Justice – why has this approach been made to preparing for the change of the law? Namely, it only appeared on the Justice and State Administration site, without any additional information and transparent information to anyone interested in this matter, and I am fully convinced that interest, when all national communities in Serbia are concerned, is great when it comes to this law. I wonder why it's such a short time for a public hearing? Why are the public and interested parties not more transparently informed, but only through the Ministry's website? Why is the public debate not open to the general public, but closes in a circle chosen by the ministry, which created and created a working group? In public debates, as far as I know, only one was held in Vrsac, directly invited participants who could attend. Why has this not been informed of the parliamentary parties of national minorities who, by my deep conviction, were to participate in the design itself and in the procedure of public debate? The final question is why is the law not available in the languages of national minorities and only making comments, which is the constitutional and legal law of national communities in the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25646	One question for you, President. One question for you, President.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25648	I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 65, no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote – 131 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 2013. The word is Dr. Stojkovic. I ask the Members of Parliament to make a statement on this proposal. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 65, no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote – 131 of the 197 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 2 April 2013. The word is Dr. Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25651	The word has a folk MP Sanja Jeftic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25652	It's been five minutes. You'll ask me next time. It's been five minutes. You'll ask me next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25654	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this initiative is in fact one logical consequence of that public hearing we had here at the National Assembly on March 7th, which refers to the amendment of the Law on Higher Education, and in fact to giving equality and testimony to foreign schools with the testimony of domestic schools of the same kind through a detailed comparison of study programmes, acquired and requested qualifications, or, in short, the nostration of diplomas of our people studying abroad or completed doctoral studies abroad. The number of these people is very large and the number of people returning to the country would certainly be greater if this procedure were not so complicated, difficult, even expensive. Let me remind you, there are two kinds of nostrifications in our country. One is academic, for further education, the other is for employment, and that's so-called. Professional nostration degree. For the nosetriification of higher education diplomas is the responsibility of the university, or independent high school, which means that we have a large number of different classifications and structurings, as defined by the nostration of diplomas at certain universities, or universities. This process can take a very long time, after a few years, it can cost a lot. At Belgrade University, recognition of a doctoral degree costs 500 euros, foreign citizens 1,000 euros, and costs up to 2,000 euros in private somewhere. We're proposing a 60-day cut, we're proposing a certain tariff that has to do with and makes sense with the country we live in. In Croatia, for example, the price is 65 euros. Why would we pay 2,000 euros here to nostrify a diploma? On the other hand, there is another paradox, which is that the state of Serbia has sent 983 students abroad to school in the last three school years, through the Youth Fund. That means that when they graduate from college there, we'll ask them to nostrify their diploma back here in our country, instead of opening their doors, we'll close their doors for a return, or in return we'll ask them for about a million and a half to two million euros to nostrify their diplomas. Surely it's not a determining factor in whether these people will return, but it's the first perception of a young man who goes abroad to school, to return to our country. It is up to us to support this change of the Law on Higher Education, in order to facilitate not only the process of nostrification, but to make it cheaper, faster and give these young people a chance, because they bring innovation, new ideas, and hence new technologies and new jobs. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this initiative is in fact one logical consequence of that public hearing we had here at the National Assembly on March 7th, which refers to the amendment of the Law on Higher Education, and in fact to giving equality and testimony to foreign schools with the testimony of domestic schools of the same kind through a detailed comparison of study programmes, acquired and requested qualifications, or, in short, the nostration of diplomas of our people studying abroad or completed doctoral studies abroad. The number of these people is very large and the number of people returning to the country would certainly be greater if this procedure were not so complicated, difficult, even expensive. Let me remind you, there are two kinds of nostrifications in our country. One is academic, for further education, the other is for employment, and that's so-called. Professional nostration degree. For the nosetriification of higher education diplomas is the responsibility of the university, or independent high school, which means that we have a large number of different classifications and structurings, as defined by the nostration of diplomas at certain universities, or universities. This process can take a very long time, after a few years, it can cost a lot. At Belgrade University, recognition of a doctoral degree costs 500 euros, foreign citizens 1,000 euros, and costs up to 2,000 euros in private somewhere. We're proposing a 60-day cut, we're proposing a certain tariff that has to do with and makes sense with the country we live in. In Croatia, for example, the price is 65 euros. Why would we pay 2,000 euros here to nostrify a diploma? On the other hand, there is another paradox, which is that the state of Serbia has sent 983 students abroad to school in the last three school years, through the Youth Fund. That means that when they graduate from college there, we'll ask them to nostrify their diploma back here in our country, instead of opening their doors, we'll close their doors for a return, or in return we'll ask them for about a million and a half to two million euros to nostrify their diplomas. Surely it's not a determining factor in whether these people will return, but it's the first perception of a young man who goes abroad to school, to return to our country. It is up to us to support this change of the Law on Higher Education, in order to facilitate not only the process of nostrification, but to make it cheaper, faster and give these young people a chance, because they bring innovation, new ideas, and hence new technologies and new jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25657	Thank you. Dear Chairman, Ministers in absentia, I don't really know how to animate you to come and answer parliamentary questions, given that we have begun to lead monologues on this issue and that we are talking to each other about issues that we should get answers from the competent ministers. In writing, I asked questions and Minister Radulovic. Since I haven't received an answer after 15 days, I'm going to try the same question this way, so I might get lucky that in any way or in any form, I get the same answer. At the end of October of the current year, the Italian company Dajtek, which was otherwise intended to produce elements for the flow of oil and oil for the purposes of the automotive industry, broke the contract, or gave up its planned investment in the Nis working zone. In that sense, I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary questions. I know he wasn't in power when this contract was concluded. At that time, the minister, Mr Dinkic, was signed exactly three years ago from the day this company gave up investment, meaning October 2010, a contract with this Italian company was signed, and in that sense it was planned to allocate about 12m euros to invest in this factory. On the other hand, 400 new workers are scheduled to be employed. The city of Nis was set aside, i.e. 2.5 ha of land. Now we have a situation where we have a semi - built facility in a work zone in Nis, which is about 8,000 m2 and that serves nothing. Nis is one of the poorest cities in southern Serbia, with more than 40,000 unemployed people and giving up such an investment for the city of Nis is a huge loss. The least we expect from Mr Radulovic is to answer whether and how is the further use of this semi-building facility planned, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, how much money from the Republika Srpska budget has been allocated to invest in this factory, which we see has ceased to exist? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25658	About the opening of the bridge, since only SNS deputies were invited... About the opening of the bridge, since only SNS deputies were invited...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25660	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for 69, against and withheld, there was no vote of 125, by 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Arms and Ammunition, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 April 2013. Does MP Srdjan Milivojevic want a word? Here you go. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for 69, against and withheld, there was no vote of 125, by 194 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Srdjan Milivojevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Arms and Ammunition, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 10 April 2013. Does MP Srdjan Milivojevic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25663	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25664	I don't know what to say. I didn't call, I'm not on the organisational committee. I don't know what to say. I didn't call, I'm not on the organisational committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25666	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is simply an incomprehensible ease with which you reject laws that are not proposed by the opposition, not by the DS, but by proposing life in this country. It is simply frantic, in the end, the bold way you ignore life in Serbia. On April 9th, there was a great tragedy in the village of Velika Ivanca near Mladenec. There were 13 people killed in a weapon that the owner had a legal license for. As DS, we immediately submitted the Bill on Arms and Ammunition Amendments on 10 April, with the requirement that every man who wants to have a weapon in Serbia must first undergo a medical examination, obtain medical assurance that he is capable of possession and handling weapons. We've also asked people who already have weapons within a year to carry out such a review, so we don't have these tragedies repeated. I don't see any reason for anyone not to vote for this preventive law. This is a law that can prevent some new tragedy in some new great Ivanca. I appeal to your conscience to accept this law, I urge you in white suits to listen to me carefully and to consider the validity of the reasons why we propose such laws. We do not do so because the congregation in a regular session could not sit down for a month because the government was unable to write the laws. This is not a law written by DS or a group of MPs. This is the law that wrote life. His necessity requires what happened in Great Ivanca. So I appeal to the ruling majority, that the next day we do not bear a heavy burden of irresponsibility on our shoulders, that you really consider and accept that we put this law on the agenda. Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is simply an incomprehensible ease with which you reject laws that are not proposed by the opposition, not by the DS, but by proposing life in this country. It is simply frantic, in the end, the bold way you ignore life in Serbia. On April 9th, there was a great tragedy in the village of Velika Ivanca near Mladenec. There were 13 people killed in a weapon that the owner had a legal license for. As DS, we immediately submitted the Bill on Arms and Ammunition Amendments on 10 April, with the requirement that every man who wants to have a weapon in Serbia must first undergo a medical examination, obtain medical assurance that he is capable of possession and handling weapons. We've also asked people who already have weapons within a year to carry out such a review, so we don't have these tragedies repeated. I don't see any reason for anyone not to vote for this preventive law. This is a law that can prevent some new tragedy in some new great Ivanca. I appeal to your conscience to accept this law, I urge you in white suits to listen to me carefully and to consider the validity of the reasons why we propose such laws. We do not do so because the congregation in a regular session could not sit down for a month because the government was unable to write the laws. This is not a law written by DS or a group of MPs. This is the law that wrote life. His necessity requires what happened in Great Ivanca. So I appeal to the ruling majority, that the next day we do not bear a heavy burden of irresponsibility on our shoulders, that you really consider and accept that we put this law on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25669	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, I refer my first question to the minister of traffic, Alexander Antic. I want to ask him what was the toll charge in July and August 2013 on the E75 highway section between Belgrade and Saturday in both directions? How much revenue was achieved on the payment ramps of Stara Paz and on the payment ramp at Sirig's? To be more specific, I'm interested in how much is it charged for all categories of vehicles on both these charging ramps during that period in dinars and euros? The second question is to ask the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic. Namely, the 2009 Law establishing the competence of the AP Vojvodina requires that the authorities of the province manage and maintain the roads of the second order on the territory of the AP Vojvodina. However, until today, the Republic authorities have not fulfilled their obligation and have not provided financial resources to ensure that the province's competences are respected, and all of this is prescribed by the law of Article 88 and implemented. Moreover, the government of the Republic of Serbia has not made a decision on how to finance these responsibilities, which were passed on by law to the AP Vojvodina. Accordingly, it would be completely irrational to set up a company, and the law provides for companies to be formed to manage and maintain the second-row routes located in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. Since no decision has been made either by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, businesses have not been established, and under the law, the province is obliged to manage and maintain these routes that are on its territory, which refers to the pathways of the second order. I want to ask if it's another obstruction of the republican organs towards the province's organs. The Autonomous Region of Vojvodina is ready to respect all the powers that have been passed on to it with pleasure, and we from LSV will have even greater satisfaction if the AP Vojvodina again has its own responsibilities, and especially its own incomes. Also, the AP Vojvodina will form a legal entity for the management of second-class state roads in the territory of the AP Vojvodina by 1 April 2014. I ask Prime Minister Dacic if and when the Republic authorities will fulfil their obligation under Article 88. The Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina and providing the necessary financial resources for the management and maintenance of second-class state roads in the territory of the AP Vojvodina?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25670	By all accounts, you have nothing to answer. By all accounts, you have nothing to answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25672	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 60, there were no, no, no, 133, of 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2013. Does Mrs. Comic want a word? Here you go. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that for 60, there were no, no, no, 133, of 193 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Gordana Komic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by the item – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 April 2013. Does Mrs. Comic want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25675	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25676	Everyone is welcome as far as the President of Parliament is concerned. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic. Everyone is welcome as far as the President of Parliament is concerned. The word has its people's ambassador, Zoran Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25678	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the 31st MP has signed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, thus giving support to our colleague, MP Gorica Mojovic, who has conducted both professional research and dialogue and talks with the competent for European integration in the Government of Serbia and many of us here, regardless of whether we belong to the ruling majority or to the opposition, in an attempt to benefit everyone, in an attempt to accept once-for-a-time the amendment when we have discussed the Law on Public Procurement, to return to the legal framework when the Law on Public Procurement is passed. It is, of course, cultural institutions and public procurement in cultural institutions, which is what we have all witnessed in recent weeks and months, that it is simply inapplicable to the Law on Public Procurement in cultural institutions. It is a statement by Minister Petkovic, which he says - that member of the law will not apply. It is not possible for the Public Procurement Administration to tell anyone, members of the law must apply, and cultural institutions are simply incompatible with the nature of artistic and cultural activities, apply any public procurement procedure in the case of selection of dramatic works for the repertoire or the scenario for filmmaking, the selection of directors, screenwriters, costumes, actors, authors, authors or book translators, the formation of exhibition exhibition programs of museums, galleries, the formation of museum and archival collections, music repertoires, ensembles, orchestras and music agencies, etc., in which case, in no letter, nor alteration or addition, we touch everyone who spends budget money, and that is quite clear to what it is, in accordance with the law, and whether money is spent. I am very sorry that there was no will to read the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Procurement which is in the procedure. I am sorry that the effort our colleague Gorica Mojovic made will not be crowned by a joint decision to discuss this at the shortest possible time, and I am most sorry that there is no tendency towards the rule of law which implies, firstly, that the legal system is applied as the Assembly voted, and secondly, it means that it is understood that when the opposition proposes something, it is not because it is the will of the opposition or it is contrary to the will of the ruling majority, but because a huge error has been observed in the law. This is a general interest. I hope you will vote, however, to discuss the amendments and additions to this law. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the 31st MP has signed the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, thus giving support to our colleague, MP Gorica Mojovic, who has conducted both professional research and dialogue and talks with the competent for European integration in the Government of Serbia and many of us here, regardless of whether we belong to the ruling majority or to the opposition, in an attempt to benefit everyone, in an attempt to accept once-for-a-time the amendment when we have discussed the Law on Public Procurement, to return to the legal framework when the Law on Public Procurement is passed. It is, of course, cultural institutions and public procurement in cultural institutions, which is what we have all witnessed in recent weeks and months, that it is simply inapplicable to the Law on Public Procurement in cultural institutions. It is a statement by Minister Petkovic, which he says - that member of the law will not apply. It is not possible for the Public Procurement Administration to tell anyone, members of the law must apply, and cultural institutions are simply incompatible with the nature of artistic and cultural activities, apply any public procurement procedure in the case of selection of dramatic works for the repertoire or the scenario for filmmaking, the selection of directors, screenwriters, costumes, actors, authors, authors or book translators, the formation of exhibition exhibition programs of museums, galleries, the formation of museum and archival collections, music repertoires, ensembles, orchestras and music agencies, etc., in which case, in no letter, nor alteration or addition, we touch everyone who spends budget money, and that is quite clear to what it is, in accordance with the law, and whether money is spent. I am very sorry that there was no will to read the amendment and addition of the Law on Public Procurement which is in the procedure. I am sorry that the effort our colleague Gorica Mojovic made will not be crowned by a joint decision to discuss this at the shortest possible time, and I am most sorry that there is no tendency towards the rule of law which implies, firstly, that the legal system is applied as the Assembly voted, and secondly, it means that it is understood that when the opposition proposes something, it is not because it is the will of the opposition or it is contrary to the will of the ruling majority, but because a huge error has been observed in the law. This is a general interest. I hope you will vote, however, to discuss the amendments and additions to this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25681	As we were able to hear and inform ourselves through the media a few days ago, Serbia is unfortunately back on the last one, and I would add to the fully deserved place when it comes to the quality of providing health services. It is not a newspaper, for the reason that the title has been given for the second year in a row, and all according to the research done for the needs of the European Parliament. It is the research that shows that Serbia has not improved by an absolute single point compared to last year's score. That is why it is also at the bottom of the scale and last place, when it comes to the quality of providing health services. It shares the last place with countries such as Latvia, Poland, Romania and Bulgaria. This last place of Serbian health is due for the following reasons: because our country's citizens are not available electronic recipes, because our citizens are waiting for more than 21 days for cancer therapy, because our citizens are waiting for more than seven days for a scan, because they are waiting for bigger operations for more than 90 days, etc. Not to mention the lack of stents, the installation of artificial hips, etc., and DHSS talked about it countless times. Now that there is already a huge death of heart attack in our country, high infant mortality, unconstitutional growth, actually rates, cancer disease, as well as many undetected cases of diabetes, the spread of a hospital infection caused by stafilococcial resistance, etc., then there is no wonder why we are exactly where we are when it comes to providing and the quality of health services. I've already mentioned all of this, but I find it appropriate to mention it once again, since I haven't received any concrete answers from the Minister of Health, to which I'm going to ask a specific question. I am particularly interested in why the health minister now wonders about the media that she does not believe in claims that Serbia is in the last place? I think that 451 point score, as far as Serbia got out of 1,000 points, should not be surprised at all, especially when it comes to the portfolio I'm talking about right now. I would ask the Ministry of Health, since I have a few questions, to give me as specific answers as possible, since my questions that I will ask are exactly the same, and in line with all that I have already stated. First, why is it not possible for patients to have access to electronic recipes, since it is stated that something like this will be done if we remember that we discussed it and that this is exactly what Minister Slavica Djukic Dejanovic was talking about when there was a set of laws on the agenda? Why wait longer than 21 days for cancer therapy, more than seven days for scans? What does this actually do in terms of the prevention of cancer, which is precisely this research done for the purposes of the European Parliament for the first time included and prevention, and what does this seem to be about reducing the cancer rate? Why isn't there an electronic appointment? The next question is: what will be done to prevent the hospital infection that is caused by straphylloccal resistance? Are health homes at this point supplied with enough tetanus vaccines, enough vaccines against little goddesses and mumps, or are we back in a situation that threatens us with the same shortages as it was in May this year? What I am particularly interested in is having Minister Slavica Djukić Dejanovic answer me – what is the actual number of patients enrolled on the waiting list for 2016? Finally, does the Minister of Health feel that Serbia's health has already been bankrupt, but no one has told us about it publicly, as we will meet very quickly below the level of African countries that are just providing health services equal to us? Finally, I will ask the question, since I have very little time, whether there are enough cytostatics at this point in the hospitals, at least those produced in the country of Serbia, as the health minister normally says, and since we have witnessed the shortage of cytostatics, such as "purinethol", or cytostatics used in treating leukemia in children, as well as "fluorourics", i.e. the cheapest and most frequently used cytostatics in the country of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25682	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia, a question for the Ministry of Finance, Mr Vujovic. We're at the end of 2014. What I'm interested in is how much did she owe us, our country, the government of DS and Mirko Cvetkovic? What loans have they taken? Under what conditions are they taken? How many next budgets for both 2015 and 2016 and for many years to come will these loans be charged? What financial institutions have taken the most important ones, for which projects? If we know that Corridor 10 is Scadar on Bojana, we know when we took and ratified loan agreements here, which were meant to be designed to build Corridor 10, and we are in 2014, when Corridor 10, unfortunately, is not yet completed, although this government has also shown great agility and the largest number of kilometers of Corridor 10 has been completed during this Government of the Republic of Serbia. Where did those funds go, if we knew that we only had meadows from Corridor 11? The expropriation is not complete, but it has therefore entered into the obligation to expropriate itself and that workers are introduced to construction sites and huge pens have been paid to both Azerbaijan and other companies that have worked, although expropriation has not been able to end physically during that period. How many pens did the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic pay for at the time? What new values did we have for those four years? What's over? I know it pisses someone off in this room, I know they'd like us to have some collective amnesia. What about public enterprises? I ask Mr Vujovic to answer how much all Serbian citizens have cost in restructuring, which due to ignorance, irresponsibility, intricacy of the former regime were just pushed into restructuring and thus their business, where they did not have to pay taxes or obligations to the state, or obligations to public enterprises, any obligation, how much did they burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, burden the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Another question, how many times has the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and DS and those who are now benefiting had to be in charge of increasing salaries in public enterprises by 68% in 2008 just to win the election? Those who had no idea, those who had no politics, those who had no face to go to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, had to pay the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to bribe them to get some votes. How much has this burdened those budgets for that year and how much has this burdened the future generations? It's one of those who's now worried about being in debt, because then they'd be serving the debts they made, and I'm asking that question because of those we had to cut our pensions by 31%, which is why we had to cut public sector wages. It's been, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have eaten the future. I had a desire to ask another question. I had a desire to ask a question that I would ask on Tuesday from the culture field, in the cinema area, in the area you've ruined, just what they're getting. They sold all the cinemas in Belgrade without asking if they would continue to work? Because some people... Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the government of the Republic of Serbia, a question for the Ministry of Finance, Mr Vujovic. We're at the end of 2014. What I'm interested in is how much did she owe us, our country, the government of DS and Mirko Cvetkovic? What loans have they taken? Under what conditions are they taken? How many next budgets for both 2015 and 2016 and for many years to come will these loans be charged? What financial institutions have taken the most important ones, for which projects? If we know that Corridor 10 is Scadar on Bojana, we know when we took and ratified loan agreements here, which were meant to be designed to build Corridor 10, and we are in 2014, when Corridor 10, unfortunately, is not yet completed, although this government has also shown great agility and the largest number of kilometers of Corridor 10 has been completed during this Government of the Republic of Serbia. Where did those funds go, if we knew that we only had meadows from Corridor 11? The expropriation is not complete, but it has therefore entered into the obligation to expropriate itself and that workers are introduced to construction sites and huge pens have been paid to both Azerbaijan and other companies that have worked, although expropriation has not been able to end physically during that period. How many pens did the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic pay for at the time? What new values did we have for those four years? What's over? I know it pisses someone off in this room, I know they'd like us to have some collective amnesia. What about public enterprises? I ask Mr Vujovic to answer how much all Serbian citizens have cost in restructuring, which due to ignorance, irresponsibility, intricacy of the former regime were just pushed into restructuring and thus their business, where they did not have to pay taxes or obligations to the state, or obligations to public enterprises, any obligation, how much did they burden the budget of the Republic of Serbia, burden the Government of the Republic of Serbia? Another question, how many times has the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic and DS and those who are now benefiting had to be in charge of increasing salaries in public enterprises by 68% in 2008 just to win the election? Those who had no idea, those who had no politics, those who had no face to go to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, had to pay the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to bribe them to get some votes. How much has this burdened those budgets for that year and how much has this burdened the future generations? It's one of those who's now worried about being in debt, because then they'd be serving the debts they made, and I'm asking that question because of those we had to cut our pensions by 31%, which is why we had to cut public sector wages. It's been, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs have eaten the future. I had a desire to ask another question. I had a desire to ask a question that I would ask on Tuesday from the culture field, in the cinema area, in the area you've ruined, just what they're getting. They sold all the cinemas in Belgrade without asking if they would continue to work? Because some people...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25684	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 65, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 128 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We're moving on to a motion to merge the debate. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: the draft Law on Railways, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the responsibilities of internal navigation and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Co-operation in the field of maritime transport; the 2nd Joint Principles on the Law on the Rights of the Patients and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions; the 3rd Joint principled Search of the Charter of the Republic of Serbia on: Proposal for a Law on the publication of Laws and Acts and Acts on the Amendments of the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the 4th Joint Single Review on the Use of a Decision on the use and Participation of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, the Charter of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union for the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union to the Republic of the European Union for the Republic of Croatia, the European Union to the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Parliament, the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament and for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council, and for the Council, and for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the Council, and for the Council for the Council, and for the Council, and for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against - one, the abstentioned did not vote 59 out of 186 MPs. He finds that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 56 out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Railways, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a bill on patients' rights, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders, which the Government has filed; 4. Proposal for a law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the MPs Aleksandar Jugovic, Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz, Žika Gojkovic and Aleksandar Čotric; 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of Liability in Internal Navigation (CLNI 2012), submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the field of maritime transport, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a decision on the use and participation of a member of the Serbian Army in the European Union military and security training mission Mali (EUTM Mali) in 2013, which was submitted by the Government; 9. Report by the Security Control Committee on the work of the Security Service for 2012, with a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Report, submitted by the Security Control Committee of the National Assembly; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices, which was submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices, which was submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party; 13. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the United Regions of Serbia; 14. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 6 and 7, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. The details of the time are in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on: draft Law on Railways, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of Liability in Internal Navigation and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Co-operation in the field of maritime transport. Does the representative of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 65, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 128 out of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. We're moving on to a motion to merge the debate. National MP Zoran Babic, pursuant to Article 92(2) of Article 157(2) and Articles 170, 192 and 193. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint principle and uniform search be carried out on: the draft Law on Railways, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the responsibilities of internal navigation and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Co-operation in the field of maritime transport; the 2nd Joint Principles on the Law on the Rights of the Patients and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions; the 3rd Joint principled Search of the Charter of the Republic of Serbia on: Proposal for a Law on the publication of Laws and Acts and Acts on the Amendments of the Laws of the Republic of the Republic of Serbia, the 4th Joint Single Review on the Use of a Decision on the use and Participation of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union, the Charter of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union for the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the European Union to the Republic of the European Union for the Republic of Croatia, the European Union to the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Union for the European Parliament, the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament and for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the Council for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council, and for the Council, and for the European Parliament for the European Parliament for the Council for the Council for the Council, and for the Council for the Council, and for the Council, and for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Council for the Does MP Zoran Babic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 126, against - one, the abstentioned did not vote 59 out of 186 MPs. He finds that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the agenda for the session of acts under emergency procedure, proposals for supplementing the agenda and a proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 128, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 56 out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law on Railways, submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a bill on patients' rights, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law on the protection of persons with mental disorders, which the Government has filed; 4. Proposal for a law on the publication of laws and other regulations and acts by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, submitted by the MPs Aleksandar Jugovic, Olgica Batic, Mirko Cikiriz, Žika Gojkovic and Aleksandar Čotric; 6. Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of Liability in Internal Navigation (CLNI 2012), submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation in the field of maritime transport, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a decision on the use and participation of a member of the Serbian Army in the European Union military and security training mission Mali (EUTM Mali) in 2013, which was submitted by the Government; 9. Report by the Security Control Committee on the work of the Security Service for 2012, with a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Report, submitted by the Security Control Committee of the National Assembly; 10. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices, which was submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices, which was submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the discharge and appointment of members and deputies of members of the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democratic Party; 13. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the United Regions of Serbia; 14. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principle and uniform search on drafts of the agenda under points 1, 6 and 7, and before the opening of the search, I remind you that, pursuant to Article 170, and in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of Members of Parliament. The details of the time are in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on: draft Law on Railways, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of Liability in Internal Navigation and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on Co-operation in the field of maritime transport. Does the representative of Proposer Milutin Mrkonjic want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25687	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Neven the Flowering. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25688	Time. Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25690	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I always feel great satisfaction and great responsibility and willingness to accept everything that you as MPs think is useful and necessary to use in the documents we are talking about today in the field of traffic with special pleasure. I'm undermining again. I'm always leaving this high house to learn something new. A lot of people here know a lot about traffic, and that's why I'd like to thank you in advance for the suggestions you're about to make. In short, I will explain all three proposals for the document. The first is the draft law on railways. The main objectives of this law are to improve the efficiency of the Republika Srpska rail system, integrate it into the transport services market and integrate Serbian rail into the EU rail system. The adoption of this bill will bring national legislation into line with EU rules, which is a key priority in the EU accession process and implementing European rules on the area of rail transport. The proposal for a railway law shall further develop the relationship between the state and its authorities and the railway companies as their responsibilities, obligations and conditions to be met by railway companies in order to carry out the work for which they are established. It is regulated to separate the railway system to the part relating to the management of railway infrastructure, the organisation and regulation of the transport of management infrastructure and to the part relating to passenger and freight transport, the railway undertaking and their operations, which means their specific financing. The creation of conditions for the emergence of several railway undertakings, which should lead to competition and increased transport quality, as well as the liberalisation of the railway market. It is also foreseen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a five-year national programme of railway infrastructure on a proposal from the Government of Serbia, which determines the state of existing infrastructure, building plans, reconstruction and maintenance of infrastructure, determines the tasks, their scope, dynamics, realisation and priorities, heights and sources of financial resources needed for the realisation of the national programme, defining the obligations of infrastructure managers, which their annual plans must comply with the national programme. The proposal for a railway law sets out more precisely the provisions defined for a public transport obligation, whose services are needed and applied in EU countries, and for reasons of general economic interest cannot currently be provided on a commercial basis. The purpose of the provisions relating to the public transport obligation is to prescribe the conduct of state authorities, AP authorities and local law enforcement authorities, on the one hand, as well as railway undertakings, on the other hand, in the field of public transport of passengers, and in order to ensure the provision of services of general interest, which are, among other things, better quality or at lower prices than those which would be possible solely on the basis of the functioning of market laws. Special attention is paid to the regulation of combined transport, where most of the transport route is carried out by rail, which, despite its importance and potentials, is largely neglected in the current Railway Act. Also, this law provides for the possibility of stimulating combined transport. This law also defines more precisely the responsibilities and tasks of the Railway Directorate, which according to European regulations and standards should be represented by the licensing body, the regulatory body and the safety body. The draft law on railways provides the basis for the initial phase of the rail system restructuring process in the Republic of Serbia. The activities are under way to restructure Serbia's Railways and, according to the plans of the Ministry of Transport, it is envisaged that the future organisational structure consists of four dependent companies within the group of companies, such as: a public railway infrastructure management company, a public transport company for public transport of passengers in rail transport and maintenance of railway vehicles in this type of transport, a public transport service company, a public transport service company in railway transport and maintenance of railway trains, vehicles in this type of transport and a company for the operation of real estate management and other property of the railways of Serbia. In this way, the organisation and functioning of subsidiaries would be consistent with the location of income, and financial and business independence would exist by segments. The process of reforms and investment activities undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia must take place synchronisedly, as it will only give the expected effects. The second document is a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the field of maritime transport. I know the question of MPs will probably be why Serbia with Cyprus? Because Cyprus is the fourth largest ship in the world, and this agreement gives our sailors a chance to engage through Cyprus and work on those ships. So the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus have not concluded an agreement on co-operation in maritime transport. Maritime transport is carried out in accordance with international conventions in the maritime areas which both countries have ratified. The conclusion of a maritime transport co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus is a new concrete contribution to creating more favourable conditions for further improving bilateral economic co-operation between the two countries. The agreement is given importance to maritime transport, especially given that the Republic of Serbia has lost its seas since the decommissioning of the Serbia-Montenegro State Community, and that it has remained as a supersergist in all international conventions in the maritime area ratified by the former state. Given that maritime transport is one of the elements in the transport and supply of goods to the Republika Srpska market and given the economic and economic value of maritime transport compared to other modes of transport, there is a need for its strengthening and co-operation in this area with the Republic of Cyprus. The third document is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the Limitation of Liability in Internal Navigation. The Institute of responsibilities of shipowners is one of the basic principles of responsibility in maritime law and inland navigation rights and is one of the most important characteristics of this branch of law. In maritime law, the shipowner was always allowed to limit his responsibility to the value of maritime property involved in the disaster. Inland navigation, attempts were made to settle the issue through interstate instruments. The draft of an instrument made up by the EU Economic Commission for Europe, however, has never come into force. On the other hand, on the River Reyna it was adopted under the auspices of the Central Committee for the Sailing of the Paradise so-called "Rajna". The 1998 Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of the responsibilities of shipowners of internal navigation. The States Parties to this Convention shall exclusively be the Rajean Middle States and that shall be Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Luxembourg. Since 1976, there has been no other attempt to adopt an appropriate international legal instrument that would uniquely regulate the Institute in the internal navigation across the European continent, the Central Commission for Navigation has launched an initiative to adopt amendments and additions to the Strasbourg Convention to extend it to the European level. Following the entry into force of the final text, a diplomatic conference in Strasbourg was scheduled for the working group of experts between 25 September and 27 September, which adopted the text of the Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of Responsibility for Internal Navigation and the signing of the final diplomatic convention. Given that the Republic of Serbia is involved in a diplomatic conference as if it also signed the final act of the diplomatic convention, a process has been launched to confirm participants in the conference the adoption of the certification law. Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I always feel great satisfaction and great responsibility and willingness to accept everything that you as MPs think is useful and necessary to use in the documents we are talking about today in the field of traffic with special pleasure. I'm undermining again. I'm always leaving this high house to learn something new. A lot of people here know a lot about traffic, and that's why I'd like to thank you in advance for the suggestions you're about to make. In short, I will explain all three proposals for the document. The first is the draft law on railways. The main objectives of this law are to improve the efficiency of the Republika Srpska rail system, integrate it into the transport services market and integrate Serbian rail into the EU rail system. The adoption of this bill will bring national legislation into line with EU rules, which is a key priority in the EU accession process and implementing European rules on the area of rail transport. The proposal for a railway law shall further develop the relationship between the state and its authorities and the railway companies as their responsibilities, obligations and conditions to be met by railway companies in order to carry out the work for which they are established. It is regulated to separate the railway system to the part relating to the management of railway infrastructure, the organisation and regulation of the transport of management infrastructure and to the part relating to passenger and freight transport, the railway undertaking and their operations, which means their specific financing. The creation of conditions for the emergence of several railway undertakings, which should lead to competition and increased transport quality, as well as the liberalisation of the railway market. It is also foreseen by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to adopt a five-year national programme of railway infrastructure on a proposal from the Government of Serbia, which determines the state of existing infrastructure, building plans, reconstruction and maintenance of infrastructure, determines the tasks, their scope, dynamics, realisation and priorities, heights and sources of financial resources needed for the realisation of the national programme, defining the obligations of infrastructure managers, which their annual plans must comply with the national programme. The proposal for a railway law sets out more precisely the provisions defined for a public transport obligation, whose services are needed and applied in EU countries, and for reasons of general economic interest cannot currently be provided on a commercial basis. The purpose of the provisions relating to the public transport obligation is to prescribe the conduct of state authorities, AP authorities and local law enforcement authorities, on the one hand, as well as railway undertakings, on the other hand, in the field of public transport of passengers, and in order to ensure the provision of services of general interest, which are, among other things, better quality or at lower prices than those which would be possible solely on the basis of the functioning of market laws. Special attention is paid to the regulation of combined transport, where most of the transport route is carried out by rail, which, despite its importance and potentials, is largely neglected in the current Railway Act. Also, this law provides for the possibility of stimulating combined transport. This law also defines more precisely the responsibilities and tasks of the Railway Directorate, which according to European regulations and standards should be represented by the licensing body, the regulatory body and the safety body. The draft law on railways provides the basis for the initial phase of the rail system restructuring process in the Republic of Serbia. The activities are under way to restructure Serbia's Railways and, according to the plans of the Ministry of Transport, it is envisaged that the future organisational structure consists of four dependent companies within the group of companies, such as: a public railway infrastructure management company, a public transport company for public transport of passengers in rail transport and maintenance of railway vehicles in this type of transport, a public transport service company, a public transport service company in railway transport and maintenance of railway trains, vehicles in this type of transport and a company for the operation of real estate management and other property of the railways of Serbia. In this way, the organisation and functioning of subsidiaries would be consistent with the location of income, and financial and business independence would exist by segments. The process of reforms and investment activities undertaken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia must take place synchronisedly, as it will only give the expected effects. The second document is a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Cyprus on co-operation in the field of maritime transport. I know the question of MPs will probably be why Serbia with Cyprus? Because Cyprus is the fourth largest ship in the world, and this agreement gives our sailors a chance to engage through Cyprus and work on those ships. So the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus have not concluded an agreement on co-operation in maritime transport. Maritime transport is carried out in accordance with international conventions in the maritime areas which both countries have ratified. The conclusion of a maritime transport co-operation agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus is a new concrete contribution to creating more favourable conditions for further improving bilateral economic co-operation between the two countries. The agreement is given importance to maritime transport, especially given that the Republic of Serbia has lost its seas since the decommissioning of the Serbia-Montenegro State Community, and that it has remained as a supersergist in all international conventions in the maritime area ratified by the former state. Given that maritime transport is one of the elements in the transport and supply of goods to the Republika Srpska market and given the economic and economic value of maritime transport compared to other modes of transport, there is a need for its strengthening and co-operation in this area with the Republic of Cyprus. The third document is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Strasbourg Convention on the Limitation of Liability in Internal Navigation. The Institute of responsibilities of shipowners is one of the basic principles of responsibility in maritime law and inland navigation rights and is one of the most important characteristics of this branch of law. In maritime law, the shipowner was always allowed to limit his responsibility to the value of maritime property involved in the disaster. Inland navigation, attempts were made to settle the issue through interstate instruments. The draft of an instrument made up by the EU Economic Commission for Europe, however, has never come into force. On the other hand, on the River Reyna it was adopted under the auspices of the Central Committee for the Sailing of the Paradise so-called "Rajna". The 1998 Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of the responsibilities of shipowners of internal navigation. The States Parties to this Convention shall exclusively be the Rajean Middle States and that shall be Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Luxembourg. Since 1976, there has been no other attempt to adopt an appropriate international legal instrument that would uniquely regulate the Institute in the internal navigation across the European continent, the Central Commission for Navigation has launched an initiative to adopt amendments and additions to the Strasbourg Convention to extend it to the European level. Following the entry into force of the final text, a diplomatic conference in Strasbourg was scheduled for the working group of experts between 25 September and 27 September, which adopted the text of the Strasbourg Convention on the Restriction of Responsibility for Internal Navigation and the signing of the final diplomatic convention. Given that the Republic of Serbia is involved in a diplomatic conference as if it also signed the final act of the diplomatic convention, a process has been launched to confirm participants in the conference the adoption of the certification law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25693	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, allow me to take advantage of the debate on the budget we are having these days in the Assembly, to ask a question and point out the problem of detachment from the budget for the education, science and technological development sector, i.e. to point out the problem of the budget structure for the education, science and technological development sector, and therefore I ask my question to the Minister of Finance, Lazar Krstic. It is our old Serbian custom to criticise everything and that nothing is wrong with us, and I certainly would not speak this way, and I will try to be constructive in asking this question, to mention that what is good with the structure of the budget for education, science and technological development, but also what could be better. As for budget allocation, it should be fair to say that education, science and technological development will receive more than 12 billion and 300 million dinars next year, which means that nothing has been taken from education, which means that we have defined ourselves not to touch where it is most sensitive and where the situation is fragile anyway. It should be honest to say that teachers, teachers, scientists, in Serbia live very modestly, that the allocations for their salaries are not at the level at which they should be singled out for those who care about our children literally. But it's a good thing they're not touched by it. On the other hand, the problem with the structure of the budget for education, science and technological development is that most of the total amount, which is 178,139,232,000 dinars, goes exclusively for wages. I say again, it's good because people are not touched by existence. It's bad that the education budget isn't developmental. There are, however, some good projects for young talent, for funding doctoral studies, but we don't have much investment in the education and science sector, which should have a country that cares about its development. Let me tell you here in front of all of you that the only investment in education and science is the way out of the cycle of poverty. My particular question to Finance Minister Lazar Krstic, who defends the budget and has our support, does not want to be ultra-critical, is when the conditions will come, given the projected economic growth, we have heard that he is probably between 1% and 3% in the coming years, for more serious investments in the education and science sector, is that going to be in two, three, four, five, six years or is that maybe not ever going to happen during our lives? It is necessary to say that the conditions in which scientists work at institutes are more than modest, that separations for material costs are more than modest, that we have a problem with elementary equipment in the entire education sector. So what I want to point out and put it as a problem that we're hopefully all going to find the answer together is that it's not enough to split the pay. That's very important, because people live on it, because their wages are modest anyway. The problem is when, as a society, all of us together, no matter who is the position, who is the opposition, who is in power, who is currently criticising it, we will find a way to invest seriously in education and science the way it was invested 30, 40, 50 years ago, when schools were raised, when colleges were built, when really society was resting on knowledge. Allow me at the end of this question to point out a firm belief that if economic growth is ever in the coming years, that a good part of it should be put into the education of science, because that's the only way to get out of the vicious cycle of poverty. At the very end of asking this question, I would quote exactly the deceased South African President Nelson Mandela, one of the greatest people who lived in our time, who said, "No state can develop unless its citizens are educated." To this I would add only – the education of the people is real politics, and everything else is makeup and cosmetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25694	... They have to go into private property and take risks, not get criminal charges, because you've sold something by thinking about your profits, not the sequel. Thank you. ... They have to go into private property and take risks, not get criminal charges, because you've sold something by thinking about your profits, not the sequel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25696	Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ( ) First came the word of Parliamentarian Balint Pastor. Here you go. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ( ) First came the word of Parliamentarian Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25699	The word has been made by MP Kenan Hajdarevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25700	The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov. The word of the messenger of the people is Mr. Alexander Jerkov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25702	Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia also referred the draft railway law to the procedure on April 1st, but it is the first time before the National Assembly that a draft law on railways is in place. You remember probably Mr. Minister that the previous debate, the principle debate on the draft law on railways, began on 7 September 2011 and then at the end of September 2011, even in December, it was impossible for the National Assembly to pass this law because we, the SVM, opposed to giving a quorum because we felt that this bill did not respect the economic interests of the AP Vojvodina. As a result, this bill was not passed, and according to our findings, this bill was the only one in the last conventions that did not receive support from the National Assembly. We are not happy about the fact that our goal was not destruction, our goal was not to defuse the adoption of the law. Our goal was to choose, in agreement with the ministry at the time, to adopt some amendments that would improve this proposal, the bill at the time. Because only a few days later, this National Assembly discussed the proposal for a public property law, and then we repeatedly said that if the Law on Railways does not enter the provision that the AP Vojvodina can be owned along the state roads of the second order and local and regional railway infrastructures on its territory, then it will not be possible by the Law on Public Property, because it is impossible, or should not be allowed for the laws of the Republic of Serbia to be in conflict with each other. In the meantime, unlike the Law on Railways, the Law on Public Property was adopted on 26 September 2011, and therefore we cannot propose the same solutions that we proposed in early September 2011, meaning, a year and a half ago. Not because we changed our minds or attitudes, not because we changed our mind, but because the Law on Public Property was adopted in the meantime and it is not possible now, or because it would not be serious to propose solutions that would be in conflict with the other law, and the Law on Public Property, unfortunately, will not be amended in the coming days. We voted against that law, and we don't think that law makes up the right framework for a given topic, but that's not the point now. In 2011, we submitted six amendments. Of these amendments, two were adopted, then by the Ministry and the National Assembly’s competent committee, and now these solutions have entered into the bill. So this bill has been changed and improved to some extent. However, this cannot mean that we are satisfied with this bill, but for the sake of truth, I must say that this bill contains in itself the possibility that the Government, i.e. the competent authorities, local self-government units and autonomous provinces may, in order to ensure the transport of general interest, establish a public transport obligation for the railway undertaking and that the means to compensate public transport obligations are provided to carriers in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina and the units of local self-government. Another segment improved the bill compared to the proposal a year and a half ago. In Article 7(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: The 2011 bill said that the management activity is carried out by a company founded by the Republic of Serbia. It was so planned and that solution was quite exclusive. According to the current draft law, the same position of Article 3(7) states that the management activity is carried out by a company of capital established and exists in accordance with a law governing the exercise of activity of general interest. It is the Law on Public Services and this means that this activity can also be carried out by legal persons whose founders are next to the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, cities, municipalities, meaning local self-government. The question is – on what terms it is possible. We think that we should standard these conditions differently and we have submitted amendments to those solutions that I will talk about a little later. Before I move on to concrete amendments, I want to say that in some way history repeats itself. We're discussing a bill that's 95% the same from a year and a half ago. Let me share with you the thought of what I look forward to what MPs from the parliamentary groups who were part of the ruling majority in the previous session will say. These MPs told us a year and a half ago that we had proposed something that was against the constitution, which is impossible, which is not complete, and now that I've looked at this debate and looked at what the other MPs have suggested, then I saw that these solutions from their amendments are very similar to our amendments. This means that there are MPs and parliamentary groups who act in one way when they are in power and in another when they are in opposition. This is not news, and it is not a newspaper in the political life of the Republic of Serbia, but I think it is very interesting and I am truly pleased that we will have the support of some parliamentary groups on this occasion for our proposed solutions that did not stand with us a year and a half ago. But that doesn't mean that and I want to say that we're going to be able to do the same thing we did a year and a half ago, and now it's quite clear that this law will be passed, but I still hope that some of our amendments will pass. If that is the case, then it is possible that we will support this bill, but if it remains unchanged, then we will remain in our positions from a year and a half ago. I want to talk about the fact that it's very bad that one atmosphere was created a year ago and a half ago and now, which is talking about there being MPs, above all from the AP Vojvodina who want to tear apart "the railroad of Serbia", who want to demonstrate the railways in Vojvodina, who want to take some parts of the railway infrastructure, etc. Of course, it's neither intention nor reality, and I think it's unnecessary for anyone to swear allegiance here, etc. We simply believe that the Republic of Serbia has shown in recent years that it can manage rail infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because the Republic has not done so in the best way, to formulate this thought and therefore we believe that it is necessary to give both local self-government and above all, the AP Vojvodina to manage part of the railway infrastructure on its territory. We think that we should allow the AP Vojvodina to compete with various European and other funds, we should allow the AP to invest in that infrastructure and it will be in the interest of the entire Republic of Serbia, not only of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, because, as it has repeatedly pointed out, rail and railway infrastructure is a unique system. This does not mean that it should fail uniquely, it means that it should allow both local communities and the AP Vojvodina to do something, that parts of the railway infrastructure would be in better shape than in other areas, if it has knowledge, if it has the ability, if there is money, projects, then it should simply be done and I think that they are pointless statements of type, the railway is a small state, and in the state it has to function as a single system. Yes, it should function as a unique system, but I don't think the focus should be on a single system, but on words, it works. I don't think the rail infrastructure works in the best way possible, to use the easiest possible formulation again. Even more interesting statements were that a year and a half ago, the essence was that Vojvodina was isolated from Serbia. You, Mr. Minister, only a month ago told RTS that the secession of Serbia is unacceptable and that you were absolutely against it and that this is why our amendments were not accepted. We've known each other for many years, and I don't think you're right when you talk about our intention being to separate Vojvodina from Serbia or that we were working to tear Serbia apart. That doesn't even match the content of our amendments. Once again, we want the railway infrastructure on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia to be at the level of the 20th century, the second half of the 20th century. You know very well that this is not the case, and if the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia gives certain powers to the AP of Vojvodina, I think that when we ask that Vojvodina enjoys these responsibilities, or if it exercises those responsibilities, then it is not the secession of Serbia and that is not the case. Article 87. The constitution says: "physical and legal persons can acquire individual rights on certain goods in general use, under conditions and in the manner provided for by law". This translated into Serbian means that if the Law on Railways provides, then the AP Vojvodina, units of local self-government can manage part of the railway infrastructure. This does not mean that the railway infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia would cease to be a single system. The railways won't be any different, the trains won't stand, the passengers won't have to change the train when they get to the AP Vojvodina territory and that's funny stuff, because it's not about that, and nobody's thought about it. It wasn't about that either, it wasn't about a year and a half ago to form a public enterprise called the Railways of Vojvodina. It's not the key. It's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that the AP Vojvodina can have certain competences related to the management of railway infrastructure and that it is not happening what is happening these weeks, that the province's Department of Economy, gets funds in one international competition, it's about the IPA funds, and that it's been waiting for months for one signature from your ministry, Mr Minister, that it can't be the whole project of the province, from a dead spot, because it's waiting for a term for a meeting between the people of the province's Secretariat, whose jurisdiction includes the affairs of traffic, and your ministry. It is a concrete project, a revitalisation of infrastructure, railways, between Subotica and Segedin, and it is of international importance. Of course, we are not looking, and I am stressing again, the railway corridors, it is not realistic, it should be in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, but if there is one such project and if it is the institution of this project of the provincial Secretariat, then it is unacceptable for me that there is no communication between the province and the republican level, and we have been stressing for months that when it comes to the autonomy of the Vojvodina, we should not be dealing with abstract matters, but simply, people from the regional secretariats and the republican ministries, we should sit down for the same table and start solving specific problems. I suppose this project falls under Mr. Lassica's jurisdiction, so I hope that Mr. Lassica will find time to deal with this issue, so that these things don't last for weeks and months. A year and a half ago, I talked a lot about the history of railway infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Let me just get a few data. The first railway on the territory of today's AP Vojvodina was built in 1869. It was a railroad between Saturday and Somboro, actually Segedina, Subotica and Somboro. In Vojvodina, the railroad arrived only 29 years after England. In the early 20th century, Vojvodina had the densest network of railways in Europe. The so-called "Vojvodjanski almanah" was issued in Novi Sad in 1924, with the help of the most famous Serbian experts of the period being given a full and full statistical review of Vojvodina by each settlement on 460 sides. In the Vojvodina area of 1923, the railway network was 1700km long. This is unfortunately not improved even now in 2013. Now there are 1735 kilometers of track in Vojvodina. Of which 382 kilometers was owned by the state. There are also railways in Vojvodina today that were last restored during the reign of Francis Joseph. I asked you, Mr. Minister, last time, do you know when King Francis Joseph died? It was 1916, and since then we have been waiting for the reconstruction of certain railways in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in vain. The speed of trains does not reach the speed of those of the late 19th century. I could name that much more data. As far as today's situation, from 1735km of track in Vojvodina, there are 237km of local railways that are not in use, 347km of local railways on which very low traffic takes place, close to 200km of decommissioned railways, 445km of regional rails on which there is very little axle pressure, and traffic is carried out with reduced intensity. I think that as far as today's situation is concerned, then partners need to be found for it and in the state of Serbia and beyond its borders, what works in the countries of Europe should be applied. For example, all forms of property on railway infrastructure are possible in Austria, there are several operators in Italy, in the Czech Republic national and part of the regional railways are owned by the state, and part of the regionals are privatised, in France the same decentralisation has been carried out according to the regional principle, etc. Please, Mr. Minister, that very carefully... (Chairman (Wesna Kovac): Time. ) I conclude that you will carefully study our amendments and we will discuss concrete solutions in detail when the National Assembly will discuss the draft law in particular. Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Serbia also referred the draft railway law to the procedure on April 1st, but it is the first time before the National Assembly that a draft law on railways is in place. You remember probably Mr. Minister that the previous debate, the principle debate on the draft law on railways, began on 7 September 2011 and then at the end of September 2011, even in December, it was impossible for the National Assembly to pass this law because we, the SVM, opposed to giving a quorum because we felt that this bill did not respect the economic interests of the AP Vojvodina. As a result, this bill was not passed, and according to our findings, this bill was the only one in the last conventions that did not receive support from the National Assembly. We are not happy about the fact that our goal was not destruction, our goal was not to defuse the adoption of the law. Our goal was to choose, in agreement with the ministry at the time, to adopt some amendments that would improve this proposal, the bill at the time. Because only a few days later, this National Assembly discussed the proposal for a public property law, and then we repeatedly said that if the Law on Railways does not enter the provision that the AP Vojvodina can be owned along the state roads of the second order and local and regional railway infrastructures on its territory, then it will not be possible by the Law on Public Property, because it is impossible, or should not be allowed for the laws of the Republic of Serbia to be in conflict with each other. In the meantime, unlike the Law on Railways, the Law on Public Property was adopted on 26 September 2011, and therefore we cannot propose the same solutions that we proposed in early September 2011, meaning, a year and a half ago. Not because we changed our minds or attitudes, not because we changed our mind, but because the Law on Public Property was adopted in the meantime and it is not possible now, or because it would not be serious to propose solutions that would be in conflict with the other law, and the Law on Public Property, unfortunately, will not be amended in the coming days. We voted against that law, and we don't think that law makes up the right framework for a given topic, but that's not the point now. In 2011, we submitted six amendments. Of these amendments, two were adopted, then by the Ministry and the National Assembly’s competent committee, and now these solutions have entered into the bill. So this bill has been changed and improved to some extent. However, this cannot mean that we are satisfied with this bill, but for the sake of truth, I must say that this bill contains in itself the possibility that the Government, i.e. the competent authorities, local self-government units and autonomous provinces may, in order to ensure the transport of general interest, establish a public transport obligation for the railway undertaking and that the means to compensate public transport obligations are provided to carriers in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the AP Vojvodina and the units of local self-government. Another segment improved the bill compared to the proposal a year and a half ago. In Article 7(3), point (a) is replaced by the following: The 2011 bill said that the management activity is carried out by a company founded by the Republic of Serbia. It was so planned and that solution was quite exclusive. According to the current draft law, the same position of Article 3(7) states that the management activity is carried out by a company of capital established and exists in accordance with a law governing the exercise of activity of general interest. It is the Law on Public Services and this means that this activity can also be carried out by legal persons whose founders are next to the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province, cities, municipalities, meaning local self-government. The question is – on what terms it is possible. We think that we should standard these conditions differently and we have submitted amendments to those solutions that I will talk about a little later. Before I move on to concrete amendments, I want to say that in some way history repeats itself. We're discussing a bill that's 95% the same from a year and a half ago. Let me share with you the thought of what I look forward to what MPs from the parliamentary groups who were part of the ruling majority in the previous session will say. These MPs told us a year and a half ago that we had proposed something that was against the constitution, which is impossible, which is not complete, and now that I've looked at this debate and looked at what the other MPs have suggested, then I saw that these solutions from their amendments are very similar to our amendments. This means that there are MPs and parliamentary groups who act in one way when they are in power and in another when they are in opposition. This is not news, and it is not a newspaper in the political life of the Republic of Serbia, but I think it is very interesting and I am truly pleased that we will have the support of some parliamentary groups on this occasion for our proposed solutions that did not stand with us a year and a half ago. But that doesn't mean that and I want to say that we're going to be able to do the same thing we did a year and a half ago, and now it's quite clear that this law will be passed, but I still hope that some of our amendments will pass. If that is the case, then it is possible that we will support this bill, but if it remains unchanged, then we will remain in our positions from a year and a half ago. I want to talk about the fact that it's very bad that one atmosphere was created a year ago and a half ago and now, which is talking about there being MPs, above all from the AP Vojvodina who want to tear apart "the railroad of Serbia", who want to demonstrate the railways in Vojvodina, who want to take some parts of the railway infrastructure, etc. Of course, it's neither intention nor reality, and I think it's unnecessary for anyone to swear allegiance here, etc. We simply believe that the Republic of Serbia has shown in recent years that it can manage rail infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, because the Republic has not done so in the best way, to formulate this thought and therefore we believe that it is necessary to give both local self-government and above all, the AP Vojvodina to manage part of the railway infrastructure on its territory. We think that we should allow the AP Vojvodina to compete with various European and other funds, we should allow the AP to invest in that infrastructure and it will be in the interest of the entire Republic of Serbia, not only of the citizens of the AP Vojvodina, because, as it has repeatedly pointed out, rail and railway infrastructure is a unique system. This does not mean that it should fail uniquely, it means that it should allow both local communities and the AP Vojvodina to do something, that parts of the railway infrastructure would be in better shape than in other areas, if it has knowledge, if it has the ability, if there is money, projects, then it should simply be done and I think that they are pointless statements of type, the railway is a small state, and in the state it has to function as a single system. Yes, it should function as a unique system, but I don't think the focus should be on a single system, but on words, it works. I don't think the rail infrastructure works in the best way possible, to use the easiest possible formulation again. Even more interesting statements were that a year and a half ago, the essence was that Vojvodina was isolated from Serbia. You, Mr. Minister, only a month ago told RTS that the secession of Serbia is unacceptable and that you were absolutely against it and that this is why our amendments were not accepted. We've known each other for many years, and I don't think you're right when you talk about our intention being to separate Vojvodina from Serbia or that we were working to tear Serbia apart. That doesn't even match the content of our amendments. Once again, we want the railway infrastructure on the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia to be at the level of the 20th century, the second half of the 20th century. You know very well that this is not the case, and if the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia gives certain powers to the AP of Vojvodina, I think that when we ask that Vojvodina enjoys these responsibilities, or if it exercises those responsibilities, then it is not the secession of Serbia and that is not the case. Article 87. The constitution says: "physical and legal persons can acquire individual rights on certain goods in general use, under conditions and in the manner provided for by law". This translated into Serbian means that if the Law on Railways provides, then the AP Vojvodina, units of local self-government can manage part of the railway infrastructure. This does not mean that the railway infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia would cease to be a single system. The railways won't be any different, the trains won't stand, the passengers won't have to change the train when they get to the AP Vojvodina territory and that's funny stuff, because it's not about that, and nobody's thought about it. It wasn't about that either, it wasn't about a year and a half ago to form a public enterprise called the Railways of Vojvodina. It's not the key. It's not the most important thing. The most important thing is that the AP Vojvodina can have certain competences related to the management of railway infrastructure and that it is not happening what is happening these weeks, that the province's Department of Economy, gets funds in one international competition, it's about the IPA funds, and that it's been waiting for months for one signature from your ministry, Mr Minister, that it can't be the whole project of the province, from a dead spot, because it's waiting for a term for a meeting between the people of the province's Secretariat, whose jurisdiction includes the affairs of traffic, and your ministry. It is a concrete project, a revitalisation of infrastructure, railways, between Subotica and Segedin, and it is of international importance. Of course, we are not looking, and I am stressing again, the railway corridors, it is not realistic, it should be in the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia, but if there is one such project and if it is the institution of this project of the provincial Secretariat, then it is unacceptable for me that there is no communication between the province and the republican level, and we have been stressing for months that when it comes to the autonomy of the Vojvodina, we should not be dealing with abstract matters, but simply, people from the regional secretariats and the republican ministries, we should sit down for the same table and start solving specific problems. I suppose this project falls under Mr. Lassica's jurisdiction, so I hope that Mr. Lassica will find time to deal with this issue, so that these things don't last for weeks and months. A year and a half ago, I talked a lot about the history of railway infrastructure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Let me just get a few data. The first railway on the territory of today's AP Vojvodina was built in 1869. It was a railroad between Saturday and Somboro, actually Segedina, Subotica and Somboro. In Vojvodina, the railroad arrived only 29 years after England. In the early 20th century, Vojvodina had the densest network of railways in Europe. The so-called "Vojvodjanski almanah" was issued in Novi Sad in 1924, with the help of the most famous Serbian experts of the period being given a full and full statistical review of Vojvodina by each settlement on 460 sides. In the Vojvodina area of 1923, the railway network was 1700km long. This is unfortunately not improved even now in 2013. Now there are 1735 kilometers of track in Vojvodina. Of which 382 kilometers was owned by the state. There are also railways in Vojvodina today that were last restored during the reign of Francis Joseph. I asked you, Mr. Minister, last time, do you know when King Francis Joseph died? It was 1916, and since then we have been waiting for the reconstruction of certain railways in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, in vain. The speed of trains does not reach the speed of those of the late 19th century. I could name that much more data. As far as today's situation, from 1735km of track in Vojvodina, there are 237km of local railways that are not in use, 347km of local railways on which very low traffic takes place, close to 200km of decommissioned railways, 445km of regional rails on which there is very little axle pressure, and traffic is carried out with reduced intensity. I think that as far as today's situation is concerned, then partners need to be found for it and in the state of Serbia and beyond its borders, what works in the countries of Europe should be applied. For example, all forms of property on railway infrastructure are possible in Austria, there are several operators in Italy, in the Czech Republic national and part of the regional railways are owned by the state, and part of the regionals are privatised, in France the same decentralisation has been carried out according to the regional principle, etc. Please, Mr. Minister, that very carefully... (Chairman (Wesna Kovac): Time. ) I conclude that you will carefully study our amendments and we will discuss concrete solutions in detail when the National Assembly will discuss the draft law in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25705	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the LDP has a few questions, and the first group of questions is about Mr Radulovic's economy minister, about what he's been talking about for several weeks, I can say freely since he became minister. It is a group of laws that should represent a reformal deviation in relation to everything we've had so far, which primarily refers to the new labour law, the privatisation law, the bankruptcy law and the planning and construction law. We had information from the public, however, from Mr Radulovic, that these laws would be following the laws of the budget we started talking about, and then there was a misunderstanding between the ministry, or the government on the one hand and all those interested in the process of passing this law. A few weeks ago, the minister said these laws would be in assembly procedure by the end of this year. Obviously that's not gonna happen. We ask a simple question – when will your laws enter the congregation procedure? What's most important, the content of these laws, LDP has clear views when we talk about these laws. The LDP labour law should be similar to the law passed by Djindjic's government in 2001. When we talk about the Privatisation Act, Minister Radulovic cannot talk about the adoption of a new law on privatisation, in the atmosphere when he calls the whole privatisation a robbery privatisation. What is most important is the Law on Planning and Construction is a law that must enable the construction industry to be launched. We're doing it today with this law we don't have. Also, when we talk about laws and what is necessary to adopt Serbia in an economic sense from a dead end, we should also talk about legislation that regulates the pension fund and retire. Yesterday, Minister Krstic said in one half-rate that we are expected to have a reform of the pension system, i.e. an increase in the age of retirement on the one hand, and on the other hand the introduction of so-called bonuses, i.e. a penalty for temporary retirement. I will remind you and Serbian citizens that five years ago, the LDP proposed that early retirement be at 1% per year of work, which is necessary until the full amount necessary for someone to retire. Today, the International Monetary Fund and the Fiscal Council suggest that the bonus is 6%. This shows how much it costs the state of Serbia, or its citizens, what LDP is talking about in time, and then we were declared traitors, as someone who wants to destroy pensioners, and how does that eventually result in an increase, or that charge? I will also remind all of us that today is December 10th Human Rights Day, the day that the LDP marks as the day of its party. This is what we mark at a time when, I say freely, we treat asylum seekers in a shameful way in Serbia. This day should be a day when at least for a moment the whole society should face what we have done to those people who have found some refuge here in Serbia. I hope that those scenes we've seen from Obrenovac and other cities in Serbia will no longer be repeated, and I can only say that I am proud of my Sandzak countrymen and that everyone in Serbia should be proud of what they did afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25706	Thank you, Madam President. I think what I'm going to ask is somehow on the trail of what Mr. Babic is asking for the previous period, so I hope that we can get all the information on all the borrowings. My question is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not sure if we should ask the prime minister, since he's already tried several times to avoid answering that question, so let's make it the Ministry of Finance or Business, so let's be the Government, so let the ministries who think they're able to answer that question give an answer, and I think it's very important that we find out. In fact, yesterday or two days ago, I am not sure, the proposal for a law on the takeover of the company "Air Serbia" a.d. Belgrade's obligations towards legal and physical persons on the basis of the services provided by goods and the conversion of these obligations to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia has arrived to us. The team will also be working on budget rebalances by the end of the year. Among other things, because under the bill of this law, which this assembly majority obviously intends to adopt, the planned rebalancing of the occasion, and we will be obliged, when the law is passed, to pay half of this new debt by 31 December 2014, up to one half of the total amount of the obligation set out in Article 2 of this Act, and the other half by 31 March 2015. My question is, where did we get the funds? We are obliged here to return, as much as I had the opportunity to see and add, although it is in various currencies, about 200 million euros. Namely, we will be obliged to repay the debts of "Air Serbia" in the middle course of the National Bank of Serbia in the following currencies: 9,349,334,841 dinar, 23,540,644 euros, 74,730,704 US dollars, 527,327 dirhams, that is about 125,000 euros, 2,611 Australian dollars, 185,151 converted stamps, 472 Bulgarian leva, $3, 0110 Canadian dollars, 361.228 Swiss francs, 736,164 Danish crowns, 415,451 British pound, 461, 322 Macedonian money, 1,631 Norwegian crowns, 1,305.943 Russian rubles, 1,193,632 Swedish crowns, 117,935 reality, this is a means in Saudi Arabia, and 7,697 Tunisia dinars and 614 Turkish liras. My question is how many of us are going to end this contract with Ethyhad? We have concluded in this assembly, in fact the Assembly has confirmed a proposal for a co-operation agreement with the United Arab Emirates. We are deeply convinced that he is anti-constitutional. Since that job, citizens have seen the sale of a hotel in Kopalnik for 600 euros per square... What are the MPs doing? I really can't talk. (Bouting in O.R.) Is today a working day in the congregation? What's this about? My question is, are we finally going to pay for that contract... President, I can't talk. Thank you, Madam President. I think what I'm going to ask is somehow on the trail of what Mr. Babic is asking for the previous period, so I hope that we can get all the information on all the borrowings. My question is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm not sure if we should ask the prime minister, since he's already tried several times to avoid answering that question, so let's make it the Ministry of Finance or Business, so let's be the Government, so let the ministries who think they're able to answer that question give an answer, and I think it's very important that we find out. In fact, yesterday or two days ago, I am not sure, the proposal for a law on the takeover of the company "Air Serbia" a.d. Belgrade's obligations towards legal and physical persons on the basis of the services provided by goods and the conversion of these obligations to the public debt of the Republic of Serbia has arrived to us. The team will also be working on budget rebalances by the end of the year. Among other things, because under the bill of this law, which this assembly majority obviously intends to adopt, the planned rebalancing of the occasion, and we will be obliged, when the law is passed, to pay half of this new debt by 31 December 2014, up to one half of the total amount of the obligation set out in Article 2 of this Act, and the other half by 31 March 2015. My question is, where did we get the funds? We are obliged here to return, as much as I had the opportunity to see and add, although it is in various currencies, about 200 million euros. Namely, we will be obliged to repay the debts of "Air Serbia" in the middle course of the National Bank of Serbia in the following currencies: 9,349,334,841 dinar, 23,540,644 euros, 74,730,704 US dollars, 527,327 dirhams, that is about 125,000 euros, 2,611 Australian dollars, 185,151 converted stamps, 472 Bulgarian leva, $3, 0110 Canadian dollars, 361.228 Swiss francs, 736,164 Danish crowns, 415,451 British pound, 461, 322 Macedonian money, 1,631 Norwegian crowns, 1,305.943 Russian rubles, 1,193,632 Swedish crowns, 117,935 reality, this is a means in Saudi Arabia, and 7,697 Tunisia dinars and 614 Turkish liras. My question is how many of us are going to end this contract with Ethyhad? We have concluded in this assembly, in fact the Assembly has confirmed a proposal for a co-operation agreement with the United Arab Emirates. We are deeply convinced that he is anti-constitutional. Since that job, citizens have seen the sale of a hotel in Kopalnik for 600 euros per square... What are the MPs doing? I really can't talk. (Bouting in O.R.) Is today a working day in the congregation? What's this about? My question is, are we finally going to pay for that contract... President, I can't talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25708	Thank you. The word has Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go. Thank you. The word has Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25711	Dear People's MPs, I just need to make a point. According to the Rules of Procedure, independent MPs do not have the right to ask questions. I've let it go, and this time I'm going to end it, but I'm asking you to have an understanding in that sense that someone doesn't post an injury to the Rules of Procedure afterwards. This is not enough for the Rules of Procedure to be regulated and I use the analogy referred to in Article 97. That's what I do. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25712	I ask the messengers to be quiet, hard to work with. Thank you very much. I ask the messengers to be quiet, hard to work with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25714	In principle, when I defend any document here in the Assembly, I listen to all MPs and then answer. But since I have so much political experience to realize that Mr. Pastor is one of the few who will be against this law, not in general, I want to answer him immediately, a young colleague, a wonderful young man, with whom I've worked very well, about some of the things that are mentioned here. First of all, traffic, and that's my general lifestyle, doesn't take the line. That's why I've had a lot of political problems. I've got them today. There's no boundaries. We today, in the conditions in which we live as a country going to the EU, try in every way to reduce those problems we have at our border crossings by uniting all the jobs that are done on the border, so trains and trucks can pass through our country faster, in order to maintain our course and direction of victory over Corridor 4. It's the one that goes through Romania and Bulgaria. The other thing, I never talked about that, it's possible that you found some of my statement somewhere in the rip-off, I am in that sense Yugoslav and I don't hide it, absolutely, and a Yugoslav, but I never talked about that because of the amendment in the last session that you've endured, you're tearing Serbia, ever. Those amendments had a good side, and we'll probably have some of them, if you've put in now, and we'll adopt. I'm just saying, even today, when we talk about the railway arm of Corridor 10 towards Budapest, we are still negotiating this very job, that Vojvodina itself, or any region in Serbia, has no chance of doing these jobs, there is no. Don't make us go crazy. Of course, this law provides a lot of opportunities, Mr. Pastor, for local self-government to be involved, of course, in agreement with the railway and with the basic development strategy, but I repeat once again, we are negotiating with the Hungarians today, and negotiations are being continued tomorrow to end the arm from Belgrade to Budapest in record time, and that the second track in Vojvodina, there it is. At the very end of the line, my approach to our politicizing the Vojvodina problem has shown Corridor 10 on the road. First we did Corridor 10 on the road, what do you think it was easy to convince southern Serbia, east of Serbia to go north first? It's not. But, of course, there are some other advantages, geography, conditions, of course a better standard of citizens and better maintenance of roads and railways in Vojvodina was. I'm sorry, one more thing to tell you, it's Mr. Angelkovic, the recent and current chairman of the Railway Management Board, I never agreed that any railway in Vojvodina was abolished or that Austro-Hungarian knew what it was, and today and this information you gave is absolutely right, none of these tracks are useless, we just need to get them in a state that they can live and work. I repeat, the law has several good solutions, I'll probably talk about it when I make your amendments, but I'd like to discuss it more in detail when I talk about the amendments. Thank you. In principle, when I defend any document here in the Assembly, I listen to all MPs and then answer. But since I have so much political experience to realize that Mr. Pastor is one of the few who will be against this law, not in general, I want to answer him immediately, a young colleague, a wonderful young man, with whom I've worked very well, about some of the things that are mentioned here. First of all, traffic, and that's my general lifestyle, doesn't take the line. That's why I've had a lot of political problems. I've got them today. There's no boundaries. We today, in the conditions in which we live as a country going to the EU, try in every way to reduce those problems we have at our border crossings by uniting all the jobs that are done on the border, so trains and trucks can pass through our country faster, in order to maintain our course and direction of victory over Corridor 4. It's the one that goes through Romania and Bulgaria. The other thing, I never talked about that, it's possible that you found some of my statement somewhere in the rip-off, I am in that sense Yugoslav and I don't hide it, absolutely, and a Yugoslav, but I never talked about that because of the amendment in the last session that you've endured, you're tearing Serbia, ever. Those amendments had a good side, and we'll probably have some of them, if you've put in now, and we'll adopt. I'm just saying, even today, when we talk about the railway arm of Corridor 10 towards Budapest, we are still negotiating this very job, that Vojvodina itself, or any region in Serbia, has no chance of doing these jobs, there is no. Don't make us go crazy. Of course, this law provides a lot of opportunities, Mr. Pastor, for local self-government to be involved, of course, in agreement with the railway and with the basic development strategy, but I repeat once again, we are negotiating with the Hungarians today, and negotiations are being continued tomorrow to end the arm from Belgrade to Budapest in record time, and that the second track in Vojvodina, there it is. At the very end of the line, my approach to our politicizing the Vojvodina problem has shown Corridor 10 on the road. First we did Corridor 10 on the road, what do you think it was easy to convince southern Serbia, east of Serbia to go north first? It's not. But, of course, there are some other advantages, geography, conditions, of course a better standard of citizens and better maintenance of roads and railways in Vojvodina was. I'm sorry, one more thing to tell you, it's Mr. Angelkovic, the recent and current chairman of the Railway Management Board, I never agreed that any railway in Vojvodina was abolished or that Austro-Hungarian knew what it was, and today and this information you gave is absolutely right, none of these tracks are useless, we just need to get them in a state that they can live and work. I repeat, the law has several good solutions, I'll probably talk about it when I make your amendments, but I'd like to discuss it more in detail when I talk about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25717	Thank you. That wasn't a problem so far, no one's advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but here's to make it up to you. In the introduction to my parliamentary question, I will have to commend the government. It's hard for me, but I'm gonna have to. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' silence a while ago when Russian Ambassador Cepurin undiplomatically attacked another country on our country's territory was a scandal. If today's visit to Serbia, Mil Djukanovic, after 10 years, at least some answer to the non-diplomatic outburst of the Russian ambassador, I am pleased. I believe that this was not an intention and that the visit was previously agreed, but in any case it can be understood as some answer to what the Russian ambassador said a while ago about Montenegro and its desire to join NATO. It's an introduction and rematch for letting me ask a parliamentary question. My parliamentary question I refer to the Minister of Energy, Mrs Mihajlovic, and it is not a question of who the minister who is working against Serbia's interest is, I expect the question from the prime minister when he reads the diplomatic mail. The construction of South Stream has started, there is also a South Stream firm and a recent mention of the Russian ambassador says the South Stream will cost 1.9 billion euros through Serbia. In a bid of 1.5 billion, over 1.6 billion, we finally reached 1.9 billion. Half, 49% is our obligation and it is clear that this will be paid off as the Russian ambassador informs us, not our government, of transit taxis that will be collected in Serbia's territory. This means that that argument five years ago when it was lobbying for an energy agreement with Russia, that we will be killed by money for transit taxis, obviously, for at least years or decades now, is not standing because the transit fee will be collected by a Russian partner and thereby repay the loan he will give us, as the Russian ambassador says - will be so favourable, fingers to lick. What is happening is very untransparent and therefore I ask Minister Mihajlovic two questions. First, where is it and where can you see the South Stream project with the specification? I'm thinking of a detailed specification of how much a meter of pipe costs, construction works, how much it costs to lay down pipelines in Vojvodina, on a plain, as in eastern Serbia through the mountains, to see that it's worth and it's going to cost 1.9 billion, not, say, 1.7 billion. I think in a situation where government officials tell us that the country is in front of bankruptcy when salaries are cut to professors and doctors, up there 100 or 200 million is really not a joke. We just have a word and a story that it'll cost so much. There are people who are professional, they'd like to see this project. It is impossible that it is only between Bajatovic and his fellow director at the company's "South Stream", and that later as a state we will provide guarantees for the payment of the loan, and the loan will be paid off from transit fees, and transit fees, prices and charges will be made by a company registered in Switzerland. So none of what you were saying, you who advocated this five years ago, will be true. So the first question is – where is this detailed project to see that it costs 1.9 billion? We can't trust anyone. We can't trust our mothers. How much does it cost? What's the estimate that the annual transit taxis are going to be, so with that in terms of the interest capital, and how many decades until we get the first money from transit taxis? That's two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25718	It's not that hard. It's impossible anymore. My question to the government of the Republic of Serbia is how much will Serbia end up costing a contract with Etyhad? Total savings from the pay cuts to the educators... It's not that hard. It's impossible anymore. My question to the government of the Republic of Serbia is how much will Serbia end up costing a contract with Etyhad? Total savings from the pay cuts to the educators...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25720	Thank you. Mr. Milovan Markovic was in the system. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Thank you. Mr. Milovan Markovic was in the system. Do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25723	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25724	Time. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mirjana Dragas, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Mladen Grujic, Momo Colaković and Miroljub Stankovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the sixth item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Slobodan Homen, Snezana Malović, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Neđo Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Gordana Čomić and Borislav Stefanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. Time. Anybody else answer for a word? (No) I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Mirjana Dragas, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic, Mladen Grujic, Momo Colaković and Miroljub Stankovic. We continue to work and move on to a search in detail on the sixth item of the agenda. You have received amendments submitted by MPs: Slobodan Homen, Snezana Malović, Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Neđo Jovanovic, Vesna Martinović, Gordana Čomić and Borislav Stefanovic. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. Does anyone want a word? (Alexandra Jerkov, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure.) ) The word is Mr. Alexander Jerkov, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25726	Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, the law that is before us is certainly of paramount importance, as stated in the explanation for improving all normative definitions related to raising efficiency in rail transport and in this public sector. The Serbian Railways Action Society, which is not unknown, faces a number of problems, and they are not all about the law, but the existing law does have some shortcomings, and precisely in these key objectives that we should leave behind as the implementation of the new law, it is unconcerned. I don't think that the law itself will solve the biggest number of problems that exist in this public sector and in rail transport, but it will certainly remove some obstacles that exist today, and also the ministry and management of the AD "Serb railways" and the Serbian Parliament itself, to continue to restructure the one within the action society itself, to provide exactly what the objectives of this law are and what are the interests of the Serbian state, and that is above all to raise the efficiency of this traffic system, the training of the "Serb Railway" for open competition in the future, and in any case, what is most important, the integration of the "Serb Railway" and the railway of Serbia into the railway network, in an explanation of the EU, I would say, and this part of Europe, before all this region and in a wider sense, and the EU. Of course, the ministry that is responsible for this sector and in the previous period has made efforts, and it makes them and now I welcome it, that it is just going in this direction. Mr. Minister, you have made a great deal of effort to show not only for the sake of Southernity, but for the interest of the development of rail traffic in Corridor 10, that cooperation with other railway administrations that are on this corridor and on this direction, we are establishing one joint venture. Many did not understand that this attempt has only an economic character. There were various comments. I sincerely hope they were above all due to a lack of understanding, not from some bad intentions. It remains as something that is a new offer in the transport of goods on rail corridors throughout our country. I would not like us to concentrate just on Corridor 10, and in that case we will become transit railways and provide services in the future, which is not so far away, total liberalisation of rail traffic, first in the region and then in Europe and in general, and in this sense only provide services to trains that come and go through Serbia. These are the fears of employees today at the Railways of Serbia, that incomparably fewer of those, above all, professional people, executives, will care for their jobs or lose their jobs, which is neither good at all, nor is the goal of this ministry nor those who run this public sector. Of course, competitiveness is something that will raise the quality of services and of carriers and goods and passengers today at the "Serb Railway" Action Society and in the future, as you have pointed out, I want to support, that the future organisation scheme will involve control society and three or four dependent societies besides existing subsidiaries and thus really separate, which is also the intensity of this law and one of the most important of its quality, infrastructure manager, fully independent of the impact, so if you want the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself, which is the founder and manager of this public enterprise, and that is the public resource, but if we want to provide conditions for one quality and impartial competitiveness and quality raising, then the infrastructure manager, which is the founder and manager of this law, which is the public resource, and if we want to provide conditions for one of its own quality and private customers to be able to be able to provide, in particular, in particular, with the most important, to provide for all of our customers, to be able to provide the most reliable and private customers, to provide their customers with the goods, which are, the most reliable, the most reliable, to the most of which are, the most of their customers, who, the most---. No, on the contrary, those who have sufficient means of driving know that they are organising this job should be encouraged to be more efficient, rational and not to worry about their representation on a single free market. This is for public transport or for the transport of passengers one specific topic to be dealt with in the future primarily from the position of the ministry in a very careful way. Of course, there are not enough passengers on our trains today and this reduces revenues, and the costs are almost fixed or fully fixed when you organize one departure of the train to any destination, whether it will drive this or that number of passengers. This only measures the total income, from ticket sales, but not the costs related to the staff serving that train and to the destination of the costs to the destinations that we are talking about. It's not the only reason our tracks aren't fast enough or our trains aren't high enough. I hope that this will be changed in the future, too, because we are talking about large investments in the purchase of new vehicles and loans and European banks and some governments, above all the Government of the Russian Federation. Then we will again create preconditions that we can offer a quality service, a more comfortable service to those who want to use train transport, of course, with respect for the timetable, which is perhaps the most important fact, more important than the fact that train transport is not expensive or that ticket payments are very low. All of this will be a future operator in competition with potentially private operators who, according to the law we are talking about today, can, if they get a vehicle, get a license and a traffic safety certificate to carry out transport. Of course they won't be able to compete with the economic price of tickets, but they will make contracts with local self-governments, with the province, with the Republic and, of course, important competition in the goods transport market. I don't think the existing capacities of the Serbian Railways Action Society in the transport of passengers can be competitive, on the contrary, but they are. The obligation of the future infrastructure manager, the company to be managed, is complete railways and facilities and organise traffic for users of these facilities in the transport of goods and passengers. It'll be a very slippery terrain. I say so because on the one hand we will have contracts resulting from the withdrawal of funds from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, without which there is no maintenance of infrastructure, promotions and traffic organisation, and whether on the other hand they will be able to meet their commitments to operators who also have obligations to their clients. There's no alternative to this organization. It is the only possible chance for the "Serbian Railways" to become a more efficient, more quality and competitive enterprise than they are today. This will stop us from running social policy in the public sector, first of all in "The Railways of Serbia. All parts of the company will be on the infrastructure manager market. Of course, there will be no competition, but it will have contractual obligations towards the restoring ministry, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia as founder. I have high hopes in the national railway infrastructure programme, which is foreseen by this law, which is adopted for five years and which provides for all elements related to infrastructure, from recording the situation of existing infrastructures to short-term, medium-term and long-term plans and, of course, the annual reporting of infrastructure managers with major obligations towards the ministry that entrusted him with this type of business. What do I see as a great quality of moving on to one of these organizations of the Serbian Railway Action Society that stems from this law? First of all, abandoning one impression that railways are a cost. This is not the case in any country in Europe or in the world. Railways and investment in railway infrastructure and in the development of rail transport is development. That's what Minister Mrkonjic repeated several times, and that is how it really is. No state has been able to develop its railway infrastructure at some enviable level without major investment. It's a prestigious thing, it's a state resource, and we don't have any alternative and we don't have to deal with checking calculations where cheaper transport is, whether in road traffic, goods transport or railways. Of course, in these conditions, when the state builds and supports roads and only on first-class highways is charged by the road, more efficiently, faster and cheaper in road transport. European countries facing the problem of suffocating goods and the non-organic character of road transport, impose a commitment and grant subsidies for the transport of goods by rail. The state of Switzerland is not a good example because it is far from us. She had a referendum on the matter – is it the obligation of those who transport goods to destinations where there is a rail traffic, to transport their containers by rail and to take over terminals at the destinations to which they are referred? Of course it's so organized. We're relatively far from it today, but I welcome the law's intensities to ensure the possibility of developing combined transport. I know that there's been an analysis done at the ministry in that direction, and I'm sure we'll make a certain shift in that regard. We no longer need to talk about the future if we are able to restructure the company itself in a decent short time and form a national programme of railway infrastructure and perhaps in the next financial year, but the slowness is our virtue, but let it be in some of the coming budget years. What is today called subsidies and are going to pay off profits in Serbia's Railways to be fully clear contractually defined out of the budget. Whether it will be more or less in the first year is difficult to assess. But not to make it clear that Serbia's railway cost is no longer clear to the budget or to someone taking from the budget, but to be investing from the budget in the development of an important resource that has now been neglected decades ago due to insufficient investment and maintenance of infrastructure. We don't have a choice about whether we're going to build new railways, whether we're going to rebuild existing railways, there's no one in this room or anywhere where we're going to suggest that, as the minister said, we cut the tracks, we leave Corridor 10, we put the ramps on. I'm talking about pointless decisions on our border, to say that the train can get here, and there's no railroad, that's never going to happen. According to this, we have to act quickly, now we have no legal obstacles, we have never had them before. We always face the problem of insufficient financial resources, but the national railway infrastructure programme foresees this as an obligation to be defined. I'm sure it'll be used. I am talking affirmatively about this law, because I really think that it is the interest of each individual to edit this area and to affirm rail traffic as a priority, primarily in the transport of goods and as very suitable in the transport of passengers despite the fact that it is in some aspects more expensive than road traffic, but in all European countries it is the first source because of its ecological characteristics and because of the shift of this large number of transport vehicles from blocked roads, because we do not have enough capacity on the roads. I think we'll go that way. The MP group Together for Serbia will vote in favour of the law. I don't think he's going to suffer any dramatic changes through the amendments. I have seen some amendments, and they are only one technical improvement in the current text, so I think that this way we will again underline, create preconditions to put order in rail traffic and to restructure the company in the direction in which the intensity and this law is, to make it efficient and able to integrate into the network of European railways, one day finally into the EU. Thank you. The President-in-Office, Mr Minister, respected colleagues and colleagues, the law that is before us is certainly of paramount importance, as stated in the explanation for improving all normative definitions related to raising efficiency in rail transport and in this public sector. The Serbian Railways Action Society, which is not unknown, faces a number of problems, and they are not all about the law, but the existing law does have some shortcomings, and precisely in these key objectives that we should leave behind as the implementation of the new law, it is unconcerned. I don't think that the law itself will solve the biggest number of problems that exist in this public sector and in rail transport, but it will certainly remove some obstacles that exist today, and also the ministry and management of the AD "Serb railways" and the Serbian Parliament itself, to continue to restructure the one within the action society itself, to provide exactly what the objectives of this law are and what are the interests of the Serbian state, and that is above all to raise the efficiency of this traffic system, the training of the "Serb Railway" for open competition in the future, and in any case, what is most important, the integration of the "Serb Railway" and the railway of Serbia into the railway network, in an explanation of the EU, I would say, and this part of Europe, before all this region and in a wider sense, and the EU. Of course, the ministry that is responsible for this sector and in the previous period has made efforts, and it makes them and now I welcome it, that it is just going in this direction. Mr. Minister, you have made a great deal of effort to show not only for the sake of Southernity, but for the interest of the development of rail traffic in Corridor 10, that cooperation with other railway administrations that are on this corridor and on this direction, we are establishing one joint venture. Many did not understand that this attempt has only an economic character. There were various comments. I sincerely hope they were above all due to a lack of understanding, not from some bad intentions. It remains as something that is a new offer in the transport of goods on rail corridors throughout our country. I would not like us to concentrate just on Corridor 10, and in that case we will become transit railways and provide services in the future, which is not so far away, total liberalisation of rail traffic, first in the region and then in Europe and in general, and in this sense only provide services to trains that come and go through Serbia. These are the fears of employees today at the Railways of Serbia, that incomparably fewer of those, above all, professional people, executives, will care for their jobs or lose their jobs, which is neither good at all, nor is the goal of this ministry nor those who run this public sector. Of course, competitiveness is something that will raise the quality of services and of carriers and goods and passengers today at the "Serb Railway" Action Society and in the future, as you have pointed out, I want to support, that the future organisation scheme will involve control society and three or four dependent societies besides existing subsidiaries and thus really separate, which is also the intensity of this law and one of the most important of its quality, infrastructure manager, fully independent of the impact, so if you want the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia itself, which is the founder and manager of this public enterprise, and that is the public resource, but if we want to provide conditions for one quality and impartial competitiveness and quality raising, then the infrastructure manager, which is the founder and manager of this law, which is the public resource, and if we want to provide conditions for one of its own quality and private customers to be able to be able to provide, in particular, in particular, with the most important, to provide for all of our customers, to be able to provide the most reliable and private customers, to provide their customers with the goods, which are, the most reliable, the most reliable, to the most of which are, the most of their customers, who, the most---. No, on the contrary, those who have sufficient means of driving know that they are organising this job should be encouraged to be more efficient, rational and not to worry about their representation on a single free market. This is for public transport or for the transport of passengers one specific topic to be dealt with in the future primarily from the position of the ministry in a very careful way. Of course, there are not enough passengers on our trains today and this reduces revenues, and the costs are almost fixed or fully fixed when you organize one departure of the train to any destination, whether it will drive this or that number of passengers. This only measures the total income, from ticket sales, but not the costs related to the staff serving that train and to the destination of the costs to the destinations that we are talking about. It's not the only reason our tracks aren't fast enough or our trains aren't high enough. I hope that this will be changed in the future, too, because we are talking about large investments in the purchase of new vehicles and loans and European banks and some governments, above all the Government of the Russian Federation. Then we will again create preconditions that we can offer a quality service, a more comfortable service to those who want to use train transport, of course, with respect for the timetable, which is perhaps the most important fact, more important than the fact that train transport is not expensive or that ticket payments are very low. All of this will be a future operator in competition with potentially private operators who, according to the law we are talking about today, can, if they get a vehicle, get a license and a traffic safety certificate to carry out transport. Of course they won't be able to compete with the economic price of tickets, but they will make contracts with local self-governments, with the province, with the Republic and, of course, important competition in the goods transport market. I don't think the existing capacities of the Serbian Railways Action Society in the transport of passengers can be competitive, on the contrary, but they are. The obligation of the future infrastructure manager, the company to be managed, is complete railways and facilities and organise traffic for users of these facilities in the transport of goods and passengers. It'll be a very slippery terrain. I say so because on the one hand we will have contracts resulting from the withdrawal of funds from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, without which there is no maintenance of infrastructure, promotions and traffic organisation, and whether on the other hand they will be able to meet their commitments to operators who also have obligations to their clients. There's no alternative to this organization. It is the only possible chance for the "Serbian Railways" to become a more efficient, more quality and competitive enterprise than they are today. This will stop us from running social policy in the public sector, first of all in "The Railways of Serbia. All parts of the company will be on the infrastructure manager market. Of course, there will be no competition, but it will have contractual obligations towards the restoring ministry, i.e. the government of the Republic of Serbia as founder. I have high hopes in the national railway infrastructure programme, which is foreseen by this law, which is adopted for five years and which provides for all elements related to infrastructure, from recording the situation of existing infrastructures to short-term, medium-term and long-term plans and, of course, the annual reporting of infrastructure managers with major obligations towards the ministry that entrusted him with this type of business. What do I see as a great quality of moving on to one of these organizations of the Serbian Railway Action Society that stems from this law? First of all, abandoning one impression that railways are a cost. This is not the case in any country in Europe or in the world. Railways and investment in railway infrastructure and in the development of rail transport is development. That's what Minister Mrkonjic repeated several times, and that is how it really is. No state has been able to develop its railway infrastructure at some enviable level without major investment. It's a prestigious thing, it's a state resource, and we don't have any alternative and we don't have to deal with checking calculations where cheaper transport is, whether in road traffic, goods transport or railways. Of course, in these conditions, when the state builds and supports roads and only on first-class highways is charged by the road, more efficiently, faster and cheaper in road transport. European countries facing the problem of suffocating goods and the non-organic character of road transport, impose a commitment and grant subsidies for the transport of goods by rail. The state of Switzerland is not a good example because it is far from us. She had a referendum on the matter – is it the obligation of those who transport goods to destinations where there is a rail traffic, to transport their containers by rail and to take over terminals at the destinations to which they are referred? Of course it's so organized. We're relatively far from it today, but I welcome the law's intensities to ensure the possibility of developing combined transport. I know that there's been an analysis done at the ministry in that direction, and I'm sure we'll make a certain shift in that regard. We no longer need to talk about the future if we are able to restructure the company itself in a decent short time and form a national programme of railway infrastructure and perhaps in the next financial year, but the slowness is our virtue, but let it be in some of the coming budget years. What is today called subsidies and are going to pay off profits in Serbia's Railways to be fully clear contractually defined out of the budget. Whether it will be more or less in the first year is difficult to assess. But not to make it clear that Serbia's railway cost is no longer clear to the budget or to someone taking from the budget, but to be investing from the budget in the development of an important resource that has now been neglected decades ago due to insufficient investment and maintenance of infrastructure. We don't have a choice about whether we're going to build new railways, whether we're going to rebuild existing railways, there's no one in this room or anywhere where we're going to suggest that, as the minister said, we cut the tracks, we leave Corridor 10, we put the ramps on. I'm talking about pointless decisions on our border, to say that the train can get here, and there's no railroad, that's never going to happen. According to this, we have to act quickly, now we have no legal obstacles, we have never had them before. We always face the problem of insufficient financial resources, but the national railway infrastructure programme foresees this as an obligation to be defined. I'm sure it'll be used. I am talking affirmatively about this law, because I really think that it is the interest of each individual to edit this area and to affirm rail traffic as a priority, primarily in the transport of goods and as very suitable in the transport of passengers despite the fact that it is in some aspects more expensive than road traffic, but in all European countries it is the first source because of its ecological characteristics and because of the shift of this large number of transport vehicles from blocked roads, because we do not have enough capacity on the roads. I think we'll go that way. The MP group Together for Serbia will vote in favour of the law. I don't think he's going to suffer any dramatic changes through the amendments. I have seen some amendments, and they are only one technical improvement in the current text, so I think that this way we will again underline, create preconditions to put order in rail traffic and to restructure the company in the direction in which the intensity and this law is, to make it efficient and able to integrate into the network of European railways, one day finally into the EU.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25729	Thank you. Last week, the Serbian Constitutional Court decided that individual provisions of the AP Vojvodina Statute were not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and set a six-month deadline for the Statute to comply with the constitution. The Constitutional Court's decision must be respected and it is necessary to find a way to bring the Statute of Vojvodina into line with the Constitution. Both the Republic and the province administration must cooperate on that path. So today I ask the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Mr. Stefanovic and the President of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, Mr. Pastor - what will he do and what measures will he take to respect the six-month deadline given by the Constitutional Court so that the citizens of Vojvodina will not suffer? The Vojvodina can no longer be dealt with only by way of party and republican interests, or when we are warned by the Constitutional Court, but by the Vojvodina we must deal with it in a state-of-the-art way, because otherwise we will make a desert of Serbia's treasure. Already now, Vojvodina is an undeveloped region with unemployment above and an average salary below the republican average of agriculture which is an untapped resource. What also worries is that Vojvodina is centralized and unevenly developed inside itself. The united regions of Serbia support Vojvodina's autonomy, but multi-layer autonomy, which implies the formation of Srema, Banat and Backa as special areas and the establishment of a special status for the town of Novi Sad, which would allow Vojvodina to develop evenly and that all Vojvodina citizens feel the benefits of autonomy. This means that without additional election costs from the existing MPs elected to the Vojvodina Assembly, councils or district assemblies are formed for each area of Srem, Banat and Backo, who would then continue to choose the so-called local government, which would be entrusted with certain competences, primarily from areas of economic development, infrastructure, environmental, culture and sport. The united regions of Serbia support the decentralisation of Vojvodina with equal chances for all cities and municipalities. When the Vojvodjans ask – where is our money, they should not only look at Belgrade, but also look at Novi Sad. At that time, we probably wouldn't have come into a situation to separate 300 million dinars from the province's budget, and only 200 million for the balanced regional development of Vojvodina or just 160 million for the employment policy. Are mosquitoes in Vojvodina twice the unemployment problem? It is also obvious that the time has matured for a change in the constitution that would allow for Serbia's political regionalisation. Then the Vojvodina, but the rest of Serbia, we wouldn't be dealing with ad hoc. Constitutional changes are necessary in order for everyone in Serbia to get a chance to form their regions and that the concept of regionalisation and decentralisation could be implemented in practice. The United Regions of Serbia are looking for a change in the constitution that should make Serbia a country of seven regions with three levels of government, republican, province and local. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25730	Thank you, Madam President. I assume you know it's about article 27, which I'm advertising. Please take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and provide us with conditions for work. Just before I spoke, I couldn't hear myself. Members of the SNS, they've been quieted down for a while because they got out of the O.R., but, please, we can't do this. It's my only request and intervention, and I think you see it, too, that it can't be done in these conditions. You've warned them, obviously unsuccessfully, and if today is a really rough day, let it be said that we're not even trying to do it. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. ) Thank you, Madam President. I assume you know it's about article 27, which I'm advertising. Please take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure and provide us with conditions for work. Just before I spoke, I couldn't hear myself. Members of the SNS, they've been quieted down for a while because they got out of the O.R., but, please, we can't do this. It's my only request and intervention, and I think you see it, too, that it can't be done in these conditions. You've warned them, obviously unsuccessfully, and if today is a really rough day, let it be said that we're not even trying to do it. Thank you. (Janko Veselinović, from the city: According to the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25732	The word has Minister Mrkonjic. The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25735	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25736	Can I answer that, or do you want it summed up? Article 27, that the President takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, convenes the session, represents the National Assembly, the Presidency and other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. I think I've done everything in my power to make the atmosphere in parliament appropriate and that we can work. It's quiet now. I didn't even react when some MPs were making a very loud throw at the question of MP Zoran Babic, because I don't think I should act like I'm in school and say something to grown-ups all the time. But you're right, there was a lot of noise. We'll continue to work in a perfectly appropriate tone. Today is, of course, a work day. We have a law of certain holidays when parliament does not work, or when we agree to have an unworkable day. If you want, we'll vote? (No) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go. Can I answer that, or do you want it summed up? Article 27, that the President takes care of the application of this Rules of Procedure, convenes the session, represents the National Assembly, the Presidency and other tasks in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure. I think I've done everything in my power to make the atmosphere in parliament appropriate and that we can work. It's quiet now. I didn't even react when some MPs were making a very loud throw at the question of MP Zoran Babic, because I don't think I should act like I'm in school and say something to grown-ups all the time. But you're right, there was a lot of noise. We'll continue to work in a perfectly appropriate tone. Today is, of course, a work day. We have a law of certain holidays when parliament does not work, or when we agree to have an unworkable day. If you want, we'll vote? (No) The word has a National MP, Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25738	I thank you, and I forgot to say when I said that this is the chairman of the Railway Management Board, Mr. Angelkovic, that Mica Markovic, was also the director-general of the Railways yesterday. I thank him for everything he did with me and Angelkovic. Micho, thank you. I thank you, and I forgot to say when I said that this is the chairman of the Railway Management Board, Mr. Angelkovic, that Mica Markovic, was also the director-general of the Railways yesterday. I thank him for everything he did with me and Angelkovic. Micho, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25741	Dear People's MPs, on this occasion, I would ask the Ministry of Justice and State Administration or the Ministry of Regional Development and Local Self-Government or, once and for all, the Ministry, because I really don't know who the subject I'm going to talk about is, and that's the problem of the Ministry Act, of course, not these topics. The question is, when are these ministries or one of them, and the government going to adopt this, do and draft a bill on the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina or a bill or a proposal to amend the jurisdiction law? The Serbian Constitutional Court made its decision on the issue, launched by the DSS in this parliament four years ago. That decision was made a year and a half ago, in May 2012, and that decision repealed some provisions, but not just some but significant, essential provisions of that law and a large number of those provisions, 22. Since then, no one has found fit to pass the bill. Meanwhile, during these years and a half, Vojvodina has functioned according to its Statute, which, by the very fact that the provisions of the law were put out of force, was unconstitutional until the moment when it could indeed be said, on the basis of the new Constitutional Court's decision the other day, that the Statute was also unconstitutional. You notice how time is stalled and how time is bought and that nothing is done on this important plan for Serbia's state organisation. We simply have an empty walk legal for the functioning of the Vojvodina and, at this point, a great responsibility is borne by the Government because it did not adopt in time the bill that I am talking about and that I am asking it to give us an answer – will it bring it and when it will bring it? If the government had done its part of the job in good time and given parliament the proposal, that parliament had adopted the proposal after the discussion, the amendments, etc., it is likely that the Constitutional Court would have had more reasons to put out of force certain provisions of the Vojvodina Statute and likely that the Statute would have been faster to comply with the law. The whole time, nothing was actually done, and that is the problem of the Duke today that the Constitution is not being applied. In Vojvodina, in fact, there is a rather perverse constitutional logic in Serbia that says that the Constitution should actually be constitutional, not constitutional, and by that logic, it is actually looking for a change in the Constitution and it is easier to change the Constitution than to apply it. It is the perversion of political and constitutional life in Serbia. A few years ago, four years ago, the procedure was unconstitutional. If you remember, the Law of Jurisdiction was first adopted in the District Parliament, and then the Law of Jurisdiction was adopted on the basis of that Statute. The constitutional law states otherwise – first, the Law of Jurisdiction and then the Statute under the law. But even now, after four years, that's not how it's done, and that's my question for the government -- why didn't the government do their part of the job? The Constitutional Court did its part of the job in slow motion after four years, but come on, he did something. In this decision on the constitutionality of the Statute, however, one member said the decision would apply in six months, i.e. apply in six months unless the government does something in accordance with the Constitution. These six months are again buying time because the discussion of the Constitution of Serbia is slowly insinuating and only insisting that the Constitution be changed, and then the Constitutional Court, since it is loyal to the government, leaves a maximum period, which otherwise allows it, for six months, for that Statute to be agreed or, if you want, to change the Constitution. Now the forces that are for the change of the Constitution have a chance to force this debate into public life. You have one sporting discipline that has developed heavily in our political life, which is to throw bets on the Serbian Constitution, and no one sees whether laws and statutes should be changed according to those provisions as required by the Constitution, and those provisions are not specific provisions of Serbia and its political life and its state, but are in fact the way acts on territorial units are adopted in all states that have a court of national territorial units, from federal units, regions, etc. Only in Serbia goes wrong, both four years ago and now. That is why this is a question and we would like to ask a quick answer, so that we can continue in Parliament to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25742	Dear President, I'm advocating Article 87 and 107. In fact, Article 87 refers to the working time of the National Assembly, and Article 107 speaks of the reputation of the National Assembly. In article 87, which refers to working hours, there is no talk of excursions during working hours, nor is it said that some MPs give the quorum and then go to some party events afterwards. I ask you, President, did the other parliamentary groups, the heads of Parliament's groups, receive an invitation to open a bridge today opened by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of China, which is the special merit of the SNS MPs to be met by buses outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and will not participate in this debate and of whose money have these buses been paid? They knew about the bridge four days ago, until no one knew, and now we're going to sit here and talk to ourselves about accepting our amendments, while they're going on a trip. What kind of way is that? Where does the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that MPs can go to party events or excursions during working hours? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: What party event? It is a party because only one party goes. Dear President, I'm advocating Article 87 and 107. In fact, Article 87 refers to the working time of the National Assembly, and Article 107 speaks of the reputation of the National Assembly. In article 87, which refers to working hours, there is no talk of excursions during working hours, nor is it said that some MPs give the quorum and then go to some party events afterwards. I ask you, President, did the other parliamentary groups, the heads of Parliament's groups, receive an invitation to open a bridge today opened by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of China, which is the special merit of the SNS MPs to be met by buses outside the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and will not participate in this debate and of whose money have these buses been paid? They knew about the bridge four days ago, until no one knew, and now we're going to sit here and talk to ourselves about accepting our amendments, while they're going on a trip. What kind of way is that? Where does the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly say that MPs can go to party events or excursions during working hours? (Vladimir Djukanovic, from the post: What party event? It is a party because only one party goes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25744	The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer. The word has been made by MP Ivan Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25747	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Bojana Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25748	Please, I'll answer. Please, I'll answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25750	The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, esteemed colleagues, MPs and MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SDPS parliamentary group supports the proposal for a Law on Railways because it believes that the solutions proposed are to the greatest extent possible, and that some parts of the professional public may be removed by amendments. In my presentation, I will not deal with all the many problems facing Serbia's railways, namely the state that covers their losses, but also citizens who are victims of unquality rail transport and who ultimately pay for all the wrong decisions made in the past in the rail transport sector. Regardless of the fact that each citizen of Serbia agrees with this claim, this is also the SDPS parliamentary group, and this problem is extremely serious, it is not the subject of today's debate, so I will leave it for another occasion, for example when some future budgets are passed in which we will be able to see the effects of this legal solution or of some colleagues who find it appropriate to talk about it today, which is their legitimate right. It is not rare to hear calls on Serbia's railways, as they call them the biggest losers in Serbia, while ignoring the fact that the system of rail traffic is systematic, unintended, but recklessly destroyed for years, so I would say even for decades, not entirely by market business, which has led it to the inability to generate free reproduction, about new investments that I don't even speak. When so unilaterally speaking about railways, and we know that it is much easier to criticise than something concrete to offer and do, it is too often forgotten that the comparative advantages of rail transport than other modes of transport, so I would remind fellow MPs and citizens that the railway has a far better option and greater efficiency of mass transport and goods and passengers than any other kind of traffic. The only one that is comparable is water transport in terms of price, but not in terms of speed. The railway has a far lower consumption of power than the mass of transport, or cargo, of about 40% of the consumption compared to road traffic, and a very approximate consumption of power from water traffic. There are far less negative environmental consequences. The cost of environmental traffic damage in the EU is about 4.6% of national income, of which 92% of road traffic, 7% is air traffic, and only 1.7% of rail traffic. It has far greater security than other traffic types compared to the number of people killed in traffic accidents for the same amount of transport. Between rail and road traffic is 1:100, and the damage is 1:3,500. Finally, the possibility of traffic taking place in almost all meteorological conditions, then the comfort of travel. Let's compare air transport and rail transport where there's no air transport between city centers, and there's a railroad. In airline transport it is impossible to use today inevitable electronic devices such as computers or mobile phones, and in railways it is. Not to mention the absence of waiting for boarding and landing which in the case of air traffic is something that spends a considerable amount of time, and that is not available in rail traffic. When we add to this the high speeds of transport that exist today, unfortunately not in all countries but in some EU countries, we see how many comparative advantages railways have on other modes of transport. Taking into account all the above, it is not difficult to conclude what kind of attention rail transport should have in every country that is strategically thinking and taking care of itself and its future. I believe that a good number of listed virtues of rail transport do not fully apply in our terms, but it is not a good part and a product of bad policymaking in recent decades. The mistakes of the past cannot be corrected overnight, but in order to correct them at all, it is necessary to take the first step, which is to create assumptions for the improvement of the Serbian Railway system. It is only possible to do so by passing a law that would respect the reality in which we live and in the given conditions to try to use the best applicable world practices, stressing the applicable ones, make all benefits of rail transport available to Serbian citizens. The bill of law that lies before us should not be seen as a final solution to all problems, far from it. He should be a good basis for an upgrade that could, unfortunately, at least on the mid-term, not so quickly, make the desired results. Unfortunately, in our old custom, with reforms and the passing of this law, we are quite late. For example, the deadline for the adoption of the reformed Railway Act expired approximately two years ago, according to the EU SAA and according to the information I received. To avoid misunderstandings, delay in the adoption of this law is not just a matter of EU association. It is much more a question of sustainability of the rail system in Serbia and the rest, not to say, survival in the European rail system. I doubt even the EU's most bitter opponents want the railway trip to any foreign country to become a nightmare for Serbian citizens. So the quickest adoption of this law is imperative. What are the most important innovations this law brings? The extension of the Railway Directorate's responsibilities, the adoption of a five-year national railway infrastructure programme, which will be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of Serbia, whose annual implementation will be supervised by the Government and reported to the Assembly, the removal in practice of the observed shortcomings of the previous legislative solution, the modernisation of the law and its adaptation to new EU directives and the removal of the provisions relating to the safety of rail traffic in the safety and interoperability of railways law. Although the Railways Directorate was established in 2004 and has since implemented its law of intended competence, it has shown in practice that its role should be far more significant, and this expects, for the truth, for the sake of will, that is to say, Brussels, and the EU. The existence and expansion of the Railway Directorate's intelligence is not something to worry about, because it is no new political trick for the recruitment of party personnel, but our obligation in the EU accession process. I will remind you that the Railways Directorate is the heiress of the Yugoslav Railways Community, so the bodies that existed 30 years before it, and for the sake of the unbelief of Tom, I will also say that, for example, The newly-roasted EU member Croatia has two agencies that are doing the same job at the moment, which will be entrusted to the Railway Directorate after the adoption of this law. So it's more economical than it's wasteful. In the absence of time, I will not enter all the new responsibilities of the Directorate, but instead, I will try to show the importance of expanding its powers on two illustrating examples. The first is that as of June 1st 2013, railway cars from Serbia will be able to cross Serbia's border with any other country only if they get a registration authorised by the Railways Directorate and with its new powers. So if we were not to pass this law by an emergency procedure, we would be put into a situation in order to have our cars stopped at borders on 1 June 2013. Another thing that is very important amongst the many new powers received by the Railways Directorate is that by adopting all the necessary standards and obtaining all the necessary certifications, we are opening new perspectives for our car industry, and we know in what state our car industry is and what problems we had in the previous period, especially some related to privatisation in this industry, which was once one of the feathers of our industry. So we are opening up new perspectives for it by being able to produce and remount cars for European railways, which is not possible at the moment. As far as the national railway infrastructure programme is concerned, it is a planned act of national importance in the railway area. It was about time, I dare say, that the solution to the problem of Serbian railways is approached strategically and that they are looking for systemic permanent solutions, instead of partial solutions, that is to do systematic, not ad hoc fire-fighting, and then by pushing the remaining unresolved problems under the carpet. A new concept of a railway organisation in Serbia, based on its division on two separate continents in rail traffic, should also be achieved, according to the minister, more efficient management of the railway system, but I would say a higher degree of transparency in the business of the Serbian Railways, both of which were not minor in the previous period. The obligation to separate infrastructures from the transport of goods and services, however, existed in the previous 2005 law, but was not fully defined, nor had an imperative tone. Now this is more precise and far more strictly defined, thus finally opening up the space for so much needed to introduce competition in railway transport. The expected effects of this measure are to reduce budget burdens based on the subsidisation of Serbia's Railways, but also to increase the quality of rail transport. In the future, all users, and by this I mean the Serbian Railways, but also some new operators, will pay for access to rail infrastructure, by subsidising the operation of the infrastructure manager, so the difference between the charges they have and the costs they have, which will probably be, even in some starting period, which can take longer, because its economic position, therefore, is unsustainable at this point. On the other hand, the public railway undertaking will no longer be obliged to retain all non-resistable lines, except those for which the state or body of local self-government is particularly interested, in which case they will be obliged to cover business losses on those lines. So we have an economic and marketable far better orderly situation. This will create the basis that, with the inevitable and urgent rationalisation of the business even if the domestic railway carrier, I am only talking about the work of the Serbian Railways, which, after its detachment, so to speak, is said to be different – spin of, exclusively by transporting passengers and goods, becoming a viable company in some future period. As for non-covered lines, they will be given a chance by some new interested operators, who may be able to deliver positive results with better business models. Of course, their right is not only limited to those lines that are not interested in Serbia's Railways, but also for other lines, which creates practically one system in which competition will strengthen, which will eventually create conditions for increasing the quality of rail traffic in Serbia. When we add to that the fact that, as I understand it, the Russian 800 million dollar loan is on the door, intended to improve the rail infrastructure in the most part, one part is for the purchase, as I understand it, twenty locomotives, but it is certainly a smaller part of that 800 million, and I would say that this is one of the first, if not the first serious investment in railways in the last few decades, then there is a reason for optimism, provided that the future rail system, or the entire rail traffic, is handled, as our people say, domestically. As for the provisions relating to the safety of rail transport, which have been removed from the Law on Railways in the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways, which is still, unfortunately, not brought in, they almost create, I apologize for having to use perhaps too strong words, but I have received such information from some parts of the professional public, some kind of legal vacuum or interregne. The law which now regulates that area, which is thirty years old, has become obsolete in a partial conflict, has given me such information, with solutions from the new Railways Act, and the most urgent adoption of the law on safety and interoperability of railways is imposed as an imperative. To conclude, this Law on Railways is in this form which today is ahead of us cannot be considered an ideal solution, if such a solution even exists, I would dare even say long-term. I don't want this to cause me to panic with the people that there's going to be some new laws being passed all the time. Not to be misunderstood doesn't mean this bill is bad. On the contrary, the proposal is good because it represents a compromise of best European practices and our current real opportunities and capacities. The best confirmation of this is the positive criticism he received from the EU, regardless of what does not contain everything that is from us at the moment, I would say, unreally requested. Just copying an EU directive or a law from some of its members would be a dead letter on paper, as the Serbian Railway, as it is at the moment, is unable to face all the challenges that such legal solutions would put before it. This does not mean that to improve this legal solution through some future changes and additions, when conditions are acquired for such a thing, we should not work in the future. The first step is to adopt as soon as possible the safety and interoperability law of the railways, which, according to my information, as well as the minister can confirm whether they are correct, is expected within the next few months. To repeat, the SDPS parliamentary group considers the proposal for a railway law to be an improvement in earlier solutions, and will support it in this regard. Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable ministers, esteemed colleagues, MPs and MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the SDPS parliamentary group supports the proposal for a Law on Railways because it believes that the solutions proposed are to the greatest extent possible, and that some parts of the professional public may be removed by amendments. In my presentation, I will not deal with all the many problems facing Serbia's railways, namely the state that covers their losses, but also citizens who are victims of unquality rail transport and who ultimately pay for all the wrong decisions made in the past in the rail transport sector. Regardless of the fact that each citizen of Serbia agrees with this claim, this is also the SDPS parliamentary group, and this problem is extremely serious, it is not the subject of today's debate, so I will leave it for another occasion, for example when some future budgets are passed in which we will be able to see the effects of this legal solution or of some colleagues who find it appropriate to talk about it today, which is their legitimate right. It is not rare to hear calls on Serbia's railways, as they call them the biggest losers in Serbia, while ignoring the fact that the system of rail traffic is systematic, unintended, but recklessly destroyed for years, so I would say even for decades, not entirely by market business, which has led it to the inability to generate free reproduction, about new investments that I don't even speak. When so unilaterally speaking about railways, and we know that it is much easier to criticise than something concrete to offer and do, it is too often forgotten that the comparative advantages of rail transport than other modes of transport, so I would remind fellow MPs and citizens that the railway has a far better option and greater efficiency of mass transport and goods and passengers than any other kind of traffic. The only one that is comparable is water transport in terms of price, but not in terms of speed. The railway has a far lower consumption of power than the mass of transport, or cargo, of about 40% of the consumption compared to road traffic, and a very approximate consumption of power from water traffic. There are far less negative environmental consequences. The cost of environmental traffic damage in the EU is about 4.6% of national income, of which 92% of road traffic, 7% is air traffic, and only 1.7% of rail traffic. It has far greater security than other traffic types compared to the number of people killed in traffic accidents for the same amount of transport. Between rail and road traffic is 1:100, and the damage is 1:3,500. Finally, the possibility of traffic taking place in almost all meteorological conditions, then the comfort of travel. Let's compare air transport and rail transport where there's no air transport between city centers, and there's a railroad. In airline transport it is impossible to use today inevitable electronic devices such as computers or mobile phones, and in railways it is. Not to mention the absence of waiting for boarding and landing which in the case of air traffic is something that spends a considerable amount of time, and that is not available in rail traffic. When we add to this the high speeds of transport that exist today, unfortunately not in all countries but in some EU countries, we see how many comparative advantages railways have on other modes of transport. Taking into account all the above, it is not difficult to conclude what kind of attention rail transport should have in every country that is strategically thinking and taking care of itself and its future. I believe that a good number of listed virtues of rail transport do not fully apply in our terms, but it is not a good part and a product of bad policymaking in recent decades. The mistakes of the past cannot be corrected overnight, but in order to correct them at all, it is necessary to take the first step, which is to create assumptions for the improvement of the Serbian Railway system. It is only possible to do so by passing a law that would respect the reality in which we live and in the given conditions to try to use the best applicable world practices, stressing the applicable ones, make all benefits of rail transport available to Serbian citizens. The bill of law that lies before us should not be seen as a final solution to all problems, far from it. He should be a good basis for an upgrade that could, unfortunately, at least on the mid-term, not so quickly, make the desired results. Unfortunately, in our old custom, with reforms and the passing of this law, we are quite late. For example, the deadline for the adoption of the reformed Railway Act expired approximately two years ago, according to the EU SAA and according to the information I received. To avoid misunderstandings, delay in the adoption of this law is not just a matter of EU association. It is much more a question of sustainability of the rail system in Serbia and the rest, not to say, survival in the European rail system. I doubt even the EU's most bitter opponents want the railway trip to any foreign country to become a nightmare for Serbian citizens. So the quickest adoption of this law is imperative. What are the most important innovations this law brings? The extension of the Railway Directorate's responsibilities, the adoption of a five-year national railway infrastructure programme, which will be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of Serbia, whose annual implementation will be supervised by the Government and reported to the Assembly, the removal in practice of the observed shortcomings of the previous legislative solution, the modernisation of the law and its adaptation to new EU directives and the removal of the provisions relating to the safety of rail traffic in the safety and interoperability of railways law. Although the Railways Directorate was established in 2004 and has since implemented its law of intended competence, it has shown in practice that its role should be far more significant, and this expects, for the truth, for the sake of will, that is to say, Brussels, and the EU. The existence and expansion of the Railway Directorate's intelligence is not something to worry about, because it is no new political trick for the recruitment of party personnel, but our obligation in the EU accession process. I will remind you that the Railways Directorate is the heiress of the Yugoslav Railways Community, so the bodies that existed 30 years before it, and for the sake of the unbelief of Tom, I will also say that, for example, The newly-roasted EU member Croatia has two agencies that are doing the same job at the moment, which will be entrusted to the Railway Directorate after the adoption of this law. So it's more economical than it's wasteful. In the absence of time, I will not enter all the new responsibilities of the Directorate, but instead, I will try to show the importance of expanding its powers on two illustrating examples. The first is that as of June 1st 2013, railway cars from Serbia will be able to cross Serbia's border with any other country only if they get a registration authorised by the Railways Directorate and with its new powers. So if we were not to pass this law by an emergency procedure, we would be put into a situation in order to have our cars stopped at borders on 1 June 2013. Another thing that is very important amongst the many new powers received by the Railways Directorate is that by adopting all the necessary standards and obtaining all the necessary certifications, we are opening new perspectives for our car industry, and we know in what state our car industry is and what problems we had in the previous period, especially some related to privatisation in this industry, which was once one of the feathers of our industry. So we are opening up new perspectives for it by being able to produce and remount cars for European railways, which is not possible at the moment. As far as the national railway infrastructure programme is concerned, it is a planned act of national importance in the railway area. It was about time, I dare say, that the solution to the problem of Serbian railways is approached strategically and that they are looking for systemic permanent solutions, instead of partial solutions, that is to do systematic, not ad hoc fire-fighting, and then by pushing the remaining unresolved problems under the carpet. A new concept of a railway organisation in Serbia, based on its division on two separate continents in rail traffic, should also be achieved, according to the minister, more efficient management of the railway system, but I would say a higher degree of transparency in the business of the Serbian Railways, both of which were not minor in the previous period. The obligation to separate infrastructures from the transport of goods and services, however, existed in the previous 2005 law, but was not fully defined, nor had an imperative tone. Now this is more precise and far more strictly defined, thus finally opening up the space for so much needed to introduce competition in railway transport. The expected effects of this measure are to reduce budget burdens based on the subsidisation of Serbia's Railways, but also to increase the quality of rail transport. In the future, all users, and by this I mean the Serbian Railways, but also some new operators, will pay for access to rail infrastructure, by subsidising the operation of the infrastructure manager, so the difference between the charges they have and the costs they have, which will probably be, even in some starting period, which can take longer, because its economic position, therefore, is unsustainable at this point. On the other hand, the public railway undertaking will no longer be obliged to retain all non-resistable lines, except those for which the state or body of local self-government is particularly interested, in which case they will be obliged to cover business losses on those lines. So we have an economic and marketable far better orderly situation. This will create the basis that, with the inevitable and urgent rationalisation of the business even if the domestic railway carrier, I am only talking about the work of the Serbian Railways, which, after its detachment, so to speak, is said to be different – spin of, exclusively by transporting passengers and goods, becoming a viable company in some future period. As for non-covered lines, they will be given a chance by some new interested operators, who may be able to deliver positive results with better business models. Of course, their right is not only limited to those lines that are not interested in Serbia's Railways, but also for other lines, which creates practically one system in which competition will strengthen, which will eventually create conditions for increasing the quality of rail traffic in Serbia. When we add to that the fact that, as I understand it, the Russian 800 million dollar loan is on the door, intended to improve the rail infrastructure in the most part, one part is for the purchase, as I understand it, twenty locomotives, but it is certainly a smaller part of that 800 million, and I would say that this is one of the first, if not the first serious investment in railways in the last few decades, then there is a reason for optimism, provided that the future rail system, or the entire rail traffic, is handled, as our people say, domestically. As for the provisions relating to the safety of rail transport, which have been removed from the Law on Railways in the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways, which is still, unfortunately, not brought in, they almost create, I apologize for having to use perhaps too strong words, but I have received such information from some parts of the professional public, some kind of legal vacuum or interregne. The law which now regulates that area, which is thirty years old, has become obsolete in a partial conflict, has given me such information, with solutions from the new Railways Act, and the most urgent adoption of the law on safety and interoperability of railways is imposed as an imperative. To conclude, this Law on Railways is in this form which today is ahead of us cannot be considered an ideal solution, if such a solution even exists, I would dare even say long-term. I don't want this to cause me to panic with the people that there's going to be some new laws being passed all the time. Not to be misunderstood doesn't mean this bill is bad. On the contrary, the proposal is good because it represents a compromise of best European practices and our current real opportunities and capacities. The best confirmation of this is the positive criticism he received from the EU, regardless of what does not contain everything that is from us at the moment, I would say, unreally requested. Just copying an EU directive or a law from some of its members would be a dead letter on paper, as the Serbian Railway, as it is at the moment, is unable to face all the challenges that such legal solutions would put before it. This does not mean that to improve this legal solution through some future changes and additions, when conditions are acquired for such a thing, we should not work in the future. The first step is to adopt as soon as possible the safety and interoperability law of the railways, which, according to my information, as well as the minister can confirm whether they are correct, is expected within the next few months. To repeat, the SDPS parliamentary group considers the proposal for a railway law to be an improvement in earlier solutions, and will support it in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25753	Thank you. Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I refer my question today to Justice Minister Sasa Radulovic. I come from the town of Kruševac whose economy has survived very difficult times in the last decade despite the investment of great effort to put the existing operational capacities into operation, but without adequate and clear state assistance, every day is getting harder. I remind you that the town of Kruševac was an economic miracle of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Serbia. In the city itself, with some 60,000 inhabitants, there were more than 45,000 employees, of which more than 25,000 people in the industry. Heterogen economic structure, engineering, chemical industry, rubber, textiles, the production of alcoholic beverages, the processing of agricultural products, construction, processing industry and other branches placed the town of Kruševac in Serbia's most developed area. Kruševec's imperceptibility, we Kruševljani, at no cost, are going to allow and therefore I am using the opportunity to refer two questions to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Saša Radulovic, with the aim of making appropriate solutions to overcome the current difficulties and to start restoring the economic life of Kruševec. The first question - what are the plans of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to stop the further collapse of the IMK "14. October" Kruševac and is there a real plan for this giant machinery to be integrated into the system of production of the public sector in Serbia, Elektroprivreda, mines, road construction and the like? The second question – what is the Government of the Republic of Serbia doing that, above all, "The Last", is being resold by ownership and that it restores serious production for which all the necessary capacities exist from energy, raw materials, technology and human resources are needed? Through asking parliamentary questions, I wanted to meet both the Serbian minister and the public with the real state of the former economic centre, such as Kruševac, and to request that all the measures envisaged by law be taken to stop the trend of losing jobs and create conditions for Kruševac to be a successful city again on Serbia's business map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25754	If it weren't for a party, only one party would go, but MPs of the SPS, JS and SDS and DS and from all other parties would be invited. Only SNS representatives were invited. It's a party event. Except for the board you set up for that bridge you didn't do. If it weren't for a party, only one party would go, but MPs of the SPS, JS and SDS and DS and from all other parties would be invited. Only SNS representatives were invited. It's a party event. Except for the board you set up for that bridge you didn't do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25756	The word has Minister Mrkonjic. The word has Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25759	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Tamara Tripic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25760	Thank you very much. You haven't talked much about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You probably wanted to raise your voice to me and everyone here. That's what I have to figure out. As far as working hours are concerned, he writes – according to the rule Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18.00 with a one-hour break. As a rule, and that's very clear to you as a lawyer what it means. The president can establish a second working time. No outings are scheduled or planned. I'm going to take that as something extracurricular that you wanted to take out, I don't know on whose account. As for the call, I really don't know what it's about. Here, as President of Parliament, I invite you all to come to the opening of the bridge today. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I did not prepare. I don't know what it takes. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Zastava, sandwiches. All right. This is a very important event for our country, and as far as I know... (Janko Vesenović, from the place: That's why we wanted to come. I'm sure you'd like to come. I don't even know anything about those buses. If you want someone to answer you honestly, and I'll ask around, so I'll answer you, but you didn't ask me a question, you asked me a violation of the Rules of Procedure. As a kind of lawyer, you know you didn't ask me a question, but you asked us to discuss Article 87, regarding the dignity of the National Assembly and of the 107. Nothing's hurt, we're here doing our job right. As far as I can see, an extremely large number of MPs are in the hall and the SNS parliamentary groups you said were empty. If I go out in ten minutes, believe me, I have a number of obligations, don't refer to what you're talking about, but I'll definitely attend to something later. I'd be honored. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. You haven't talked much about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You probably wanted to raise your voice to me and everyone here. That's what I have to figure out. As far as working hours are concerned, he writes – according to the rule Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10.00 to 18.00 with a one-hour break. As a rule, and that's very clear to you as a lawyer what it means. The president can establish a second working time. No outings are scheduled or planned. I'm going to take that as something extracurricular that you wanted to take out, I don't know on whose account. As for the call, I really don't know what it's about. Here, as President of Parliament, I invite you all to come to the opening of the bridge today. (Janko Vesenović, from the place: I did not prepare. I don't know what it takes. (Janko Veselinović, from town: Zastava, sandwiches. All right. This is a very important event for our country, and as far as I know... (Janko Vesenović, from the place: That's why we wanted to come. I'm sure you'd like to come. I don't even know anything about those buses. If you want someone to answer you honestly, and I'll ask around, so I'll answer you, but you didn't ask me a question, you asked me a violation of the Rules of Procedure. As a kind of lawyer, you know you didn't ask me a question, but you asked us to discuss Article 87, regarding the dignity of the National Assembly and of the 107. Nothing's hurt, we're here doing our job right. As far as I can see, an extremely large number of MPs are in the hall and the SNS parliamentary groups you said were empty. If I go out in ten minutes, believe me, I have a number of obligations, don't refer to what you're talking about, but I'll definitely attend to something later. I'd be honored. The word has been made by MP Zoran Babic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25762	Because after a truly great discussion and speech, Mr Bauer finally asked one question, I must inform him, and all MPs, that the Security and Interoperability Act will be passed very quickly. I hope he'll be here before you in a month. Now he's entered this famous procedure in the government. We made it and the government pleads. Thank you very much, Mr. Bauer. Because after a truly great discussion and speech, Mr Bauer finally asked one question, I must inform him, and all MPs, that the Security and Interoperability Act will be passed very quickly. I hope he'll be here before you in a month. Now he's entered this famous procedure in the government. We made it and the government pleads. Thank you very much, Mr. Bauer.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25765	Thank you. Given that today is the International Day of Human Rights, the issue of human rights in Serbia is logically imposed, and I today intend to ask a question about those human rights that government officials do not mention, and officials of their violation are reluctant to speak, which is the right to a fair trial, and the European Commission also pointed to the problem. The question for the Ministry of Justice is – why is there no prejudgation of innocence and why no criminal action has been brought against any case in the media, when it has been bid against the penalties and the advertisers, and those against whom the proceedings are not being conducted. To remind you, in a report by the European Commission on Serbia's 2013 progress, it is explicitly stressed, I quote - concerns are caused by reports that there are orchestrated media campaigns against the opposition, coalition partners and independent authorities in certain tabloids, presenting details of investigations and announcing arrests based on anonymous sources or information leaked from police investigation or prosecution. The script is always the same. Arrests are first announced for months in the tabloids. People are declared criminals and thieves, tried without a court of law, unverified anonymous statements and police and prosecution tips are taken as absolute truth, on the front pages of the tabloids they are ordered to punish, bring judgments, announce hearings, arrests and arrests, and when one of them is released, no one announces it. A system in which one party and the tabloids decide who is innocent and who is a criminal leads to political persecution throughout Serbia. Seventy-three people were detained or detained, and some are still in custody, and hundreds of citizens were invited to informative talks only because DS members or at some point had contact with Democrats. The detention has become the most popular means of accounting with political opponents and for these persecuted people, I must tell you, the most expensive way to collect political points. I remind you, gentlemen, you should let the institutions of the state do their job, and the minister of justice would have to react to these phenomena. Let me remind you, the universal Declaration of Human Rights specifically in my article. 9, 10th and 11th says no one is to be automatically arrested or detained. Everyone has the exact same right to a fair trial before an independent and impartial court, and anyone charged with a crime has the right to be considered innocent until proven guilty under the law. 73 of them have been denied these rights. How much longer does it take to destroy human destiny for the state to start responding? In order to prove that the arrests are not politically motivated, judicial verdicts should be reached and the details of the investigation and proceedings in the media should be suspended. The second question for the Justice Ministry is also – will it launch an investigation into what the ruling party MP said, which is that the judiciary and the police are working on a political order? The responsibility of the authorities is to examine these allegations. When counterpart Cvian said, I quote -- that at the last three session of the party's presidency, who will be arrested, including Milan Bek, Dmitr Djurovic, Director of Corridor, Miodrag Krstic, Dusan Spasojevic, Mladjan Dinkic, Veroljub Stevanovic, because Vukic cannot be replaced, some SNS people because Vukic does not like them, several directors, Mark Jaksic, to open an investigation against Cedomir Jovanovic, arrests Dragan Djilas, and Cvian argues, the arrest of Dusan Bajatovic was also ordered. Then what's the state's reaction? Do we in the state have or do we not have an independent judiciary and a prosecutor's office or, as counterpart Cvian says, it has become the jurisdiction of the SNS presidency? We also ask that the justice ministry publish statistics on the number of official officials in the political parties against whom the proceedings are being conducted, because the statistics prove that there is only one party's systematic arrest. Fourthly, corruption, as a phenomenon, affects the exercise of many rights, education, health and justice, and in this sense, the Anti-Corruption Agency plays a very important role. However, the Agency’s leaders often made public comments, in violation of the Agency’s Law, thus showing some arbitration. (President: Please bring the end. Finish your thought. ) I just wanted to ask the Anti-Corruption Agency – from which political parties come officials against whom criminal charges have been filed and it is true that the only criminal charges have been filed against DS MPs, although we have thousands of officials who have never reported the assets to the Agency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25766	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President. I'm not going to ask you to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Article 107, dignity has been violated. Where are, on which trip, on which picnic are the MPs of the former regime's parties? On which picnic are these empty benches both today and tonight and last night and yesterday when there were more ministers here in the National Assembly than MPs of the former regime. What picnic are they at? What day-to-day picnic are they at? We can see that he's flirting in the National Assembly, having breakfast, having dinner at the National Assembly. He doesn't attend here, and then time is measured and measured where SNS MPs are. Is that some habit from the previous regime, a dictatorship of what we can't do? What's this? Should I be afraid of Mr. Janko Veselinovic as a citizen of this country? These are dangerous claims, dangerous tendencies that the MP, the citizen of this country, has no freedom. I can freely ask, these empty benches of former regime parties insult citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party is here at midnight and noon. It is not difficult for us to work and at eight o'clock in the morning, if it is difficult for you to excuse us, we will work because Serbian citizens expect it from us. We will not ask from warm benches – why Zaječar, Negotin or Krajina received earlier electricity. No, we'll be in the field, but we'll be in the National Assembly Hall, but it's a violation of dignity to ask, not turn around and look at those empty benches. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President. I'm not going to ask you to vote on the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Article 107, dignity has been violated. Where are, on which trip, on which picnic are the MPs of the former regime's parties? On which picnic are these empty benches both today and tonight and last night and yesterday when there were more ministers here in the National Assembly than MPs of the former regime. What picnic are they at? What day-to-day picnic are they at? We can see that he's flirting in the National Assembly, having breakfast, having dinner at the National Assembly. He doesn't attend here, and then time is measured and measured where SNS MPs are. Is that some habit from the previous regime, a dictatorship of what we can't do? What's this? Should I be afraid of Mr. Janko Veselinovic as a citizen of this country? These are dangerous claims, dangerous tendencies that the MP, the citizen of this country, has no freedom. I can freely ask, these empty benches of former regime parties insult citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party is here at midnight and noon. It is not difficult for us to work and at eight o'clock in the morning, if it is difficult for you to excuse us, we will work because Serbian citizens expect it from us. We will not ask from warm benches – why Zaječar, Negotin or Krajina received earlier electricity. No, we'll be in the field, but we'll be in the National Assembly Hall, but it's a violation of dignity to ask, not turn around and look at those empty benches.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25768	Thank you. Next reported is Mr. Slobodan Jeremic. Thank you. Next reported is Mr. Slobodan Jeremic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25771	The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25772	Article 107 speaks of the dignity of the congregation. I can only repeat what I said that all MPs are responsible for their conduct in this House and whether they will come or not to come to work, discuss. If you'd like to make a statement in the voting day. No, I don't. Thank you. I forgot to ask Mr. Veselinovic if he wanted us to come forward. No thanks. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Article 107 speaks of the dignity of the congregation. I can only repeat what I said that all MPs are responsible for their conduct in this House and whether they will come or not to come to work, discuss. If you'd like to make a statement in the voting day. No, I don't. Thank you. I forgot to ask Mr. Veselinovic if he wanted us to come forward. No thanks. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25774	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was passed in 2005 by a valid Railway Act. During the seven-year monitoring of the application of this law by the Ministry of Transport, as well as the application and analysis of the effects of the application of this law by the Railway Directorate, it has been established that it is necessary to access the adoption of a new law in order to effectively carry out operations in the area of rail traffic. Minister, we congratulate you on that. This is one of the first laws in this session that is comprehensive. We don't put out the fires and go to a whole new continent. The new draft law on railways sets out the harmonisation of the rules in the area of rail traffic with relevant EU regulations, I would like to say to the directives and regulations of the European railway community. I wouldn't count it all if I wasn't wasting my time. A decision to change the legal form of the Public Enterprise "The Railway of Serbia-Belgrade" was made before the law was drawn up. The decision is on amendments and additions to the founding act of the Public Enterprise "The Railway of Serbia". Those decisions have been reorganised by the Public Undertaking "The Railway of Serbia" on a completely new and modern basis in the Action Society "The Railway of Serbia", which allows for more efficient work and business in line with market conditions. The full application of that decision was not possible without the adoption of a new law governing rail traffic and creating the necessary environment for the operation and operation of that company. The government of the Republic of Serbia has agreed on a decision to organise the Action Society "Serb-Belgrade Railway" to comply with the Law on Business Society and Consent to the Statute of the Action Society "The Railway of Serbia". The lagging behind in harmonising the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, relating to rail traffic in relation to EU regulations, as well as the lagging behind in the restructuring of the said railway undertaking, i.e. the overall rail transport system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, has already led to its incompatibility and discrepancies with the railways of the countries in the environment and with the railways of the EU countries. This led to a disproportion in investment in railways compared to road infrastructure. The railroad is falling short. The reason is that no investor wants to invest in an unrestructured, outdated and inefficient railway. Some of the consequences are already being felt, and this is bypassing Corridor 10 as the naturally most favourable and shortest road from Western Europe to Turkey and the Middle East and turning goods flows towards alternative routes across Romania and Bulgaria. As part of harmonising the RS rules with EU rules, as is done by this law, the results of the restructuring of railways that give the Republic of Serbia a great chance to educate efficient and effective rail traffic. Given that railways are a vital part of the state transport burden, the efficiency of the railway system should be improved in order to integrate this system into a competitive transport service market, as well as that rail traffic should be made more efficient and more competitive than other modes of traffic. It is necessary that the State enables railway undertakings to be independent operators to operate in a commercial manner in accordance with market requirements. The future development and efficient operation of the railway system can be improved if there is a difference between the provision of transport services on the one hand and the management of infrastructure on the other hand, with the need to manage this concept with these two activities and that they have their own accounts, as provided for in this law. It's a very important item. One of the main objectives of rail development through restructuring is that when competition does come, these railway companies are in a strong position to survive on the market. The new Law on Railways also modernises specific parts of the laws governing access and use of railway infrastructure in order to achieve competition with regard to the provision of services to rail users in terms of improving comforts and services in general. The State retains responsibility for the development of adequate railway infrastructure. The infrastructure manager, with the consent of the Government, is required to establish rules governing the fees and prices of railway service providers for the use of railway infrastructure. The state should provide a sound financial structure, especially for an existing state-owned railway carrier. The significant paper provided for in this law refers to the introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme, which brings the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the government's proposal. This national programme is a planned act of national importance in the railway area. The solutions provided for in this bill will have a positive impact on all participants in the rail traffic process, the Railways and Business Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law with improvements that will take place through a debate in principle and in particular, expressed in the amendments. Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, was passed in 2005 by a valid Railway Act. During the seven-year monitoring of the application of this law by the Ministry of Transport, as well as the application and analysis of the effects of the application of this law by the Railway Directorate, it has been established that it is necessary to access the adoption of a new law in order to effectively carry out operations in the area of rail traffic. Minister, we congratulate you on that. This is one of the first laws in this session that is comprehensive. We don't put out the fires and go to a whole new continent. The new draft law on railways sets out the harmonisation of the rules in the area of rail traffic with relevant EU regulations, I would like to say to the directives and regulations of the European railway community. I wouldn't count it all if I wasn't wasting my time. A decision to change the legal form of the Public Enterprise "The Railway of Serbia-Belgrade" was made before the law was drawn up. The decision is on amendments and additions to the founding act of the Public Enterprise "The Railway of Serbia". Those decisions have been reorganised by the Public Undertaking "The Railway of Serbia" on a completely new and modern basis in the Action Society "The Railway of Serbia", which allows for more efficient work and business in line with market conditions. The full application of that decision was not possible without the adoption of a new law governing rail traffic and creating the necessary environment for the operation and operation of that company. The government of the Republic of Serbia has agreed on a decision to organise the Action Society "Serb-Belgrade Railway" to comply with the Law on Business Society and Consent to the Statute of the Action Society "The Railway of Serbia". The lagging behind in harmonising the regulations of the Republic of Serbia, relating to rail traffic in relation to EU regulations, as well as the lagging behind in the restructuring of the said railway undertaking, i.e. the overall rail transport system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, has already led to its incompatibility and discrepancies with the railways of the countries in the environment and with the railways of the EU countries. This led to a disproportion in investment in railways compared to road infrastructure. The railroad is falling short. The reason is that no investor wants to invest in an unrestructured, outdated and inefficient railway. Some of the consequences are already being felt, and this is bypassing Corridor 10 as the naturally most favourable and shortest road from Western Europe to Turkey and the Middle East and turning goods flows towards alternative routes across Romania and Bulgaria. As part of harmonising the RS rules with EU rules, as is done by this law, the results of the restructuring of railways that give the Republic of Serbia a great chance to educate efficient and effective rail traffic. Given that railways are a vital part of the state transport burden, the efficiency of the railway system should be improved in order to integrate this system into a competitive transport service market, as well as that rail traffic should be made more efficient and more competitive than other modes of traffic. It is necessary that the State enables railway undertakings to be independent operators to operate in a commercial manner in accordance with market requirements. The future development and efficient operation of the railway system can be improved if there is a difference between the provision of transport services on the one hand and the management of infrastructure on the other hand, with the need to manage this concept with these two activities and that they have their own accounts, as provided for in this law. It's a very important item. One of the main objectives of rail development through restructuring is that when competition does come, these railway companies are in a strong position to survive on the market. The new Law on Railways also modernises specific parts of the laws governing access and use of railway infrastructure in order to achieve competition with regard to the provision of services to rail users in terms of improving comforts and services in general. The State retains responsibility for the development of adequate railway infrastructure. The infrastructure manager, with the consent of the Government, is required to establish rules governing the fees and prices of railway service providers for the use of railway infrastructure. The state should provide a sound financial structure, especially for an existing state-owned railway carrier. The significant paper provided for in this law refers to the introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme, which brings the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to the government's proposal. This national programme is a planned act of national importance in the railway area. The solutions provided for in this bill will have a positive impact on all participants in the rail traffic process, the Railways and Business Directorate of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the PUPS parliamentary group will support this law with improvements that will take place through a debate in principle and in particular, expressed in the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25777	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we face the fact that Serbia is burdened with many problems. These are minor, large or huge problems affecting individuals, certain groups, or a large number of citizens. But there is one problem that none of us can close our eyes, before which none of us can and must turn his head. I've been approached by citizens with one letter that I'm going to read and through that letter they see their problem, and in the end I'm going to ask certain ministries a question. "Respected, you are addressed by a Belgrade group of parents from an affair of missing babies from the maternity home. It is not only on its own behalf, but on behalf of thousands of troubled parents from all over Serbia. He speaks and prays. Pray that this country, the only one we have, sees through after many years, sees through and tells the truth, long hidden and covered up. Who has been trading our newborns for decades? Who are these people who kidnap children to mothers? We've been fighting this monster for years. Whenever we think we've come across an understanding by the state, we quickly realize that we're being deceived and deceived again. The appearance of a search for the truth about its missing children from the maternity ward has narrowed down and brought together Serbian parents in 2002. All the cases resembled each other. After the birth, the doctors told the mothers that the baby had reportedly died. The children were not allowed to see, identify and bury. So for decades, and doubt remains. All the missing babies in the same scenario is just the difference in place, year and time of birth. Parents addressed and sought documentation in maternity homes, institutions for premature births, municipal maternity services, prosecutors' offices, courts, police and ministries. The epilogue of the long-standing search for his supposedly deceased babies is – our children's corpses are gone, our criminal charges have been brought by courts and prosecutors under aging. In 2002 and 2003, parents collected evidence and documents to file criminal charges. The Republic Prosecutor shall issue a mandatory instruction to prosecute and take statements from parents by municipal courts. In 2004, the elected VD republican prosecutor issued a new mandatory instruction where cases are suspended and subject to obsolescence, explaining that there is no legal opportunity to conduct investigations. We addressed the National Assembly, the Committee on Presentations and Proposals, which assessed that this was an extremely difficult problem that needed to be solved within the shortest time. In 2005, the Survey Committee was educated to determine the truth about missing children from maternity homes in several cities in Serbia. Parents co-operated with the Committee and made a major contribution based on everything expressed on the Committee, and it was put into the report. In 2006, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted a report on the work of the Survey Committee with a proposal for a measure. From 2007 to 2010, parents are back on the wind of state institutions, and according to the proposal of the Survey Committee, nothing concrete has been done, just a dead letter on paper. In 2010, several parents refer to the Citizens' Protector, who, with special attention, considered complaints and submitted a special report, hoping to benefit not only the National Assembly and its Working Party for draft legislation in order to create formal legal conditions for the conduct of the state authority following reports of missing newborn children from maternity homes, but also state bodies and institutions that will try to answer this sensitive and earthquake issue in the next period. However, in 2011, the Working Party for the Draft Law to create formal legal conditions for the conduct of state authorities following reports of missing newborn children from the maternity ward submitted a report that it would not be justified to amend the provisions of the Criminal Code and that there is no constitutional possibility to allow the processing of previously occurring cases of missing babies. On September 9, 2013, following an appeal made by the Republic of Serbia to the International Court in Strasbourg, on the suit of Mother Zorica Jovanovic, the verdict becomes legal in the case of missing babies, and the state is obliged to take appropriate measures, and best to pass a special law that would prescribe a mechanism aimed at providing individual satisfaction for all parents. Who knows which way we're addressing you with a request to carry out the International Court's verdict with common forces and that after 11 years, the parents of missing babies come to the truth about their missing children, because it's hard to live and carry the burden that our children grow up, grow away from us, and that time cannot return. In advance, the grateful parents of missing babies. “ I don’t think any of us can stay silent on this issue. All those who are well-intentioned should help to get rid of this. I think the question should be addressed to both the prime minister and the minister of justice and the minister of health and to all those in their domains who can find at least any opportunity to resolve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25778	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I'm advocating Article 103 of Section 7 and 8. To remind you, these attitudes speak, when a member of the Parliament in the advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure clearly abuses it, chairing the time that the MP has abused by advertising the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to refuse from the time of the Parliament's group. So, since there's been talk of a bridge here, of a must, here I am not going, it's voluntary. So it's not an army. Since there were talk of buses, etc. I suggest that the time for misappropriation of the Rules of Procedure is denied to the MP's group, but I have an understanding of your behaviour, which you do not punish the opposition, in that I support you. My proposal is to extend the exposure time to Mr. Janko Veseinovic, to allow him maximum, because the more he says, the better it is for us. In the end, no matter what some buses are talking about, I'm really sorry, and I'm asking Mr. Babic to order a van for a parliamentary group that has abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure because everyone will stand in it. I'll have a car, too. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The one of 100,000 euros can. ) Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I'm advocating Article 103 of Section 7 and 8. To remind you, these attitudes speak, when a member of the Parliament in the advertising of the breach of the Rules of Procedure clearly abuses it, chairing the time that the MP has abused by advertising the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to refuse from the time of the Parliament's group. So, since there's been talk of a bridge here, of a must, here I am not going, it's voluntary. So it's not an army. Since there were talk of buses, etc. I suggest that the time for misappropriation of the Rules of Procedure is denied to the MP's group, but I have an understanding of your behaviour, which you do not punish the opposition, in that I support you. My proposal is to extend the exposure time to Mr. Janko Veseinovic, to allow him maximum, because the more he says, the better it is for us. In the end, no matter what some buses are talking about, I'm really sorry, and I'm asking Mr. Babic to order a van for a parliamentary group that has abused the breach of the Rules of Procedure because everyone will stand in it. I'll have a car, too. (Marko Djurisic, from the post: The one of 100,000 euros can. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25780	The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic. The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25783	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the next National MP: Stosic Milorad. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of promoter Lazar Krstic, Minister of Finance, Saša Radulovic, Minister of Industry and Prof. Dr. Dragan Glamočić, Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Dr. Nikola Ćorsovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Nikša Vusurović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Branko Drcelic, Director of Public Debt Management and Nada Mirkovic, Head of Finance Department. We are continuing the search in principle on the proposals for acts referred to in points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda. The word has a folk MP, Susana Grubjesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25784	Thank you, I didn't understand. You see the messenger throwing away, and you're looking for something for me to do. I can't. We're all grown-ups, everybody takes it out of the house or doesn't take it. That's my sincerest answer. That every time I play the grandma horn or the teacher who's always gonna yell don't and punish me, that's not what I want. At the cost of bringing in someone else who's always gonna punish someone, yells and warns to act like one or the other. If there was a possibility of taking time, you were aware that a press conference would then be held and that it would be declared the supreme dictator in this country who would not allow two minutes and a few seconds to be used. That's not what I want, if you think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure and we're gonna do it by voting. No, I don't. Thank you. On what basis are you answering? (Branka Jankovic, from town: Replica. ) No replica, only the injuries of the Rules of Procedure were so that they could not replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're starting work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic. Thank you, I didn't understand. You see the messenger throwing away, and you're looking for something for me to do. I can't. We're all grown-ups, everybody takes it out of the house or doesn't take it. That's my sincerest answer. That every time I play the grandma horn or the teacher who's always gonna yell don't and punish me, that's not what I want. At the cost of bringing in someone else who's always gonna punish someone, yells and warns to act like one or the other. If there was a possibility of taking time, you were aware that a press conference would then be held and that it would be declared the supreme dictator in this country who would not allow two minutes and a few seconds to be used. That's not what I want, if you think I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure and we're gonna do it by voting. No, I don't. Thank you. On what basis are you answering? (Branka Jankovic, from town: Replica. ) No replica, only the injuries of the Rules of Procedure were so that they could not replicate the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're starting work. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25786	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, this session began with 20 minutes late, fully in the order of the agenda. I'm talking about the railroad. We know how late the railways are. Therefore, I am glad that parliament is trending and that it follows everything that is happening in real life. When we talk about this law, we don't have any particular objections as far as the law is concerned. It's about an average regulation. It meets some of the average standards of laws proposed and adopted in Serbia. That's not the point. What's the topic? I would ask one key question – do you really think with this law you're going to solve the most difficult problems of this big system, the rail system? The problems relate to the state of infrastructure, under one, and to the party management and management of the railway system. These are the key problems that are so characteristic of "Serbian Railways". As for the content of this law, it does not result in any of these problems being solved. I have no doubt about your optimism, Mr. Minister. You have some experience in this subject. You worked in the term of last government, but it seems to me one optimism without cover. We are witnessing that previous directors-generals of the Serbian Railways were also very optimistic. Certain optimism is also suggested in statements by the current CEO, Mr. Simonovic, called Sim. It seems to me that this optimism, which adorns it, is somehow consistent and completely unfounded with these other optimisms, which we have survived, and today we find ourselves in the situation that the Serbian Railways have over 3,800 km of rail, that the average speed of these trains is about 40 km per hour, that only 2.5% of that length of the track is twofold, that we have a seriously damaged entire infrastructure, that it is no longer worth driving trains, that the engineers often don't have mirrors, so on the flea market, they buy some mirrors for 250 dinars, so they carry it in their pocket and install it as needed. We have a serious problem in this big system. What do you mean, you're solving it? You mentioned a Russian loan, and you've been mentioning it, Mr. Minister, for years. You expected it to be realized in 2011, only Putin to come, immediately afterwards, followed by the realization of the loan. To this day, this loan is not realised. It may be expected during May this year. You mentioned it, and it seems to me that the directors-generals of the Railways of Serbia mentioned it, that sooner or later, the railway would finance its entire work and management of the system. However, we only got this situation that in 2008, the government decided to turn all debts into capital from 2004 to 2008, and after that, the debts continued to grow, so today these debts are still large. I have no doubt that sooner or later the situation will be resolved in some way, it may turn into a public debt, but in any case, all these debts will sooner or later fall on the burden of the average citizen of Serbia, or on the taxpayer. So that's the situation with the optimism. I would also ask you a question about the management of Serbia's railways – was it necessary for the government to be appointed by the Director-General a few days before the application of the Public Procurement Act? It's not an exception. The directors were also appointed to the Official Messenger, and to the Colubara, and to the "Serbiagas" in the same way. This is the state's attitude towards public enterprises, i.e. to a business such as the Serbian Railways. So will the state's attitude towards Serbia's railways change in this sense of managing these companies? Apparently not. As soon as you appointed this director without a public competition, you did not wait until the Public Procurement Act entered into force. Obviously, you have shown your intention to manage the Serbian Railways. That's the problem. The problem is party management. It's not a fact that all public enterprises are huge losers. Look at Telecom. Look at the cost of this country's annual management of public enterprises. That certainly is not less than one billion euros. These are huge costs followed by the work of public enterprises and companies in which the state plays a key role in governance, and this is also done in Železnica. Let's get back to that optimism. If you really believed everything you said, if all the directors-generals were truly believed, party-set, like party prey in the Serbian Railways, what happens if that optimism ultimately shows that it was not real? Did you ever go out and say - the situation is like this, we didn't expect things to get so complicated, really with great means, the Railways had, but those funds weren't well-oriented, the responsibility is on this one, this one? There are objective and subjective responsibilities. So, did you ever go out to the Serbian citizens and say, "Building, or reconstructing miles of railway lines in Serbia costs so much and so much?" Did you go out and say – a kilometer of highway construction costs so much and so much, we installed Serbian Railways, maybe put in a bottomless hole that much and so much resources. How long did it go to build a railroad? How much did this go for the purchase of trains, cars, locomotives? How much funds has this country spent on the railways of Serbia, and how much has gone for other purposes? Have you ever gone out and said – please, Serbian citizens, we used 10% of those funds that you allocated for the Serbian Railways, and 90% we kind of spent, we had some of our funds, some of our needs? Maybe the citizens of Serbia would understand that. They cannot understand when they see that the new and new debts of the Serbian Railways are constantly under control, while driving at a rate of 10 to 15% of the speed of the trains in Japan, let's not be Japan, be it any EU country. It's inadmissible in the 21st century. Have you thought about when you talked about this law wanting to improve the efficiency of the entire rail system, that this system will not function if it stays in the way that rails are managed, as it has been done over the past 20 years? Do you know, Mr. Minister, that in Vojvodina, you have 1,700 kilometers of railroads, railways? It is 45% of the amount of railways located in Serbia's territory. Why is the problem, for example, that the management of this infrastructure, located in the territory of Vojvodina, is managed by the Vojvodina, or by the province and by the Vojvodina Government? Why is that a problem? You've never entered a way of thinking, not to tear up that unique system, but simply to advance one of its parts, by allowing Vojvodina to also have an impact on that infrastructure located on its territory. I think you're aware of how this entire railway infrastructure in Vojvodina has been devastated over the past 20 years. I think you have information about it, and the other thing is whether or not you're going to accept it, or present it to the public. When I read the Law, I paid particular attention to the problems you have defined and which you intend to solve. One of the key problems, so you even pointed out that the most important problem is that the Railways Directorate, established by the previous law, did not have the authority to adopt sublegal acts. I just don't understand what the problem is, why the government didn't do it, the government could do it automatically. That is, therefore, the most important problem that has asked you to come up with a new bill. How about the next problems? You don't define them. You're saying there's been a lot of problems. What kinds of problems? So there's no definition of which problems you intend to solve. And now you're saying why law-making is the best way to solve a problem? I just have to read you this sentence, it's very interesting. You say – adopting a new railway law is the only option for overcoming all these problems and the only way to make law enforcement practical and effective. In fact, you take this law down to the level of a sublegal act. With this law, you intend to enable the implementation and implementation of the provisions of the already existing Railway Act of 2005. So how serious this is, it's actually saying how serious you are about changing the system of functioning of public enterprises, like the government, or the business society, such as the Serbian Railways. There's no such thing as here, Mr. Minister, the real will for that kind of change, because if there were, we wouldn't be in that situation where we are today when we talk about public enterprises. There is no improvement, the nadal system is being maintained, and the costs of functioning of these public systems are only being increased. So how do you think you can somehow start this country's economy, how do you think you can change the functioning of this country, including the Serbian Railways? When you look at the Serbian Railways, what do you see? You can see that there's a lot of talk about Corridor 10, 11, that you're talking about 80, 100, 200, 300 kilometers of railroad, and you forget that it's only 10% of those railways that already exist in Serbia's territory. You are talking about a Russian loan, and there are obviously some differences between the minister and the general director of the public company of the Serbian railway company. Can these differences be characterized as differences between different political parties or can they be characterized as some kind of misunderstanding between the competent ministry and the Serbian Railways? I'll leave it to you to make a statement if you like. We simply need to note that there are differences in terms – which are going to be financed from the Russian loan. It's no small thing, if there's such a kind of misunderstanding between the minister and the director. It is only one of the indicators, how you are actually accessing reformation, reconstruction, empowerment, construction and healing of the Serbian Railways. This way can work very well, but that way only has one demagogue reach and it will be exhausted somewhere, as all previous reforms of good intentions, optimism and announcements have exhausted and there is obviously not enough power for a more serious reform, because reforms are not popular. Reforms are dangerous if you really want to get into the depth of these changes and into fundamental changes. With this bill of law, I don't see any fundamental change in the announcement. It's good, in a technical sense, that you're strengthening competition somewhere, that you're introducing the possibility of foreign railway companies, but it's only a possibility. How will the law be implemented? You don't give us much hope that you'll really, in that sense, work on implementing the law, because if it wasn't done with the previous law, why would it be done with this law. I repeat, the very way, the system of functioning of public enterprises from these companies does not change. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I would really like to draw particular attention to the fact that the Serbian Railways do not have a future in this way, they do not have a future like this country has a clear economic future. Sooner or later you'll have to break. The later it gets, the harder it will be, because the debts will grow to the point where they will become unsustainable. Today, when we talk about this big system, it is very characteristic of what the CEO of the Railways of Serbia said, and he is probably at moments of honesty -- Serbian Railways are not ready for liberalisation. This law just confirms it. What you state in the law, that you will bring the accompanying regulations, or sublegal acts within 24 months of the date of entry into force of this law, is exactly what it points to. You will hardly introduce any kind of liberalism in the management of the Serbian Railways. The experience we have with... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... By functioning the railways, it's actually telling us that it's just impossible. Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, this session began with 20 minutes late, fully in the order of the agenda. I'm talking about the railroad. We know how late the railways are. Therefore, I am glad that parliament is trending and that it follows everything that is happening in real life. When we talk about this law, we don't have any particular objections as far as the law is concerned. It's about an average regulation. It meets some of the average standards of laws proposed and adopted in Serbia. That's not the point. What's the topic? I would ask one key question – do you really think with this law you're going to solve the most difficult problems of this big system, the rail system? The problems relate to the state of infrastructure, under one, and to the party management and management of the railway system. These are the key problems that are so characteristic of "Serbian Railways". As for the content of this law, it does not result in any of these problems being solved. I have no doubt about your optimism, Mr. Minister. You have some experience in this subject. You worked in the term of last government, but it seems to me one optimism without cover. We are witnessing that previous directors-generals of the Serbian Railways were also very optimistic. Certain optimism is also suggested in statements by the current CEO, Mr. Simonovic, called Sim. It seems to me that this optimism, which adorns it, is somehow consistent and completely unfounded with these other optimisms, which we have survived, and today we find ourselves in the situation that the Serbian Railways have over 3,800 km of rail, that the average speed of these trains is about 40 km per hour, that only 2.5% of that length of the track is twofold, that we have a seriously damaged entire infrastructure, that it is no longer worth driving trains, that the engineers often don't have mirrors, so on the flea market, they buy some mirrors for 250 dinars, so they carry it in their pocket and install it as needed. We have a serious problem in this big system. What do you mean, you're solving it? You mentioned a Russian loan, and you've been mentioning it, Mr. Minister, for years. You expected it to be realized in 2011, only Putin to come, immediately afterwards, followed by the realization of the loan. To this day, this loan is not realised. It may be expected during May this year. You mentioned it, and it seems to me that the directors-generals of the Railways of Serbia mentioned it, that sooner or later, the railway would finance its entire work and management of the system. However, we only got this situation that in 2008, the government decided to turn all debts into capital from 2004 to 2008, and after that, the debts continued to grow, so today these debts are still large. I have no doubt that sooner or later the situation will be resolved in some way, it may turn into a public debt, but in any case, all these debts will sooner or later fall on the burden of the average citizen of Serbia, or on the taxpayer. So that's the situation with the optimism. I would also ask you a question about the management of Serbia's railways – was it necessary for the government to be appointed by the Director-General a few days before the application of the Public Procurement Act? It's not an exception. The directors were also appointed to the Official Messenger, and to the Colubara, and to the "Serbiagas" in the same way. This is the state's attitude towards public enterprises, i.e. to a business such as the Serbian Railways. So will the state's attitude towards Serbia's railways change in this sense of managing these companies? Apparently not. As soon as you appointed this director without a public competition, you did not wait until the Public Procurement Act entered into force. Obviously, you have shown your intention to manage the Serbian Railways. That's the problem. The problem is party management. It's not a fact that all public enterprises are huge losers. Look at Telecom. Look at the cost of this country's annual management of public enterprises. That certainly is not less than one billion euros. These are huge costs followed by the work of public enterprises and companies in which the state plays a key role in governance, and this is also done in Železnica. Let's get back to that optimism. If you really believed everything you said, if all the directors-generals were truly believed, party-set, like party prey in the Serbian Railways, what happens if that optimism ultimately shows that it was not real? Did you ever go out and say - the situation is like this, we didn't expect things to get so complicated, really with great means, the Railways had, but those funds weren't well-oriented, the responsibility is on this one, this one? There are objective and subjective responsibilities. So, did you ever go out to the Serbian citizens and say, "Building, or reconstructing miles of railway lines in Serbia costs so much and so much?" Did you go out and say – a kilometer of highway construction costs so much and so much, we installed Serbian Railways, maybe put in a bottomless hole that much and so much resources. How long did it go to build a railroad? How much did this go for the purchase of trains, cars, locomotives? How much funds has this country spent on the railways of Serbia, and how much has gone for other purposes? Have you ever gone out and said – please, Serbian citizens, we used 10% of those funds that you allocated for the Serbian Railways, and 90% we kind of spent, we had some of our funds, some of our needs? Maybe the citizens of Serbia would understand that. They cannot understand when they see that the new and new debts of the Serbian Railways are constantly under control, while driving at a rate of 10 to 15% of the speed of the trains in Japan, let's not be Japan, be it any EU country. It's inadmissible in the 21st century. Have you thought about when you talked about this law wanting to improve the efficiency of the entire rail system, that this system will not function if it stays in the way that rails are managed, as it has been done over the past 20 years? Do you know, Mr. Minister, that in Vojvodina, you have 1,700 kilometers of railroads, railways? It is 45% of the amount of railways located in Serbia's territory. Why is the problem, for example, that the management of this infrastructure, located in the territory of Vojvodina, is managed by the Vojvodina, or by the province and by the Vojvodina Government? Why is that a problem? You've never entered a way of thinking, not to tear up that unique system, but simply to advance one of its parts, by allowing Vojvodina to also have an impact on that infrastructure located on its territory. I think you're aware of how this entire railway infrastructure in Vojvodina has been devastated over the past 20 years. I think you have information about it, and the other thing is whether or not you're going to accept it, or present it to the public. When I read the Law, I paid particular attention to the problems you have defined and which you intend to solve. One of the key problems, so you even pointed out that the most important problem is that the Railways Directorate, established by the previous law, did not have the authority to adopt sublegal acts. I just don't understand what the problem is, why the government didn't do it, the government could do it automatically. That is, therefore, the most important problem that has asked you to come up with a new bill. How about the next problems? You don't define them. You're saying there's been a lot of problems. What kinds of problems? So there's no definition of which problems you intend to solve. And now you're saying why law-making is the best way to solve a problem? I just have to read you this sentence, it's very interesting. You say – adopting a new railway law is the only option for overcoming all these problems and the only way to make law enforcement practical and effective. In fact, you take this law down to the level of a sublegal act. With this law, you intend to enable the implementation and implementation of the provisions of the already existing Railway Act of 2005. So how serious this is, it's actually saying how serious you are about changing the system of functioning of public enterprises, like the government, or the business society, such as the Serbian Railways. There's no such thing as here, Mr. Minister, the real will for that kind of change, because if there were, we wouldn't be in that situation where we are today when we talk about public enterprises. There is no improvement, the nadal system is being maintained, and the costs of functioning of these public systems are only being increased. So how do you think you can somehow start this country's economy, how do you think you can change the functioning of this country, including the Serbian Railways? When you look at the Serbian Railways, what do you see? You can see that there's a lot of talk about Corridor 10, 11, that you're talking about 80, 100, 200, 300 kilometers of railroad, and you forget that it's only 10% of those railways that already exist in Serbia's territory. You are talking about a Russian loan, and there are obviously some differences between the minister and the general director of the public company of the Serbian railway company. Can these differences be characterized as differences between different political parties or can they be characterized as some kind of misunderstanding between the competent ministry and the Serbian Railways? I'll leave it to you to make a statement if you like. We simply need to note that there are differences in terms – which are going to be financed from the Russian loan. It's no small thing, if there's such a kind of misunderstanding between the minister and the director. It is only one of the indicators, how you are actually accessing reformation, reconstruction, empowerment, construction and healing of the Serbian Railways. This way can work very well, but that way only has one demagogue reach and it will be exhausted somewhere, as all previous reforms of good intentions, optimism and announcements have exhausted and there is obviously not enough power for a more serious reform, because reforms are not popular. Reforms are dangerous if you really want to get into the depth of these changes and into fundamental changes. With this bill of law, I don't see any fundamental change in the announcement. It's good, in a technical sense, that you're strengthening competition somewhere, that you're introducing the possibility of foreign railway companies, but it's only a possibility. How will the law be implemented? You don't give us much hope that you'll really, in that sense, work on implementing the law, because if it wasn't done with the previous law, why would it be done with this law. I repeat, the very way, the system of functioning of public enterprises from these companies does not change. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I would really like to draw particular attention to the fact that the Serbian Railways do not have a future in this way, they do not have a future like this country has a clear economic future. Sooner or later you'll have to break. The later it gets, the harder it will be, because the debts will grow to the point where they will become unsustainable. Today, when we talk about this big system, it is very characteristic of what the CEO of the Railways of Serbia said, and he is probably at moments of honesty -- Serbian Railways are not ready for liberalisation. This law just confirms it. What you state in the law, that you will bring the accompanying regulations, or sublegal acts within 24 months of the date of entry into force of this law, is exactly what it points to. You will hardly introduce any kind of liberalism in the management of the Serbian Railways. The experience we have with... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... By functioning the railways, it's actually telling us that it's just impossible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25789	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable members of the government, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, much has been said yesterday in this principle debate on the budget, so I do not believe you will hear anything new and epochal from me, but the work of the MP is to take part in the debate on this most important document, in fact, on a single country's personal map. What we could hear yesterday was that this budget was real and it was his greatest value. A real budget in this unrealistic or surreal state really has great value, and I have to admit it. You've announced a big turn, a public money management, a year of great savings, a lot of reforms, with a reason that this can't be done anymore. I can agree with that finding, but none of what you've announced is in this document, and today it's exactly 100 days since the government of the Republic of Serbia was reconstructed. It's a little jubilee, so the results are summed up, the results are, and I think the results, at least in the field of finance and economics, aren't too much to brag about. Here in the budget, the accompanying documents, fiscal strategy and economic policy do not see the effects of any major changes. The only positive thing, and for that I give you credit as finance minister, is that you put above the state guarantee for borrowing the public sector and this other hidden cost. But we're all wondering how it's possible that when you're actually cutting wages and pensions, you're increasing VAT to basic life supplies, to computers, in a country where the IT sector has been declared as one of the strategic deficits as much as 7.1% of GDP? It's possible because there's obviously no political power to actually cut costs this time either. When I say that there is no political force this time, political support has neither your predecessor nor the one before him, and I see that neither you have to go into public enterprises, that is what is crucial, in "Srbigas" and in others. If that were not the case, why would the request to grant the 200m-euro "Srbigas" guarantee in this assembly come in order to maintain liquid liquidity, and then change it by amendment, but not by purpose, but only the currency, so it is no longer 200m euros but $200m. Or why will the "Electropyrivred Serbia" guarantee be given for $100m, again with a changed purpose, and not for maintaining the current liquidity? I understand that VAT is part of the solution, but you could see from your predecessor's experience that an increase in rate doesn't give the expected results and you could have avoided that something bad that showed up, which is that the increase in the overall rate doesn't give the effects that are projected. At what logic will the rise in this lower rate give the effects that are projected? You know very well that this is a short-term solution, which will wear itself out if you don't do essential things on the side of the expenditure. Here the main problem is not what we think – I am a 7.1%) deficit that is projected, but a deficit structure, i.e. that this deficit can only be financed by loans from abroad, that old loans can be returned to new cheaper loans. Our proposal is for you to do it more aggressively than you have done so far, to add to cheaper loans this unproductive state property, so that the interest on these loans will not be eaten more than one third of the budget next year. The reduction of public spending will not be able to solve this budget problem. The expenditure will be reduced by firing extra employees, regardless of the deficits that are coming. Yesterday, you denied that 50,000 people would be fired, there will be more and more from this tense public sector, the wages will be cut, pensions will be frozen, but budget revenues will also be reduced. There'll be less money for private consumption, and that lack of demand hardly anyone can replace. In fact, none of these proposed measures, and this is a major burden on the budget, will not lead to employment growth in a country where the unemployment rate is around 25% and the unemployment rate among the younger population is up to 50%. Without the proposed measures to increase employment, there will be no progress. No one has ever been able to get out of recession just by reducing public spending, especially when there are real high interest rates. As for the reduction of wages, i.e. income on all salaries that are over 60,000 dinars, this salary law can easily fall in the Constitutional Court, since the judiciary is not excluded from the adjustment of earnings. The salaries are reduced both by teachers and doctors, but also by judges and prosecutors. It is a matter of days when someone will initiate a procedure to determine the constitutionality of such a provision. In order to keep the salaries as expenses under control, two laws need to be passed. One that would apply to the public sector without public enterprises and the other only to public enterprises. It's the only way to get paid under control. So, two laws, not this one you suggested. I wanted to ask you a question about your statements, I mean you, Minister of Finance. You said October 11th next, and now it's my question when you're going to move from word to deed. You said October 11th like this – state officials will no longer be able to sit on a few chairs and receive five full salaries from the budget. Secondly, their additional income won't be taxed, but it'll be reviewed and cut, we'll be very aggressive, so we'll cut or cut fees from the second, third or fifth functions. Third, retirement will be impossible to receive salary from the budget. Are you still standing by these points of view and when will we be able to see the first effects of these measures that you can receive from the budget only one receipt, that each other, third, fourth, fifth, will not be allowed and that you will not be able to receive with pensions from the budget? Yesterday we had one, mildly said, unpleasant, momentarily even pathetic debate about whether someone deserved it or not to get paid with a pension. So I'm asking you to settle this dilemma. The next thing I want to ask is – how long will the term "possessing privatisation" be used? It's just amazing that all the privatisations from 2000 to today are characterized as muggings. That's just not true. Is someone in the government against the very concept of privatisation that's one question, but talking about robbery privatisation is quite another. One third of only privatisation in Serbia was broken because it was unsuccessful. The other two thirds were both good and necessary and successful. I simply don't know where who was in the '90s and how he looked at Serbia and how it was then lived in Serbia and how it was done and how it was privatized and who then made the first, second, third and other million favorite currencies, stamps, in these areas. It is fair to say that the social gross product has been increased four times over the past 12 years, and that salaries and pensions have been increased 10 times, and that is the result of these 12 years, which is often pushed under the carpet, but is therefore repeatedly pointed out that there has been a robbery privatisation here. It's just that these things don't stand and they're not true. I have one more question for you. Yesterday, the Prime Minister said that this budget is approaching the EU. Can you please explain to me how? I tried to understand this statement that, apart from being political, there is no standoff in reality, but, here, in what part of this budget is the EU approaching us, when the deficits are already coming in the afternoon that we are a little further from the EU, as the first intergovernmental conference, by all indications, is delayed by March, and I think someone would like to postpone those elections announced for March, but okay? That's my political attitude. Not everyone has to agree with him. Once again to the public sector, whenever we all complain about it, and now here we have finally got the numbers how many people do it in the public sector, it's part of the concept of providing existence and we don't need to lose sight of it. As my fellow MP, Bojan Djuric, said yesterday that it is bad to create a confrontation between public and private employees, I fully agree. It is economically bad, politically harmful, and socially very, very bad, not to say disastrously, just as it is bad to create a confrontation between employees and pensioners, so we certainly do not need this other kind of confrontation between the public and the private sector. We won't vote on this budget in the voting day, as you heard, and I won't ask Minister Radulovic any questions at this time, I'll wait for the bankruptcy law to enter the procedure, so we'll have something to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25790	Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, I am sorry that the proposer of this amendment is not present, may give some further explanations. One brief analysis of this amendment. The amendment mainly supports what is set out in the proposal, as proposed by the parliamentary group, or 130 SNS MPs. However, there is also one newspaper in this amendment in paragraph 2. Namely, the proposer suggests that executive trusts in an executive procedure in which the executive debtor, Republika Srpska, is obliged to require the Chamber to determine the executioner to whom a proposal for enforcement will be submitted on the basis of a credible statement. The executing chamber shall verify within a period of no more than 15 days with a competent court, in which a decision on enforcement under which enforcement is proposed, whether the financial claim of the executive trustee in the previous proceedings before the court is settled. Here there is God's concern for state property, for the property of the Republic of Serbia, and at first glance it looks that way. However, there is no need to particularly protect the debtor of the Republic of Serbia in a situation where the amendment and addition of this member, submitted and reasoned by the proposed representative, states that the executive trustee, along with a proposal for execution, is obliged to submit evidence of the warning of the executive debtor and that this proves the recommended consignment to the address of the executive debtor. I think this is quite enough to protect the executive debtor, to show him one correctness so that there is no unpleasant procedure of execution, census, sales, etc. and to unnecessary costs. In addition, to protect the debtors of the Republic of Serbia, I think, and I am not sure that it is in accordance with the Constitution, because Article 86. The constitution predicts that all forms of property enjoy equal protection, so I'm not sure that this is in accordance with the Constitution. At first glance, I say this looks and it is thus explained by the promoter that this is being protected by the Republic of Serbia, or by the debtor of the Republic of Serbia. However, it is practically here that the executive trustee is protected, because the problem is the trustee if he submits a request for execution without reliably determining whether that debt really exists. All expenses will be borne by the trustee. So this doesn't protect the debtor at all, because the debtor wouldn't bear the costs if he settled his debt, and that's no problem proving it here, since it states that such evidence is required by the competent court. So the executive debtor would certainly have such evidence, that is, in this case the Republic of Serbia, and that was not his problem, but the executive trustee's problem. For these reasons, I propose that this amendment be rejected and that the proposal of the Proposer be fully accepted. Thank you. Dear Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, I am sorry that the proposer of this amendment is not present, may give some further explanations. One brief analysis of this amendment. The amendment mainly supports what is set out in the proposal, as proposed by the parliamentary group, or 130 SNS MPs. However, there is also one newspaper in this amendment in paragraph 2. Namely, the proposer suggests that executive trusts in an executive procedure in which the executive debtor, Republika Srpska, is obliged to require the Chamber to determine the executioner to whom a proposal for enforcement will be submitted on the basis of a credible statement. The executing chamber shall verify within a period of no more than 15 days with a competent court, in which a decision on enforcement under which enforcement is proposed, whether the financial claim of the executive trustee in the previous proceedings before the court is settled. Here there is God's concern for state property, for the property of the Republic of Serbia, and at first glance it looks that way. However, there is no need to particularly protect the debtor of the Republic of Serbia in a situation where the amendment and addition of this member, submitted and reasoned by the proposed representative, states that the executive trustee, along with a proposal for execution, is obliged to submit evidence of the warning of the executive debtor and that this proves the recommended consignment to the address of the executive debtor. I think this is quite enough to protect the executive debtor, to show him one correctness so that there is no unpleasant procedure of execution, census, sales, etc. and to unnecessary costs. In addition, to protect the debtors of the Republic of Serbia, I think, and I am not sure that it is in accordance with the Constitution, because Article 86. The constitution predicts that all forms of property enjoy equal protection, so I'm not sure that this is in accordance with the Constitution. At first glance, I say this looks and it is thus explained by the promoter that this is being protected by the Republic of Serbia, or by the debtor of the Republic of Serbia. However, it is practically here that the executive trustee is protected, because the problem is the trustee if he submits a request for execution without reliably determining whether that debt really exists. All expenses will be borne by the trustee. So this doesn't protect the debtor at all, because the debtor wouldn't bear the costs if he settled his debt, and that's no problem proving it here, since it states that such evidence is required by the competent court. So the executive debtor would certainly have such evidence, that is, in this case the Republic of Serbia, and that was not his problem, but the executive trustee's problem. For these reasons, I propose that this amendment be rejected and that the proposal of the Proposer be fully accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25792	Minister Mrkonjic, please. Minister Mrkonjic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25795	The word has the People's MP Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25796	Biljana Pantić Pija. Biljana Pantić Pija.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25798	To thank Mr. Jeremic, whom I did not thank, I now have to discuss again. Mrs. Popovic, you're a beautiful young woman. These guys are laughing, punks, they know what I mean. Don't talk to me about human policy. In 2008, I became a minister. All these young people, except for this woman at the end of the beautiful one, were then the assistants of Mr. Ilic and the rest are mine today. So, my approach, except maybe you, I think the MPs here and all the citizens of Serbia who know me know me. I've never run a policy of politics in human policy. Three assistants have been from Velina's government since 2004-2008, and are now here. As far as personnel policy is concerned, of course there's a lot I don't agree with, to take it off the agenda, but if one party in this country has such power, then let's run it, what's the problem? He's responsible for the personnel he's setting up and I've accepted it, but the traffic minister is still me. I'm responsible for all these people. You only mentioned one here that doesn't matter to me right now. For all those people you're talking about, I'm responsible, as I've been responsible for both the Director of the Aviation Agency and the Directorate and for JAT for four years, etc. If you see any problems here, then I really accept your every criticism. Staff policy, the kind you're talking about, don't give me credit. All your reviews are good, I accept them. I don't accept one. Well, Mr. Bauer said -- we have to take the first step to change something on the railroad. Of course, governments before me have had that opportunity since 2000, so they haven't worked. Nothing's new about detachment of infrastructure from traffic. Europe has been doing this for years. We didn't do it. We started last term, and here we go. So that's where my optimism is from. We're going to separate the infrastructure traffic, we're going to bring a five-year national investment programme into a rail infrastructure that's catastrophic, and we're going to finally have after so many years, and I'm 40 years in the railway, the first time a law is going to say what and how much we need to spend to get that infrastructure, to get those tracks to some level. That's where my optimism is from. It's a very important fact. You've already praised and I agree with that, we have the opportunity to open the market for other operators, not only to drive the railways. There are also people in Serbia today who have means of driving and who compete, but can't for these or those reasons. So that's another thing that this law provides, that everyone participates in the free market, so to speak, in the market for these rail services that today requires our economy. It's another important thing. The third important thing, this railway directorate, that Mr. Bauer also spoke well of, she has this regulatory role in the realisation of these projects and the railway programme itself. These are news that are quite enough for this law, which we have not had so far, to bring us closer to the EU. These are possibilities and preconditions. I agree with you, a law that we don't respect doesn't mean anything, but I'm going to try as long as I'm a minister that we respect this law as much as possible and that what we're talking about here today and what we're going to talk about today is really starting to live. We all know what the situation is in the railways, and I won't be coming back for years, because as the oldest among you here and as an expert, I have the highest responsibility, because it's been talked about for years. We didn't do it, unfortunately. On Corridor 10, which you're talking about, by rail, there's half a line of one-wheel tracks, which is unimaginable. It's not the worst track from Saturday to New Now, it's only one track, but it's a flat terrain so it looks relatively good. It's the worst railroad from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. It's like the wild west out there, like Texas. There's little bandits out there and the train can't get through. That's what was inherited from the past on the railroad. I'm not defending the railroad. We need to change that, and that's why we took that Russian loan and that's why we took the Czech loan. It's not true that you don't know what's in the Russian loan, five, six, seven projects. What's the big deal? Someone might think there's something a third person needs, but a decision about it will be made by the government and we'll know exactly what project we're entering. Besides, one thing is just as important. I'll tell you right now, while I'm on credit, Europe, and you know it, most of you know it very well, today both European banks that are most convincingly favourably giving loans to the entire master's line. So it's a European project and it's logical. It's Turkey's link to the EU. It's Europe's interest, and that's why the money problem isn't, the problem is in other things. We don't have ready documentation, projects, etc. That's why what's going on over the papers is happening, we're fighting over what and how to do it. The other nothing. Anyone can think what they want, but the government of the Republic of Serbia will bring a view of what funds they will fund. Today, in addition to the Russian loan, we have two large loans of one hundred million from the EBRD, which are financed by the vehicles. We gave the first trains right in Vojvodina. When we talk about this Belgrade-Budapest railway, it will probably be, in my opinion, the first to enter into work. Remember, we haven't built a track, not a mile of track in the last 20 years. What railroad were we building? We started Valjevo-Losnica and stopped. None, we're just repairing and maintaining what we have as it is. This law will create preconditions to change that too. Therefore, investment in railways is not disputed, but we must prepare for it humanely and professionally, and therefore optimism is both my and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia in the programme of modernising Serbian railways. It is one of the biggest projects in Serbia today. That's why I accept the criticism, everything you said. As far as I'm concerned, I accept. Don't realize now that I'm like something angry, no, except for this personnel structure. Here, these are these young people sitting right here next to me. Among them, I hope, is the future minister. They're not members of any party, and even that young lady at the end, my chief of staff. They're all young people. Even she was the head of Mr. Boris Tadic's protocol. So I'm not a man who absolutely doesn't rely on people who know something. Thank you very much. To thank Mr. Jeremic, whom I did not thank, I now have to discuss again. Mrs. Popovic, you're a beautiful young woman. These guys are laughing, punks, they know what I mean. Don't talk to me about human policy. In 2008, I became a minister. All these young people, except for this woman at the end of the beautiful one, were then the assistants of Mr. Ilic and the rest are mine today. So, my approach, except maybe you, I think the MPs here and all the citizens of Serbia who know me know me. I've never run a policy of politics in human policy. Three assistants have been from Velina's government since 2004-2008, and are now here. As far as personnel policy is concerned, of course there's a lot I don't agree with, to take it off the agenda, but if one party in this country has such power, then let's run it, what's the problem? He's responsible for the personnel he's setting up and I've accepted it, but the traffic minister is still me. I'm responsible for all these people. You only mentioned one here that doesn't matter to me right now. For all those people you're talking about, I'm responsible, as I've been responsible for both the Director of the Aviation Agency and the Directorate and for JAT for four years, etc. If you see any problems here, then I really accept your every criticism. Staff policy, the kind you're talking about, don't give me credit. All your reviews are good, I accept them. I don't accept one. Well, Mr. Bauer said -- we have to take the first step to change something on the railroad. Of course, governments before me have had that opportunity since 2000, so they haven't worked. Nothing's new about detachment of infrastructure from traffic. Europe has been doing this for years. We didn't do it. We started last term, and here we go. So that's where my optimism is from. We're going to separate the infrastructure traffic, we're going to bring a five-year national investment programme into a rail infrastructure that's catastrophic, and we're going to finally have after so many years, and I'm 40 years in the railway, the first time a law is going to say what and how much we need to spend to get that infrastructure, to get those tracks to some level. That's where my optimism is from. It's a very important fact. You've already praised and I agree with that, we have the opportunity to open the market for other operators, not only to drive the railways. There are also people in Serbia today who have means of driving and who compete, but can't for these or those reasons. So that's another thing that this law provides, that everyone participates in the free market, so to speak, in the market for these rail services that today requires our economy. It's another important thing. The third important thing, this railway directorate, that Mr. Bauer also spoke well of, she has this regulatory role in the realisation of these projects and the railway programme itself. These are news that are quite enough for this law, which we have not had so far, to bring us closer to the EU. These are possibilities and preconditions. I agree with you, a law that we don't respect doesn't mean anything, but I'm going to try as long as I'm a minister that we respect this law as much as possible and that what we're talking about here today and what we're going to talk about today is really starting to live. We all know what the situation is in the railways, and I won't be coming back for years, because as the oldest among you here and as an expert, I have the highest responsibility, because it's been talked about for years. We didn't do it, unfortunately. On Corridor 10, which you're talking about, by rail, there's half a line of one-wheel tracks, which is unimaginable. It's not the worst track from Saturday to New Now, it's only one track, but it's a flat terrain so it looks relatively good. It's the worst railroad from Nis to Dimitrovgrad. It's like the wild west out there, like Texas. There's little bandits out there and the train can't get through. That's what was inherited from the past on the railroad. I'm not defending the railroad. We need to change that, and that's why we took that Russian loan and that's why we took the Czech loan. It's not true that you don't know what's in the Russian loan, five, six, seven projects. What's the big deal? Someone might think there's something a third person needs, but a decision about it will be made by the government and we'll know exactly what project we're entering. Besides, one thing is just as important. I'll tell you right now, while I'm on credit, Europe, and you know it, most of you know it very well, today both European banks that are most convincingly favourably giving loans to the entire master's line. So it's a European project and it's logical. It's Turkey's link to the EU. It's Europe's interest, and that's why the money problem isn't, the problem is in other things. We don't have ready documentation, projects, etc. That's why what's going on over the papers is happening, we're fighting over what and how to do it. The other nothing. Anyone can think what they want, but the government of the Republic of Serbia will bring a view of what funds they will fund. Today, in addition to the Russian loan, we have two large loans of one hundred million from the EBRD, which are financed by the vehicles. We gave the first trains right in Vojvodina. When we talk about this Belgrade-Budapest railway, it will probably be, in my opinion, the first to enter into work. Remember, we haven't built a track, not a mile of track in the last 20 years. What railroad were we building? We started Valjevo-Losnica and stopped. None, we're just repairing and maintaining what we have as it is. This law will create preconditions to change that too. Therefore, investment in railways is not disputed, but we must prepare for it humanely and professionally, and therefore optimism is both my and the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia in the programme of modernising Serbian railways. It is one of the biggest projects in Serbia today. That's why I accept the criticism, everything you said. As far as I'm concerned, I accept. Don't realize now that I'm like something angry, no, except for this personnel structure. Here, these are these young people sitting right here next to me. Among them, I hope, is the future minister. They're not members of any party, and even that young lady at the end, my chief of staff. They're all young people. Even she was the head of Mr. Boris Tadic's protocol. So I'm not a man who absolutely doesn't rely on people who know something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25801	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, today we have on the agenda a draft budget for 2014 as a continuation of the practically reform road that we started with the adoption of a set of laws relating to Serbia's economic policy measures. This reform road essentially shows that we have a lot of problems on this road. What should be supported in some way in terms of the proposal that the Government and the ministers have made is that the bill was made in this realistic way where simply in a completely transparent and true way, a picture of Serbia after 12 years, about how much we owe, how much we are poor, and how fundamentally we have the potential to get out of a particular crisis. When we talk about different types of type scenarios, Greek scenarios, Portuguese scenarios, Spanish scenarios, I think Serbia is simply located in a region where such scenarios are not possible, but what we can find ourselves in a particular situation is a very difficult social situation in which we can simply without control that in some way all political entities participate in the exercise of power. Then simply when you get into this situation, it is absolutely unnecessary for the citizens of Serbia to know which political party led you to find yourself in such a difficult economic situation. And it should be said that for the last ten to twelve years, just a lot of things have been pushed under the carpet. It should be said that since 2008, many bank guarantees have been given in this assembly, in this parliament, where practically SNS has never existed, has not participated in such a process. There's always a point to make. Now she has also taken responsibility as the main headquarters in the Serbian government for what is going to happen and what is happening now. What are we talking about here? So because the Serbian government has taken one major political responsibility for many of the processes that we often forget when we talk about Serbia's budget, which is the resolution of the Brussels Agreement, namely the relations between Belgrade and Pristina, and we also have the beginning of negotiations with the EU, i.e. the application of the EU's SAA. Both agreements and international obligations cost this country something, and such essential reforms require that you also anticipate certain funds in the budget. Not only in this organisational sense, which needs to be changed, but also in this sense, for example, Kosovo and Metohija are projected to have a budget of around 4.8 billion dinars for next year, and to lose an item in the budget of around 300m euros by applying the trade agreement of 1 January 2014. Therefore, taking into account these facts, we are going into reform, as a state, in the public sector, first to determine how many employees that number is. Then we started reforming the truth about how much we owe to public enterprises, so we saw that, let's say, when it comes to "Serbigas" we have part of the debt to banks, and we have that part of the debt that the state has given in terms of guarantees. That debt is very big. Of course, a debt of 800 million or 224 million, which refers to "Srbigas" and other public enterprises did not occur overnight and did not occur in the last year. I'm sure he's lying somewhere and he's piled up and it's been going from credit to credit, and at the time when we're talking about the credibility of the state and when we're facing reality the most and we're expressing the real budget deficit, we're just the country that loses that vote and gets in its own offer to portfolio more expensive and more expensive loans. She's talking about how we, as a state, can get very favourable loans and get rid of about 2.5 billion with favourable interest rates, the Fiscal Council simply decidently states that it's a great responsibility for those who make their statements in public, because that's why they're destroying the credibility of the state itself and the economy itself, because that's why you're getting more expensive and more expensive loans. Therefore, whether it is a position or an opposition, it should be measured in political statements, especially in those relating to the economy. This applies to all political entities. What's important is to say that public debt is high and it's really in this part so far the biggest, but so far this deficit has always been shown in a manner of hairstyled. For the first time now, we have a realistic statement, and to that end, it needs to be shown essentially, where we have the weakest, so-called neural dots. We said that, so we said that they were social enterprises, 153 enterprises in restructuring, that these are public enterprises, huge debts to "Serbiagas", according to "The Ways of Serbia", according to "The Railway of Serbia" and "The Galenics", we said that these are the most in the banking sector, we said that these are approximately large divisions relating to the PIO Fund. The part that's been attacked, which is that this budget isn't a well-designed agricultural fund, it's not well-designed subsidies, it's not well-designed, it's not well-designed, it's related to social categories, we can say that they're extremely irresponsible. For what? First of all, when we talk about social enterprises or these debts, these restructurings were not also created overnight, but they were laid down for years as problems that no one wanted to deal with, but each time the representatives of capital, bankruptcy managers, entered into bigger and bigger debts and treated the state property as if it were about someone else's and as if they had no responsibility at all about how they had the property. You did not have any practical condemnation of any bankruptcy manager, any representative of capital, which relates to restructure companies, that they did not lead in an adequate manner. Even no such representative has been convicted, whether in an adequate way he has had the capital of these companies. The second part of the story relating to public enterprises themselves, I don't think the state has ever, the Ministry didn't even know how many public enterprises in their jurisdiction are in debt, or how much these bank guarantees are. They had a framework, so it starts with the fact that they don't even know how many employees they have in their sector, let alone how much they spend. It happened to us, let's say, as a state, that at the end of the term of office of this assembly, in the previous term of 2012, loans are raised and then they are collected in one place and then they come, then the Assembly of Votes and supports all the guarantees that all public enterprises took and this session costs approximately 1.4 billion euros in government debt. So it was practically the way it worked in Serbia's economy. What we have in one place right now, we know exactly what we're up against. If that's the picture of what the debts are, it's so big, and it just comes out in front of the citizens. Citizens must know the truth at all times, to be prepared for all that awaits them in the future. Why are we talking about this? Because all segments of society are affected by this crisis. What we should never forget, which is that in 2008, means a year after the economic crisis, after 2007, practically made a budget that was missed by about 20%, because the wrongly designed items about what the economic crisis would look like, especially in Serbia and the region itself. It's something that has practically led this whole region to start that car, which we're talking about now, not they've been going downhill since 2008, and now that car needs to be stopped in some way. They have been stopped by certain measures and by practical knowledge that the public must be familiar with the truth. When we talk about segments where we felt that even this government and this assembly majority were supposed to conjecture their economic policy, then we said it was agriculture and energy. There's a policy being attacked here that should make it look like an investment in agriculture. Energy has been attacked, but what Serbian citizens need to know is that agriculture will no longer, in the way it was financed, financed, but that only investment will be in infrastructure, which is very important, such as the irrigation system, such as equipment that will be given to farmers, which will be able to use it. When talking about subsidies, which have also been attacked, in the budget, if you look at 81 billion total subsidies as part of the budget, then about 10% of these subsidies go to the economy, and 40% of these subsidies go to agriculture. Therefore, this story of little investment in agriculture is not true, but what it wants to form and implement reform of that agrarian policy is precisely an investment in infrastructure, so that in some ways these investments will create investors' interest to invest and create certain types of public private partnerships in this area. And what makes it necessary for the state to invest its subsidies in social enterprises, is that as much as it can strengthen the sector, to keep what is really healthy, so that today, with the principle of concessions and public private partnerships tomorrow, indeed, as many of these companies can privatise and enter into a serious economic reform, but thus, in some way, stop any fall, be maintained and create conditions for the next three years to start some of their growth. What we have heard most about energy is the question of "Srbigas", large debts. Now we have the opportunity to do practical work by opening new infrastructure projects in some way reforming this entire public sector. The development of energy is not possible unless conditions are met and conditions are created, i.e. the environment in which the state will be able to act extremely responsibly, not only to investors, but also to its consumers. This means that the price of electricity is a social category and that story is otherwise known to the entire Western Balkans region and practically all the countries in the region, and they all know that if you go by increasing energy prices, you practically affect the budget of every man living in our country and they know it in Croatia, they know that in Montenegro, too, they know that in Bosnia and Herzegovina, it's not something new. It is much easier to attack any reform or price increase, but it is very difficult to implement the real reform of this sector, for the simple reason that people who are really professionals in their profession and who have a lot to do, and when it comes to the moment when you need to streamline or repack certain employees, it is very difficult to assess who in which sector needs the most adequate way to make their full contribution. This is why the story of "Serbiagas" and not only "Serbiagas", but in general in public enterprises for which certain funds are allocated, very, how can I say, sensitive, sensitive, because if we wanted to see economically exclusively as the interest of the state, then we would say – sorry, but simply the state should in some way give up any guarantees, from any incentive and then come to simply having a disturbance in the work of the energy sector at all, and that would directly affect the consumers themselves. Therefore, in such areas it is necessary to be extremely responsible and to act in a manner that corresponds to all categories of society, but step by step. When we talk about the PIO fund, which is what we love most about talking about from one aspect and attacking why there's so much separation, I've been a little interested in what it's like to even manage the PIO Fund, which is the structure of the PIO Fund, and I don't think that more than half of the MPs are familiar with who the members of the board of directors of the PIO Fund are. He makes 21 members, of which the state has only two members appointed by the government. He has representatives of businessmen, has representatives of employers' associations, has representatives of both trade unions, has representatives of the pensioners' association and has two representatives of the government. The principle of chairing the board of directors of the PIO Fund is rotating every two years. Currently, the chairman of the PIO Fund is Mr. Orbovic, the union president, who directly affects the PIO Fund's policy. If the state wants to implement reforms, and the state is currently singleing out, the PIO Fund has about 600 billion dinars, out of which 42% of the countries fill that fund directly from the budget, and 58% are full of business entities through taxes and contributions that we pay. If the state really wants to reform the PIO Fund, then it needs its government representatives to let at the moment when they are to chair this Management Board, they need to implement certain reforms. And it takes one political consensus. It is not only necessary to attack certain policy options in order to implement the PIO Fund reform, but rather to create a principle of how it should look to fill the PIO Fund. We have one inherited policy as it seemed before and then all governments were automatically, no one wanted to mind the representatives on this Management Board, because it's very difficult to deal with all these problems, to get in the way of unions, employers, associations, and then we come into a situation where these employers live on fees from these boards, and not live in the real sector, or where these funds come from. Practically, this PIO fund becomes in some way an economic category, from which everyone somehow survives. Of course, it's not a good concept, and of course, over time, as problems have been inherited, these problems have always increased. They never came to a point where they needed to be solved in an economically sustainable way. Therefore, if the state wants to solve this problem, it must find a way and legal way, which should be brought here in the Serbian Parliament in one completely distinctive way, to make one consensus on all policy options, to make a decision on how to manage, because ultimately, PIO's property is the property of the state, because we are all responsible for such a situation in the state, and our fellow citizens, our grandparents and all those who are practically citizens of Serbia, who are financed from this PIO fund, and there are 1.7 million Serbian citizens. Practically, we need to find ways to do this and make it cost-effective and sustainable in every economic sense. That can't happen overnight. We need to make serious decisions about this, and we need to find a solution in an appropriate way. In the end, I would say something about the Fiscal Council and what the Fiscal Council said about this budget at all. The fiscal council is paraphrased and answers many topics in a very rational way, completely politically improbable, and many would like to put it in context and to both, supporting a particular political option. The fiscal council is a practical body composed of experts and to be heard in all these segments when it talks about what our country's economic policy should look like, but what the budget should look like. It speaks of the fact that all those measures that are adopted can be stronger, weaker, but that they produce certain economic effects, that is, results. Thus, the Fiscal Council believes that practically additional austerity measures are inevitable in these situations, that the path towards rationalisation of the public sector is inevitable and that subsidies and social benefits, which are part of the budget, should also always be greater, but they are aware that what is acceptable to society in implementing these measures, on the other hand, are always problems that are very difficult for all political options to tackle quite 100%. That is why he says an arrangement with the IMF is necessary, which is why they say easier borrowing is possible in 2014. Of course, we all know that there are good credit lines of the United Emirates, approximately three billion euros. Then, the Fiscal Council calls for responsibility, which I was already talking about when making statements in public. There are no easy solutions that we have heard in some discussions and that such easy solutions do not give effect over a short period of time. That's what the fiscal council says. Serbia's adjustment in the coming period will also lead to some changes. The changes over the next three years will also provide painful solutions. That's what the fiscal council says. What's main is to say that the Fiscal Council has no big problem with the reality that was projected by this budget. That's why all the political options here should really give a certain kind of praise to the minister who came up with such a budget proposal, because it's very difficult in some way that all the emotions that might be ruling in political life are driving us away and that one real picture that we all need together to stop. Of course, in Serbia's political life, it is much easier to make some sensational statements, which are short-term time limits. But what we need to say is that all Serbian citizens live on that budget and that these stories of taking money from doctors, professors, without giving it to anyone, that it goes into interest after that, they simply don't stand. First of all, a large part of the professors have received under 60,000 dinars. I'll tell you that in elementary schools teachers and teachers have fewer incomes, that the Belgrade university's docents have 60,000. So, all receipts of more than 60,000 dinars are included in regular and extraordinary Belgrade University professors, and therefore, in this budget, the general majority has practically come to the meeting that those receipts relating to projects that professors at the university have as one kind of giving, are not subject to certain savings, i.e. by subtracting from fees, or net income. All that is said here is towards the consolidation of public finances in this budget and all that we have seen is that certain results will not in any way be positive in some way that the citizens of Serbia will feel it now, but only in a year will we begin to see the results of these measures in that part that we will not be worse. It is important to say because we heard here yesterday in discussions that we will be getting worse and worse, that certain measures that the Serbian government brings are projecting a black future. Of course it does not stand, because infrastructure projects and investment in local self-government, which are practically through IPA funds introduced in this budget, show that a certain level of economic stability will still be maintained, that this level of economic stability in the future will give conditions that will trigger a certain economy through public private partnerships, through concessions, through the development of infrastructure projects that should not be ignored, because these funds will not be so small at all. Will certain countries of the East and the West put pressure on them? Of course, there are always different views of the East, the West, and the North, and of the various projects. It is important that Serbia participates in these projects. It is important that Serbia is interesting because of its geostrategic position, that it is interesting because of its potential, both energy and agricultural, and it is important that Serbia rationalises the general state administration and citizens of Serbia in terms of economic activities, that we must in some way reform and education systems and thus create new preconditions for future economic activities. One percent of economic growth is a small economic growth projected, but it's always better to design a little bit than projecting completely unrealistic and then entering certain asset systems that you can't control. That's what this government has shown through its responsible policy. Whether someone likes it or not, who used to live in a way that is completely unplanned, taking full credits without reason with high interest rates, it no longer exists in Serbia. There is now one final responsible policy, and such a policy is recognised by Serbian citizens. As a result, they also support these measures by the Government and, regardless of which segments of society will be at risk of saving, everyone together realizes that they must enter into the sector of economic activities in which the austerity measures must be implemented. Finally, it should be said that Serbia has shown through this budget that its citizens of Serbia do not want to lie. So it comes out extremely realistically in front of them and through such a realistic budget it will always have the support of all relevant entities, and Serbian citizens are always the ones to ask for an opinion. That is why this SNS bill will be supported in the voting day, and SNS MPs will actively participate in defining all those segments of this draft budget that should show what the advantages we are taking to creating Serbia's economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25802	I'll agree with my colleague. I think this amendment adds an additional commitment to the Chamber, as it predicts that the Chamber of Executive is obliged to check within 15 days with a competent court, in which an execution decision is made on the basis of which the execution was proposed, whether the monetary claim of the Executive Trustee was previously settled in the court proceedings when the executive debtor of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the chamber is not a party to the procedure. I don't know why the Chamber would have an additional obligation to verify whether the claim was settled, and if it's already settled, there's a possibility of a statement of objection. It's just that when he declares his objection, the court will decide further. I don't know why the Republic of Serbia would put itself in a privileged position when there's no need for that. Thank you. I'll agree with my colleague. I think this amendment adds an additional commitment to the Chamber, as it predicts that the Chamber of Executive is obliged to check within 15 days with a competent court, in which an execution decision is made on the basis of which the execution was proposed, whether the monetary claim of the Executive Trustee was previously settled in the court proceedings when the executive debtor of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the chamber is not a party to the procedure. I don't know why the Chamber would have an additional obligation to verify whether the claim was settled, and if it's already settled, there's a possibility of a statement of objection. It's just that when he declares his objection, the court will decide further. I don't know why the Republic of Serbia would put itself in a privileged position when there's no need for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25804	The word has Mrs Popovic, a replica. The word has Mrs Popovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25808	The word has Dr. Darko Laketić. The word has Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25810	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start from the beginning. So that's the optimism you're talking about, which was as characteristic of the previous government as you were minister, as well as the previous government. You keep saying something, we will, we will, and you will not determine that zero point from which something really moves and changes. You keep talking about some big hopes, big intentions, and we sort of keep hanging out. The status quo is a notorious fact, and if the status quo, it literally leads to one failure. That's what I was talking about and I said and I defined why it was like that. It is party management of these major public systems. You just didn't deny my thesis. It is indeed the greatest danger, the cancer of the entire economy and the economic progress of this country. One more thing, Mr. Minister. As you started answering me after my discussion, I think you have some kind of misbehavior and some kind of misogyny here. I really don't expect you to look at me in any way that I'm young, whether I'm beautiful or not, that's not the point at all. Mr. Minister, I'm here as the folk letter with which you are laying down. I understand that it is difficult to be a European, given that this kind of change was made during the walk. This will also be said to you by Mr. President of the Assembly, who did not find it appropriate to respond adequately after an attack by protected hooligans on LDP leader. So that's what we're talking about. You can't be Europeans if you don't accept standards that adorn Europe. Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start from the beginning. So that's the optimism you're talking about, which was as characteristic of the previous government as you were minister, as well as the previous government. You keep saying something, we will, we will, and you will not determine that zero point from which something really moves and changes. You keep talking about some big hopes, big intentions, and we sort of keep hanging out. The status quo is a notorious fact, and if the status quo, it literally leads to one failure. That's what I was talking about and I said and I defined why it was like that. It is party management of these major public systems. You just didn't deny my thesis. It is indeed the greatest danger, the cancer of the entire economy and the economic progress of this country. One more thing, Mr. Minister. As you started answering me after my discussion, I think you have some kind of misbehavior and some kind of misogyny here. I really don't expect you to look at me in any way that I'm young, whether I'm beautiful or not, that's not the point at all. Mr. Minister, I'm here as the folk letter with which you are laying down. I understand that it is difficult to be a European, given that this kind of change was made during the walk. This will also be said to you by Mr. President of the Assembly, who did not find it appropriate to respond adequately after an attack by protected hooligans on LDP leader. So that's what we're talking about. You can't be Europeans if you don't accept standards that adorn Europe.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25813	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I hope to be able to interest you in something concrete and serious about this budget. All these days as long as the budget story goes on, it's still today, we've been listening to both deficits, and GDP, and the IMF, and inflation, the drop in costs, fiscal advice, truth, untruth, lies and everything else. I just want to ask you one simple thing – where are the citizens in the whole budget and does someone take care of the man in this entire budget? Does anyone think about them? Will we finally hear in this House for this term of office the so-called A retired mother who will speak one word about the pensioner's position in the next year and in the coming years? Are we going to hear again "Mister Neeta" or the historical not to the IMF, which we have listened to for so many years? Will the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of social affairs address this assembly, I mean Mr. Krkobic, and say what will be the position of the people covered by his ministry? These are pensioners and these are the most socially endangered categories in this society. Is anyone gonna talk about citizens today or any other day? Will the standard of living after the measures that we adopted last week's budget and laws be better or worse next year? Will they live better or worse and will the citizens have to save again so that the state can spend? Is there also a country in the world that is rich, and the citizens of the poor or rich state that has a lot of good, wealthy individuals and that doesn't take every little bit out of the citizens' pockets to spend, to waste on the various unnecessary costs that this assembly has been talking about? You limited the growth of earnings next year, so the average pension will increase in Serbia by over 400 dinars, the average salary for over 600 dinars next year. Introduce VAT on basic life supplies, medicines, water and everything else. How do you expect an ordinary citizen to survive next year? Salaries will increase nominally, but realistically, if you take an inflation rate of 5.5%, how did you predict, with an increase in VAT on basic life supplies, on medicines, on what people have to buy daily, you may not have to buy a pair of shoes new, but everyone has to buy the medicine he needs, bread, water, milk, how do you think a regular man survives next year and survives next year? Has anyone in this House kept an eye on that? Have you in government thought about how a man will survive and if you have any solution to the situation? You don't or at least you can't see it from your budget. Since social security funds from the 2014 budget have been increased nominally, from 101 to 107 billion, by these 5.5% for projected inflation growth, which means that it will actually fall, how will these citizens survive, the most socially endangered categories? What about childcare? What about children's accessories? What about all the social groups that depend on this little help that the state is going to give them when the state reduces what they need to get again, and it increases VAT on those life supplies and on the drugs that they buy the most? Have you considered how many citizens by standards and the EU you are going to be at the poverty line next year for measures and for this budget? Is there any rational answer to give these citizens? No, I don't. You may have it, but we didn't hear it. Maybe you're saving it for some other discussion. What I'm trying to ask you is, are you in this country or are you in this government making a consensus with the IMF on the budget or should you make a consensus with the citizens, who are supposed to make changes, reforms, or save the country from the break-in they're going into and on which they stormed the train or pissed off Max in some crazy car? Do you need to make a consensus with them or with the IMF? I think citizens are the ones who bear in every variant the burden of anti-crisis measures or other measures you mention. I think citizens are the ones who, in any way, bear the burden of anti-crisis measures or whatever other measures you mention. You are constantly trying to avoid any debate about citizens, but you are already trying to continue to endanger their economic situation. It turns out, given what you're saying, that changes to the Labour Law are the basic problem of employment in Serbia. Just to amend the Labour Act, only to allow workers to lose their jobs as quickly as possible and the issue of employment in Serbia will be resolved immediately. I don't think that's the way and I don't think the Labour Act is a problem, I don't think the problem is in any other area, I think the problem is that it's a bad policy that's being run. We thought that from the budget of last year made by Mladjan Dinkic, the measures he was taking would change. Nothing's changed. And from the great, powerful stories, everything will come down to the same thing. We expect you to hear concrete measures, how will the citizens live, when they will live better, will they even live better, and when will you stop putting your hand in your pocket? The Democratic Party of Serbia cannot vote for this budget, because we think it is completely inadequate, bad and not in line with the needs of citizens, and we believe that you should make a consensus with the citizens of Serbia and with those who want good for this Serbia rather than with the IMF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25814	President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, I will be brief, recommend that the proposed amendment be rejected, for the reason I consider that the precondition for the start of the execution is just checking whether the financial claim of the executive trustee in the proceedings before the court is settled. So that's how I think the amendment itself is too high. Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable fellow MPs, I will be brief, recommend that the proposed amendment be rejected, for the reason I consider that the precondition for the start of the execution is just checking whether the financial claim of the executive trustee in the proceedings before the court is settled. So that's how I think the amendment itself is too high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25816	Truth be told, you're wrong about this, because I'm one of the few people who reacted, but it doesn't matter. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Truth be told, you're wrong about this, because I'm one of the few people who reacted, but it doesn't matter. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25820	The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25822	I didn't understand one word you said, but it doesn't matter. When you speak and when you criticise, no matter how much I know all MPs don't have the same knowledge from the area I deal with, but then you have to have facts. You say, "You promised and did nothing." By 2008, I remind you of the numbers, no one in the leadership of the state knew what corridors were. The corridors have been talked about since 1991. Unfortunately, I was involved in all these agreements right in the area of traffic infrastructure. We made the first kilometers for these four years right through Vojvodina. We finished that famous highway. Why don't you say so? Now you get to Budapest, when I say in two hours, journalists will laugh, they say – The Dark drives at a higher speed, but you arrive. Why don't you say so? How did you travel until then? We made this one bridge, then the second bridge, then the third bridge, with great effort and great problems. We've secured funds for the entire corridor 10. We've secured a billion and 200 million. The entire Corridor 10 is being built. Slow, there's a problem, but we're building. We're trying to hire our operatives, our people. Why don't you say so? Why don't you say -- well done, that government did it? Not Mrkonjic, not me, but the government. The whole government and the state are behind these projects. That's the point. That's true. It's going slow, Mrako doesn't know how to do it, take the other one. Here, there are young people here. Tomorrow they can sit in my seat and the end. You always criticize and here you say – you said I was a beautiful woman. Well, I said what now? I guess I can say that, too. Thank you. I didn't understand one word you said, but it doesn't matter. When you speak and when you criticise, no matter how much I know all MPs don't have the same knowledge from the area I deal with, but then you have to have facts. You say, "You promised and did nothing." By 2008, I remind you of the numbers, no one in the leadership of the state knew what corridors were. The corridors have been talked about since 1991. Unfortunately, I was involved in all these agreements right in the area of traffic infrastructure. We made the first kilometers for these four years right through Vojvodina. We finished that famous highway. Why don't you say so? Now you get to Budapest, when I say in two hours, journalists will laugh, they say – The Dark drives at a higher speed, but you arrive. Why don't you say so? How did you travel until then? We made this one bridge, then the second bridge, then the third bridge, with great effort and great problems. We've secured funds for the entire corridor 10. We've secured a billion and 200 million. The entire Corridor 10 is being built. Slow, there's a problem, but we're building. We're trying to hire our operatives, our people. Why don't you say so? Why don't you say -- well done, that government did it? Not Mrkonjic, not me, but the government. The whole government and the state are behind these projects. That's the point. That's true. It's going slow, Mrako doesn't know how to do it, take the other one. Here, there are young people here. Tomorrow they can sit in my seat and the end. You always criticize and here you say – you said I was a beautiful woman. Well, I said what now? I guess I can say that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25825	Respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Chairman, Mr Minister, the debate on the budget is the most interesting debate during the term of the MP. First of all, the most important law. To me, this is the ninth budget to be discussed. Mr. Secretary, this is the first, and I hope that after today's debate, we can still move some things to the better. Mr. Minister, Pasic told Serbs in time that they might be a small nation, but that there is no bigger than Carigrad to Vienna. So is our budget. He may be small, but we don't have a bigger one right now. Let me tell you something comforting. However you put together this budget and whoever created it in Serbia at this time would not be good and could not satisfy all our wishes and all our needs. I respect that you have tried between reality and desire to find and make an objective compromise. Certainly, as my respected colleague Velimir Stanojevic said in his discussion yesterday, this budget is the result of extortion and the result of an objectively difficult moment. Are we all going to talk about Serbian citizens? We're all talking about Serbian citizens and we're all talking about the citizens of Serbia, and we're all trying to find in this budget some of our own political points. Mr. Minister, when you were announced as the new minister in the government, I, as a professor, paid first attention to your education. At the time I was told, I would be a little plastic in that explanation because of the citizens of Serbia, that your education is really respectable, but that in our dialogue it looks like this. When you and I sit down and exchange opinions, it is your duty to leave with your opinion. I'm going as a professor, using a method of heruistic conversation today to try to convince you to leave here with a partial opinion, just one question and one problem, which I think we can solve. Namely, I'm an MP from Somboro. It's a city north of Serbia. It was a city that was a free royal city at a time when Belgrade was a Turkish cassaba and it was on the periphery of the empire. At the time Sombor had more residents than Belgrade, and until today he remained known in all European countries as a cultural capital, or as we like to call him in Bacakh, Serbian Heidelberg, certainly if Novi Sad is Serbian Athens, Sombor is Serbian Heidelberg. Our anthem, “God of Justice, ” was also created in that city. It's a city that has given seven academics, several patriarchs and we're proud of everything he represents. I return to the fact that you said this budget is an attempt to bring us closer to the EU. Here's a practical proposal, and I think you can see it right through the prism of the budget. Sombor is a town near the Hungarian border and we have a civilian crossing, which was mentioned yesterday by one of my young colleagues, also Somborac, a Sombor MP. We've got a border crossing on Backi Breg. It is a border crossing that reduces the road to the EU, therefore and practically, by more than 100 km. Since Europeans are very pragmatic and are very respectful of the cost and time and fuel they would certainly be happy to use and very often, this very border crossing for many economically justified reasons. Indeed, in all possible agreements, the Hungarian state has respected everything and, in turn, has done everything possible to ensure that the border crossing is reconstructed and that traffic is allowed in the manner that all EU rules prescribe it. There's no more than $35 million in funding. We have an amendment to this session. The amendment has been submitted by a colleague from the DS, so I would ask you, since there are four MPs here from Somboro, that this kind of vanity is because the amendment from the DS has been ignored. We will certainly support that amendment because it is in the interest of our city. We have to go back to our city and we will all talk about this amendment, because this really practical way to make something concrete in the budget and improve and allow our entire district, namely Serbia in a broader sense, to get one significant flow and one small but very respectable source of additional funding in this regard. That's what I wanted to practically propose in this budget. I wouldn't burden myself with some story of what's wrong with the budget, which is good, I told you at the beginning of my discussion that no one can make the budget so that it is ideal, that it is enough for all our needs, to satisfy all those that need to be satisfied. I respect when you said that he is, above all, realistic, that you have respected everything that we have to respect in Serbia at this moment, whether that is enough, we will see, but what we certainly expect you to do is to take some small minor steps, just by looking at amendments of MPs that are very concrete, which are very well-intentioned. I call on you to consider this amendment and really help a serious region and Serbia at all, to take this small step forward and make a big step, because the budget is not the funds that we have at the moment, the budget is the means we expect, and our needs exist already. So that's that gap that we're having a hard time keeping still, the year is long, and I respect that when you said you wouldn't allow budget rebalancing or at least you wouldn't let it easily. In any case, all your efforts are to admire and we expect you to keep your word until the end. We had different finance ministers here, we always crossed the spear, the finance ministers remembered in Serbia for a long time. They are not popular, but they are long remembered and certainly one of the finance ministers who deserves to be mentioned today is Mrs Diana Dragutinovic, who was an exceptional minister, who had always had a firm argument, in the gentlest way told the MPs, without any evil blood. It's a pleasure to remember all of us. Thank you for your patience for listening to me. Once again, I ask you to try to honor this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25826	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, in principle, we have pointed out that these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security are necessary and necessary and will certainly contribute to the resolution of certain situations arising from the enforcement process, because the enforcement procedure on the one hand can contribute to effective action and settlement of trustees in a timely manner within a satisfactory time frame. In the end, it can also contribute to the acceleration of business activities, but on the other hand, if it does not take place in a satisfactory manner, it can also impair the enforcement process. I understand why this amendment is not accepted, but I also have an obligation to explain why we submitted it. In fact, we understand that this amendment that we have submitted may not have a place in the article that is open. But given that we did not have consultations in the submission of amendments and additions to this law within Parliament, that we did believe that we would have made our constructive contribution and indicated that it was necessary for some other members to change urgently and that, as the promoter himself stated in his explanation, they would prevent certain abuses that are in practice. What was our basic motive for submitting this amendment? We know that the President of the First Basic Court addressed the Chamber of Executives, which pointed to the fact that there was a double settlement of the claim when he was an executive debtor of the RS, because there is not enough coordination between the Chamber of Executives and the courts themselves, so that creditors in this case who have a disposition to settle their claims either through the executioner or through the court make abuses and double their claims. I agree that there is a legal remedy, that the objection is if the claim is settled. Unfortunately, however, some creditors are not safe enough. I also agree that it's not the end. There is also a possibility that this claim that has been returned twice as calmly, but it is only a matter of time before it is known and whether it will be found out at all. Certainly, may this amendment be a guide to some future changes that, when we discuss, hopefully, the sooner the proposal and the work group model that is educated by the Justice Ministry, take this into account and consider. Thank you. Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament, in principle, we have pointed out that these proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security are necessary and necessary and will certainly contribute to the resolution of certain situations arising from the enforcement process, because the enforcement procedure on the one hand can contribute to effective action and settlement of trustees in a timely manner within a satisfactory time frame. In the end, it can also contribute to the acceleration of business activities, but on the other hand, if it does not take place in a satisfactory manner, it can also impair the enforcement process. I understand why this amendment is not accepted, but I also have an obligation to explain why we submitted it. In fact, we understand that this amendment that we have submitted may not have a place in the article that is open. But given that we did not have consultations in the submission of amendments and additions to this law within Parliament, that we did believe that we would have made our constructive contribution and indicated that it was necessary for some other members to change urgently and that, as the promoter himself stated in his explanation, they would prevent certain abuses that are in practice. What was our basic motive for submitting this amendment? We know that the President of the First Basic Court addressed the Chamber of Executives, which pointed to the fact that there was a double settlement of the claim when he was an executive debtor of the RS, because there is not enough coordination between the Chamber of Executives and the courts themselves, so that creditors in this case who have a disposition to settle their claims either through the executioner or through the court make abuses and double their claims. I agree that there is a legal remedy, that the objection is if the claim is settled. Unfortunately, however, some creditors are not safe enough. I also agree that it's not the end. There is also a possibility that this claim that has been returned twice as calmly, but it is only a matter of time before it is known and whether it will be found out at all. Certainly, may this amendment be a guide to some future changes that, when we discuss, hopefully, the sooner the proposal and the work group model that is educated by the Justice Ministry, take this into account and consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25828	The word has Mrs Popovic, a replica. The word has Mrs Popovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25832	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25834	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you forgot to say you're building a 10-mile highway a year, that roughly in those categories you're moving and any kind of reconstruction, revitalization of railway lines. You forgot to mention that. With this pace, I don't know when we will actually complete this kind of modernisation of the road network infrastructure and the railway network in Serbia. You haven't said a word about it. You haven't even said how much it costs to actually build a mile of highway, given the huge money that's invested in it. You didn't even say how much this whole optimistic story cost about the Serbian Railways and how much more we're going to have to pay to reach some bearable level of functioning of that system. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you forgot to say you're building a 10-mile highway a year, that roughly in those categories you're moving and any kind of reconstruction, revitalization of railway lines. You forgot to mention that. With this pace, I don't know when we will actually complete this kind of modernisation of the road network infrastructure and the railway network in Serbia. You haven't said a word about it. You haven't even said how much it costs to actually build a mile of highway, given the huge money that's invested in it. You didn't even say how much this whole optimistic story cost about the Serbian Railways and how much more we're going to have to pay to reach some bearable level of functioning of that system.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25837	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Krstic, without any idea of me entering your private life, but the plans your parents had for you are plans that almost all parents have for their children, to be good students, to learn everything they need and to find a good job with that knowledge. The job of the state is to create such opportunities. I think with this budget in the beginning, you're destroying such parent plans and you're not doing anything to let young people live their lives. The job, Mr. Krstic, is a condition without which young people in this society have almost no chance. Without a job, there's no dignity. No job, no plans. No family. Without a job, Mr. Krstic, there is no future, and over 300,000 people from 16 to 30 years old today in Serbia have no job, and half a million parents are waiting first in the month to give allowance to their children who should have earned a long time ago. Young people in Serbia are disgusted with politics. What do they get? The education that prepares them for work rather than work, a government that understands profit, but doesn't understand the weight of a young unemployed man and a minister who only talk about young people when they're a problem. In this budget, there is almost no hope for young people, although nominally more, but there is less real money for education. Science is on its knees, and young scientists are on their borders. Compensation, layoffs on the terms of the ministries that should create an employment environment. For the Ministry of Youth and Sports, so much money that the minister can do is welcome escort athletes to the competition. In Serbia today, 50% of young people have no job. One year waiting for work creates a scar in earnings less than 10 to 20% which is difficult to make up for for a decade. That is also what the entire EU is talking about. The problem is even bigger when it's put into a wider social context. Then you see all the depth of the problem that brings youth unemployment and that's the cause of many other problems, so the higher unemployment, that's the huk with the stands louder, it's national patriotism stronger. It's a crowd at the border to Canada, America, Germany, Austria bigger. Over the years, 30,000 young people leave Serbia with their belly after bread, for a society that will give them a chance, not a contract in their hands, but a chance. Our young doctors are good Slovenians, Germans, Finns, only we are not good, what is the government's answer in the laws and budgets that you bring? You're hugging your shoulders. Young people, be sure we're not in your skin. Stop for young teachers, scientists, educators, teachers. Stop for young doctors, even though their colleagues retire. That's what we talked about on Friday, but I'll say it again - a bad measure. Do you know what that employment will be like when you add to all these new requirements, approvals, an administration that will shut up for months like it does most of the local demands? It looks like an emergency, a protection, everything that's made young people sick by now. It's not my idea to hate problems. The unemployment of young people is dark enough for themselves. My desire is to put your attention and the focus of your attention on this problem, the causes and the consequences of our society. There is no assumption of long-term development, as long as we do not see in the budget that education is a priority rather than a promotional one. There is no tax reform and measures of the Ministry of Economy that can put Serbia on its feet until education comes first. The unemployment of young people begins with poor education. It continues by insisting on measures that do not produce any results and strategies that collect dust and end with a government that does not understand the weight of a problem carried by a young and unemployed man. You're in government, your boss, I think he was talking about the Singapore development model, the Shanghai development model. And they have long begun to invest enormously in education. Poland, a country that has passed through the transition very successfully. The primary and secondary school students at the PISA test are at the very top of the list. If there's any dilemma about where the money should be invested, I don't have it. Our education produces unemployment. Serbia's education system produces unemployment. We educate young people for 136 professions that do not exist on the market. They're not deficits, they don't exist in the job cipher. Young people who are educated abroad like you and are returning to our country cannot help because they have a problem with the nosing of a diploma. It takes us five years to adopt a national qualification framework and competence that needs to be brought into line with the market's study and teaching programmes. New times carry new generations. New generations require rapid reforms, rapid changes. The government is still stuck in its own bickering, intrigues and plots. The generations of young people suffer. We'll be eaten by time. This budget does not carry the changes Serbia needs to make. First of all, I think about education and I think about the problem of youth unemployment. The job of our Parliamentarians here in the Assembly is to regulate our society by law. It's our job to talk to citizens, analyze social problems, react and make their lives easier, not harder. This, Mr. Krstic, is your first budget, the fourth of this government. I believe that for this short time as a minister, you have become aware of the weight of this political environment in which you work and that the knowledge you undoubtedly have is only one part, and that it is actually the ability to respond to the pressures and blackmails of people sitting with you in government is one big part that you haven't resisted either. According to the Fiscal Council, you discussed a budget with them in October. You sent a second, quite different draft budget to the assembly procedure on November 2nd. In December, you changed your own budget. And then we here in parliament are going to adopt a whole third budget. With both first and second and third budgets, young and unemployed people don't stand a chance. So that Serbia would not be where it is, that a young and unemployed man would not be where he is, put for the same hundred youth and sports ministers who are legally driving the issue of youth unemployment, the minister of education who holds the key to the country's long-term development, the minister of economy, to open the topic of youth unemployment and education, in the context of employment. The whole of Europe is talking about it. We're the only ones who keep quiet. At least show concern, at least interest. We can support something like that. But a budget that doesn't stand a chance for young and unemployed people, we can't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25838	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS MP, who is also the legislator of this law, has made a decision to refuse such an amendment in the light of more than one reason. First, what I want to point out, and it is important for the public of Serbia, is the legislator of this law is an esteemed fellow lawyer and MP, Mr. Slobodan Homen, who is not presently in the hall, at the moment when the amendment he has given is discussed. We don't have a proposing of this amendment and a qualified man who would explain to us in a valid way and possibly try to convince us that the arguments he made in his explanation are so good that we accept this amendment. In parallel with that, the deputy head of the parliamentary group and the same party to which Mr. Homen belongs warns and asks the public of Serbia – where are SNS MPs? So much for double arches. Why won't we accept this amendment? Because he is a compilation of the amendment given by Mrs. Snezana Malovic, who before me tried to explain Mr. Homen's amendment, because this is actually about the same text as the opening part. So, "breathing a page" -- you just delete an introductory part that is more of an explanation and explanation than is the essence and you write what we cannot, of course, accept. We can't because we don't need to protect whoever he is. All debtors are equal before the law, and on the other hand, such a request to the Chamber would only extend the execution procedure for another 15 days, and we know that there is an idea and it is essential that the executive procedure be carried out as quickly as possible. At the end of the line, if the trustee submits a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, the debtor has the right to object, and if, of course, it is already charged, then all the costs of the procedure, the fees, the legal tariff of the person writing the complaint, will fall on the trustee's burden. So, no one's so naive, so eager to do something, and you're aware yourself that double charge represents a certain crime, so no one's in this country, I hope, still so much lost their minds, that it writes two executions, or that it charges, and then takes another charge, to be discovered and then prosecuted. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party, its parliamentary group, will vote against the amendment. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SNS MP, who is also the legislator of this law, has made a decision to refuse such an amendment in the light of more than one reason. First, what I want to point out, and it is important for the public of Serbia, is the legislator of this law is an esteemed fellow lawyer and MP, Mr. Slobodan Homen, who is not presently in the hall, at the moment when the amendment he has given is discussed. We don't have a proposing of this amendment and a qualified man who would explain to us in a valid way and possibly try to convince us that the arguments he made in his explanation are so good that we accept this amendment. In parallel with that, the deputy head of the parliamentary group and the same party to which Mr. Homen belongs warns and asks the public of Serbia – where are SNS MPs? So much for double arches. Why won't we accept this amendment? Because he is a compilation of the amendment given by Mrs. Snezana Malovic, who before me tried to explain Mr. Homen's amendment, because this is actually about the same text as the opening part. So, "breathing a page" -- you just delete an introductory part that is more of an explanation and explanation than is the essence and you write what we cannot, of course, accept. We can't because we don't need to protect whoever he is. All debtors are equal before the law, and on the other hand, such a request to the Chamber would only extend the execution procedure for another 15 days, and we know that there is an idea and it is essential that the executive procedure be carried out as quickly as possible. At the end of the line, if the trustee submits a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, the debtor has the right to object, and if, of course, it is already charged, then all the costs of the procedure, the fees, the legal tariff of the person writing the complaint, will fall on the trustee's burden. So, no one's so naive, so eager to do something, and you're aware yourself that double charge represents a certain crime, so no one's in this country, I hope, still so much lost their minds, that it writes two executions, or that it charges, and then takes another charge, to be discovered and then prosecuted. That is why the Serbian Progressive Party, its parliamentary group, will vote against the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25840	The word has the Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go. The word has the Minister Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25844	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic. Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go, Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25846	You didn't even ask me that, so now you're asking me and I'm telling you right now. You're wrong again, I'm sorry. I know, you're often traveling north, so how many from Novi Sad to Sudotica, so how many around Belgrade passes, so how many are down in the south, so that's not 10 kilometers, and that's what the country did faster. You keep mentioning Croatia, and you don't know 14 years people have worked all the ministers are in jail because there is corruption, etc. There is no such thing in Serbia for now, at least not in the corridors. So, they're wrong, not 10, 220 kilometers, the government has done so far on Corridor 10. She opened 60 kilometers on Corridor 11 and it's being built that's what the facts are. Don't come in with the numbers like that, say what's true, and then we can do something about it. So, the modernisation of Serbian railways, and you got that, we've already spoken here several times, the whole modernisation of the track on Corridor 10 from Subotica via Nis to Vranja and to Presev and Dimitrovgrad, so towards Zagreb, it ends up and brings it to 160km per hour, to be two-wheeled everywhere, to be electrocuted everywhere and for mixed traffic costs four billion and 600m euros. That's been 20 years. Since then, we've done nothing to improve this to this government now. Therefore, everyone knows that and it is Serbia's developmental chance and it only speaks of Corridor 10, not Corridor 11 because it is the Belgrade-Bar track. That's how much it costs, and we know it. Nine documents were signed by Serbia, i.e. the old ex Serbia-Yugoslavija, and the last one was signed by Mr. Vuk Draskovic five or six years ago when he was minister that what I am saying is our obligation until 2017. It's true and we know it. Thank you. You didn't even ask me that, so now you're asking me and I'm telling you right now. You're wrong again, I'm sorry. I know, you're often traveling north, so how many from Novi Sad to Sudotica, so how many around Belgrade passes, so how many are down in the south, so that's not 10 kilometers, and that's what the country did faster. You keep mentioning Croatia, and you don't know 14 years people have worked all the ministers are in jail because there is corruption, etc. There is no such thing in Serbia for now, at least not in the corridors. So, they're wrong, not 10, 220 kilometers, the government has done so far on Corridor 10. She opened 60 kilometers on Corridor 11 and it's being built that's what the facts are. Don't come in with the numbers like that, say what's true, and then we can do something about it. So, the modernisation of Serbian railways, and you got that, we've already spoken here several times, the whole modernisation of the track on Corridor 10 from Subotica via Nis to Vranja and to Presev and Dimitrovgrad, so towards Zagreb, it ends up and brings it to 160km per hour, to be two-wheeled everywhere, to be electrocuted everywhere and for mixed traffic costs four billion and 600m euros. That's been 20 years. Since then, we've done nothing to improve this to this government now. Therefore, everyone knows that and it is Serbia's developmental chance and it only speaks of Corridor 10, not Corridor 11 because it is the Belgrade-Bar track. That's how much it costs, and we know it. Nine documents were signed by Serbia, i.e. the old ex Serbia-Yugoslavija, and the last one was signed by Mr. Vuk Draskovic five or six years ago when he was minister that what I am saying is our obligation until 2017. It's true and we know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25849	Youth unemployment is very high and it's very bad. Good of you to point that out. However, the fact that this makes it even worse is that this case is already good three, four, if not for many years. We're on a brain drain last year, at the end of 2012, according to polls and analyses, I think it's the World Bank or some international organisation that's doing it in parallel, third from the back, I think. That's really bad. I think our education system should change and adapt to market economy, an economy in which the private sector will meet the real needs of the market, probably a large part of the export market. The first step in this direction is exactly what has remained in the last few years, and as far as education is concerned probably much longer, which is public sector reform, starting with the number, evaluation and method of paying teachers, teachers and others to the purpose of the different institutions in that system, and in the extreme line to introducing national tests and adapting programmes, including these university ones, which you talked about in the area of nostrification of diplomas. I cannot disagree with that, and I think that this budget, or fiscal strategy, begins with this government body that will start in terms of analysis and with public sector reform is the first concrete move in that direction, after several years of rest. As far as this finding is concerned, which is unrelated to this part of the story that was the center of your exposure, which is the problem that we plan to work on, it's simply not true that this is the third budget and it's different. It's identical and it's something that's precedentd to what was carried out in October, as far as we discussed last week, is identical to what we submitted on November 1st, not November 2nd. No fundamental change has been made to amendments, especially in the department you spoke of, regarding education as such. So I just can't answer that. I'll take the opportunity to respond to some other comments that were since I didn't answer. The question of multiple salaries, wages and pensions and everything else will be resolved by the middle of next year and will not be resolved on individual examples, demagogy, but will be solved by system solutions, system solutions that are not over their knees and will not mutilate any state institutions. How is this budget closer to the EU? It is closer by the fact that, like all other EU budgets, it depicts a real situation on the ground and not some fiction and is the basis for this, and that it will inevitably be one of the rappers, if not the criteria for approaching the EU, the starting basis for reducing the fiscal deficit, i.e. introducing order into public finances. That's something we've already opened through these bilateral screenings, the first from the finance ministry. This, in turn, is not a budget for the EU or made for the IMF, nor was the IMF mission in respect of the 2014 budget, but for 2013, as I made it clear. This budget has been made for citizens and has been made with citizens, along with consultations with all parliamentary groups as representatives of citizens, which is the same exception compared to earlier. The game is the case that, since we are, unfortunately, the fact that we are presenting reality and showing the situation as it is, it is the custom of everyone, not only to the IMF, but, in my conversations, and with representatives of the Russian Ministry of Finance and many others, I have been told – the time has come when you have to clean the house, to seduce order into public finances. And that's what we do. We've looked those citizens in the eye. Everyone who thinks well of Serbia, I think they must welcome it as a good and positive act. As far as robbery privatisations are concerned, that's not how I talked about it, so I'm gonna leave it. I hope I answered that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25850	Thank you, Chairman. The SPS parliamentary group agrees that this amendment should be rejected, in addition to respecting the motives for which the amendment is submitted, but the truth works also for the proper informing of citizens. The ministry of justice recognised the problem of multiple payments where the state, or the Republic of Serbia, appears as executive debtor earlier. It is not an indication of the Court of First Instance since yesterday, but for a long time, so that this problem as a problem identified in any case is the subject of an examination in any future law, and that of the law on enforcement and security, which will represent one comprehensive text and which will finally regulate everything that implies the executive procedure and everything that implies the basic objective and meaning of the law, which is on the one hand the protection of the interests of executive creditors, and on the other hand the obligation of executive debtors to settle the obligation towards executive creditors. What is undoubtedly true here is that the Chamber does not have party legitimacy, so as soon as there is no party legitimacy it cannot be burdened with any obligations proposed by the amendment or requested. I think it's something that should be basic knowledge and the rights of the executive procedure and that we don't need to make any comments about it in that direction. As regards the obligation of the Chamber itself, it can indeed be exclusively in any future law, and in no case in the proposed amendments, as requested by the amendment's proposer, or requested, which is ultimately imperative both in relation to the executive procedure and in relation to the Chamber as an institution to be covered by the Implementation and Security Act. Thank you. Thank you, Chairman. The SPS parliamentary group agrees that this amendment should be rejected, in addition to respecting the motives for which the amendment is submitted, but the truth works also for the proper informing of citizens. The ministry of justice recognised the problem of multiple payments where the state, or the Republic of Serbia, appears as executive debtor earlier. It is not an indication of the Court of First Instance since yesterday, but for a long time, so that this problem as a problem identified in any case is the subject of an examination in any future law, and that of the law on enforcement and security, which will represent one comprehensive text and which will finally regulate everything that implies the executive procedure and everything that implies the basic objective and meaning of the law, which is on the one hand the protection of the interests of executive creditors, and on the other hand the obligation of executive debtors to settle the obligation towards executive creditors. What is undoubtedly true here is that the Chamber does not have party legitimacy, so as soon as there is no party legitimacy it cannot be burdened with any obligations proposed by the amendment or requested. I think it's something that should be basic knowledge and the rights of the executive procedure and that we don't need to make any comments about it in that direction. As regards the obligation of the Chamber itself, it can indeed be exclusively in any future law, and in no case in the proposed amendments, as requested by the amendment's proposer, or requested, which is ultimately imperative both in relation to the executive procedure and in relation to the Chamber as an institution to be covered by the Implementation and Security Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25852	The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic. The word has the People's MP, Djordje Stojsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25856	Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Snezana Malovic. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. Jovanovic. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Snezana Malovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25858	Mr. President, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we have already received answers to some questions, since my predecessors have already had an exhibition on decentralisation of rail transport in Serbia, you will not blame Mr. Ministers for us from Vojvodina being generally extremely interested in the issue of rail transport, given the economic potential we see in the province and what Vojvodina once had in that area. Today, the system of decades of decline and extremely difficult condition is both in the transport of goods and in the transport of passengers. I would not say very much what counterpart Pastor has already said, but I must mention that when Vojvodina entered Serbia, that is, Yugoslavia entered the line of 2,200km. Of which today is only about 1500 in use, and of which is 500 and something in the corridors, and 1200 is in extremely difficult condition, or not used at all. The first train that was trafficling between Mercury and Manchester was moving at a speed of 56 kilometers an hour, and I'm talking about 1829. Today, unfortunately, the average train speed in Serbia is about 40km per hour. From Saturday to Belgrade, it was three hours and 15 minutes in 1926, 1989, about two hours, and today it is three hours and eight minutes. At the time, in 1918, there were 8.7km of railways, which was the most developed rail transport network in Europe. For 15 years since Vojvodina autonomy, there has been jurisdiction over rail transport from 1977 to 1989 in Vojvodina, 527km of railways have been remounted, all electrified, more than 10 electric locomotives, 10 electric trains and other equipment have been purchased. The zero phase of the train tracking information system was introduced, steam draw was abolished, more than 100 freight wagons were purchased, 20 modern passenger cars for up to 200km per hour. Vojvodina then had 44 electric locomotives, 10 electric trains, 94 diesel locomotives, 13 steam locomotives, 67 shinobuses, 161 passenger cars with 17,000 seats and 600 beds, as well as over six thousand freight wagons. Since you said we should talk about data, or to argue with facts, I think these are facts that few people can dispute. Twenty thousand passengers were then transported by train, which is extremely important for the transport of people in Vojvodina due to the configuration of the terrain. Today it's a little over 400, 500, and I'm talking about data on a daily basis, provided that some of these lines are actually being trafficked. We all know that the situation in that area is extremely difficult, but whenever in the past we try to initiate, first of all, organizational changes in the area of rail transport and we apostrophe that some level of decentralisation is needed because there are economic reasons for it, we generally get labels that it's separatism and it's transferred to some political field. I don't think I have any need for that because we're talking exclusively about economic coordinates. For us, rail transport, I repeat, has an exceptional importance. As this data shows, I think that in Vojvodina very well knew how to manage rail transport, and I don't see why this would be a problem if again in the future, I wasn't talking about corridors that aren't corridors, and through the Directorate and through infrastructure management, a certain level of these competencies were transferred to the province where then some priorities could be defined at regional level. In this proposal, there is only one such possibility that in the event that infrastructure managers do not have an economic calculation, only in this case they can transfer management to that infrastructure at local, or regional level. I also don't think there's a reason why it would equalise local and rural levels, since I think few municipalities in Serbia can single out funds at all and invest in railway infrastructure. Unfortunately, and that you are the biggest centralist today, which I have stated in one of the previous exhibitions and that you want there to be no local self-government, no province, when you go to Belgrade to get some paper, since you need Saturday for almost four hours, that wish will leave you. In particular, I have a neighbor who traveled from Sremska Mitrovica to Čortanovac for eight hours. In eight hours, you can reach many of the world's metropolis and back. Really, I don't want to be malice, because I know that this law is something that needs to involve us in European traffic, as far as rails are concerned, and that maybe the lawmaker's intensity is good, but since it's been done very little since the early '90s, is it because of the lack of funds, whether for other reasons, I don't know, but until we see concrete shifts in terms of these railways starting to build, really getting trains and getting from place A to place B, in some normal time, I don't see a reason why we would support activities, because the administrative measures, because the 2005 law didn't really bring anything, and this very little changes. We don't see what's going to happen exactly new to modernize this domain. The main problem in "Serb Railways", I think, is that those who decide on rail transport are not driven by trains, if they were driven by trains, rather than by their official cars, would probably be slightly different from that problem. I understand that four billion euros should be invested in order for corridors to be built, but there are really some things that have no justification for driving, hygiene, maintenance, etc., and I don't think that those who do so should really have an excuse. As for us from LSV, we've given some amendments. I repeat, I think they're constructive. We do not want to politicise, too much of this issue, but let us have a certain initiative so that a certain level of activity can be transferred to the province, and I am sure it would benefit both you and those who are today managing "Serb Railways". Thank you. Mr. President, honourable ministers, representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen, we have already received answers to some questions, since my predecessors have already had an exhibition on decentralisation of rail transport in Serbia, you will not blame Mr. Ministers for us from Vojvodina being generally extremely interested in the issue of rail transport, given the economic potential we see in the province and what Vojvodina once had in that area. Today, the system of decades of decline and extremely difficult condition is both in the transport of goods and in the transport of passengers. I would not say very much what counterpart Pastor has already said, but I must mention that when Vojvodina entered Serbia, that is, Yugoslavia entered the line of 2,200km. Of which today is only about 1500 in use, and of which is 500 and something in the corridors, and 1200 is in extremely difficult condition, or not used at all. The first train that was trafficling between Mercury and Manchester was moving at a speed of 56 kilometers an hour, and I'm talking about 1829. Today, unfortunately, the average train speed in Serbia is about 40km per hour. From Saturday to Belgrade, it was three hours and 15 minutes in 1926, 1989, about two hours, and today it is three hours and eight minutes. At the time, in 1918, there were 8.7km of railways, which was the most developed rail transport network in Europe. For 15 years since Vojvodina autonomy, there has been jurisdiction over rail transport from 1977 to 1989 in Vojvodina, 527km of railways have been remounted, all electrified, more than 10 electric locomotives, 10 electric trains and other equipment have been purchased. The zero phase of the train tracking information system was introduced, steam draw was abolished, more than 100 freight wagons were purchased, 20 modern passenger cars for up to 200km per hour. Vojvodina then had 44 electric locomotives, 10 electric trains, 94 diesel locomotives, 13 steam locomotives, 67 shinobuses, 161 passenger cars with 17,000 seats and 600 beds, as well as over six thousand freight wagons. Since you said we should talk about data, or to argue with facts, I think these are facts that few people can dispute. Twenty thousand passengers were then transported by train, which is extremely important for the transport of people in Vojvodina due to the configuration of the terrain. Today it's a little over 400, 500, and I'm talking about data on a daily basis, provided that some of these lines are actually being trafficked. We all know that the situation in that area is extremely difficult, but whenever in the past we try to initiate, first of all, organizational changes in the area of rail transport and we apostrophe that some level of decentralisation is needed because there are economic reasons for it, we generally get labels that it's separatism and it's transferred to some political field. I don't think I have any need for that because we're talking exclusively about economic coordinates. For us, rail transport, I repeat, has an exceptional importance. As this data shows, I think that in Vojvodina very well knew how to manage rail transport, and I don't see why this would be a problem if again in the future, I wasn't talking about corridors that aren't corridors, and through the Directorate and through infrastructure management, a certain level of these competencies were transferred to the province where then some priorities could be defined at regional level. In this proposal, there is only one such possibility that in the event that infrastructure managers do not have an economic calculation, only in this case they can transfer management to that infrastructure at local, or regional level. I also don't think there's a reason why it would equalise local and rural levels, since I think few municipalities in Serbia can single out funds at all and invest in railway infrastructure. Unfortunately, and that you are the biggest centralist today, which I have stated in one of the previous exhibitions and that you want there to be no local self-government, no province, when you go to Belgrade to get some paper, since you need Saturday for almost four hours, that wish will leave you. In particular, I have a neighbor who traveled from Sremska Mitrovica to Čortanovac for eight hours. In eight hours, you can reach many of the world's metropolis and back. Really, I don't want to be malice, because I know that this law is something that needs to involve us in European traffic, as far as rails are concerned, and that maybe the lawmaker's intensity is good, but since it's been done very little since the early '90s, is it because of the lack of funds, whether for other reasons, I don't know, but until we see concrete shifts in terms of these railways starting to build, really getting trains and getting from place A to place B, in some normal time, I don't see a reason why we would support activities, because the administrative measures, because the 2005 law didn't really bring anything, and this very little changes. We don't see what's going to happen exactly new to modernize this domain. The main problem in "Serb Railways", I think, is that those who decide on rail transport are not driven by trains, if they were driven by trains, rather than by their official cars, would probably be slightly different from that problem. I understand that four billion euros should be invested in order for corridors to be built, but there are really some things that have no justification for driving, hygiene, maintenance, etc., and I don't think that those who do so should really have an excuse. As for us from LSV, we've given some amendments. I repeat, I think they're constructive. We do not want to politicise, too much of this issue, but let us have a certain initiative so that a certain level of activity can be transferred to the province, and I am sure it would benefit both you and those who are today managing "Serb Railways". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25861	Thank you. The brain drain is a major problem for Serbia, and in the last many years, a large number of educated, professional young people have been lost. The main problem and reason why people go away is a weak economy and this weak economy does not create jobs that young people need to get into their careers and to be able to achieve the desires and aspirations they have. In the budget, since we have recognised this problem as a major problem, we have allocated four billion dinars to create a "capital" industry in Serbia, which is about to create preconditions for the development of companies, i.e. investment in companies that have innovative projects, which will mainly employ our young, professional people. This "venture capital" industry should invest in the capital of enterprises. When you have innovative projects from the IT area, but not only information technologies but also other industries, you usually lose money in the first few years to make money afterwards. Crediting, lending that such companies must repay, is not a way to support such projects, i.e. to build a good innovative industry. That is why these “venture capital” funds are needed. We are already talking to a number of funds that should be launched in Serbia. These would be private funds in which private investors invest their money, while the state from the budget co-invests with private investors and gives between 20% and 40% of capital. The industry should attract about 100m euros for innovative projects and for the employment of our young people, educated professionals and give them a chance for the future. I think it will be a major turning point for both young people's employment and the launch of a new cycle in general and the awakening of optimism that there is a future in Serbia as well. The new project was done somewhere along the model of Israeli models that proved to be extremely successful and we expect to realize it in 2014, that it will be a significant driver and motivator to prevent further brain drains and that these people begin to get a chance in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25862	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak as an authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party and I will talk about all the amendments that we have submitted, as they relate to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security, while one amendment is technically and it refers to Article 3. It is, as I said, necessary to amend certain actions in the executive procedure, introduce additional restrictions and therefore try to make the executive procedure more effective. It was highlighted in the debate in the principle that the law on enforcement and security was adopted in 2011 and that he then tried to make the executive procedure more effective. At that time, we faced a procedure that lasted over 400 days. I must say, even today, there is no much better situation than the executions carried out by the court. The law itself has been working for a long time, over three years, and one of the reasons why the law has been working on it for so long was the fact that in 2007, even before the DS was involved in the government, our country had made a commitment to a project that it worked with USAID to introduce the perpetrator into our judicial system. Since I was then the minister of justice, who proposed the law on enforcement and security at the time, I feel that I am obliged in some way to introduce you to the fact that I was not absolutely agreeing that the perpetrators should be introduced into our system, believing that we are not yet, as a society that seeks to adapt our legal system to European integration, enough staff to do so. However, after four years of applying that law or three years of application, we see that the perpetrators have significantly accelerated the enforcement process and, of course, there are some anomalies that need to be changed. Of course, when you introduce one of these new professions into our judicial system, you can't look at all those obstacles that can be encountered during law enforcement. I think it's a good thing the state recognizes certain problems and reacts to them. As I said in the debate in principle, I believe this should have been made more comprehensive, given that an educated working group whose mandate and task is to identify all the problems that exist in the execution. The amendments we have submitted have been constructive and have gone in the direction, since we have not been consulted, nor have we been offered to be a proposing, and I am sure that we would accept, improve the text and introduce certain restrictions, which we believe can contribute to the effectiveness of the executive procedure. I agree with the comments that the procedure for enforcement concerning municipal and similar services, where the authority of the perpetrators to the trustee's seat was envisaged, is not a good thing. It was shown during law enforcement that these cases mainly went to the executive offices in large cities, which is again in some cases, which we could see during the debate in principle, led to individual offices having tens of thousands of cases, which I also don't think they can be more efficient. What our dilemma is, as I said in the debate in principle, and now I'm going to repeat, is it possible to limit the distribution of the case through the Chamber of Executives if it is a trustee with majority private capital? Why does our dilemma exist? Namely, because of Articles 83 and 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 83. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says entrepreneurship is free and can only be limited to protect people's health, environment and natural wealth, as well as for the safety of the Republic of Serbia. Article 84 says acts restricting freedom of competition are prohibited. The same article prescribes that the rights acquired by investing capital under the law cannot be reduced by law. It is not only the existence of constitutional members, but also because there have been certain decisions of the Constitutional Court in this regard, but it remains to be seen in practice, if this law is passed, I believe it will, will take place and how will the Constitutional Court react. Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak as an authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party and I will talk about all the amendments that we have submitted, as they relate to Article 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security, while one amendment is technically and it refers to Article 3. It is, as I said, necessary to amend certain actions in the executive procedure, introduce additional restrictions and therefore try to make the executive procedure more effective. It was highlighted in the debate in the principle that the law on enforcement and security was adopted in 2011 and that he then tried to make the executive procedure more effective. At that time, we faced a procedure that lasted over 400 days. I must say, even today, there is no much better situation than the executions carried out by the court. The law itself has been working for a long time, over three years, and one of the reasons why the law has been working on it for so long was the fact that in 2007, even before the DS was involved in the government, our country had made a commitment to a project that it worked with USAID to introduce the perpetrator into our judicial system. Since I was then the minister of justice, who proposed the law on enforcement and security at the time, I feel that I am obliged in some way to introduce you to the fact that I was not absolutely agreeing that the perpetrators should be introduced into our system, believing that we are not yet, as a society that seeks to adapt our legal system to European integration, enough staff to do so. However, after four years of applying that law or three years of application, we see that the perpetrators have significantly accelerated the enforcement process and, of course, there are some anomalies that need to be changed. Of course, when you introduce one of these new professions into our judicial system, you can't look at all those obstacles that can be encountered during law enforcement. I think it's a good thing the state recognizes certain problems and reacts to them. As I said in the debate in principle, I believe this should have been made more comprehensive, given that an educated working group whose mandate and task is to identify all the problems that exist in the execution. The amendments we have submitted have been constructive and have gone in the direction, since we have not been consulted, nor have we been offered to be a proposing, and I am sure that we would accept, improve the text and introduce certain restrictions, which we believe can contribute to the effectiveness of the executive procedure. I agree with the comments that the procedure for enforcement concerning municipal and similar services, where the authority of the perpetrators to the trustee's seat was envisaged, is not a good thing. It was shown during law enforcement that these cases mainly went to the executive offices in large cities, which is again in some cases, which we could see during the debate in principle, led to individual offices having tens of thousands of cases, which I also don't think they can be more efficient. What our dilemma is, as I said in the debate in principle, and now I'm going to repeat, is it possible to limit the distribution of the case through the Chamber of Executives if it is a trustee with majority private capital? Why does our dilemma exist? Namely, because of Articles 83 and 84. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Article 83. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia says entrepreneurship is free and can only be limited to protect people's health, environment and natural wealth, as well as for the safety of the Republic of Serbia. Article 84 says acts restricting freedom of competition are prohibited. The same article prescribes that the rights acquired by investing capital under the law cannot be reduced by law. It is not only the existence of constitutional members, but also because there have been certain decisions of the Constitutional Court in this regard, but it remains to be seen in practice, if this law is passed, I believe it will, will take place and how will the Constitutional Court react. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25864	According to Article 27 and Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We'll be back to work at 3:00. Thank you. [[After a break.]] According to Article 27 and Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour. We'll be back to work at 3:00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25868	Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic. Thank you, Mrs. Malovic. The word has a folk emissary, Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25870	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Any of the authorised representatives who didn't use the right to report? The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Any of the authorised representatives who didn't use the right to report? The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25873	Your Honor, I'm advertising a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 107. You may not have paid attention, but I think the dignity of the Assembly has been violated, with all due respect to my previous speaker, my colleague, whom I greatly appreciate and respect as a young man, but for everything he's been asking the ministers, I think he should have asked questions to his fellow sitting next to him, who is heartily counseling him. I think that's where we should look for the main culprits for this, where our country is in a situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25874	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, when it comes to this amendment, what I would like to mention is that co-ownership relations are already regulated by one other law, the Business Society Act. What I was about to say is that in no way can companies that already have regulated and defined their co-ownership relations be in any way damaged or threatened by the existing legal regulations of the applicable law on enforcement and security. That's why I don't think it should be excessive to take any steps under that plan, they're simply too high. I therefore consider this amendment too excessive. Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, when it comes to this amendment, what I would like to mention is that co-ownership relations are already regulated by one other law, the Business Society Act. What I was about to say is that in no way can companies that already have regulated and defined their co-ownership relations be in any way damaged or threatened by the existing legal regulations of the applicable law on enforcement and security. That's why I don't think it should be excessive to take any steps under that plan, they're simply too high. I therefore consider this amendment too excessive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25876	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I want to point out the two facts that characterize this moment, and when we talk about rail traffic. First of all, rail traffic today in Serbia is in a very difficult situation, first because of the absence of serious reforms, and on the other hand, we all understand that we must use this moment to start serious reforms, if we are counting on rail traffic at all, as a very important type of traffic in the coming period. The second fact is that if we look at the last decades and invest in rail traffic, we have not had a more serious approach from one government to rail traffic, as far as investment itself is concerned, and in part we have participated as MPs, who have ratified certain agreements and loans, first of all from the Russian Federation, and then from the Kuwaitian Economic Fund, but also in harmonising and harmonising our regulation. I will remind you that in January, the assembly adopted the Convention on the Participation of Serbian Railways in International Traffic. Of course, I am not saying that I would praise the government in which the United Regions of Serbia participate, but simply, as someone who has been actively monitoring and actively participating in the work of Serbian railways for the past 20 years and someone whose family tradition in rail traffic has been measured for decades. I will remind you that the current Law on Railways adopted in the National Assembly in 2005, promised precisely significant reforms, promised that division that we are talking about today on infrastructure and transport, thus promising competition in rail traffic, which was meant to bring the desired quality, efficiency and safety in rail traffic. The law then once again promised a more serious management of railway property, and I will remind you that railway property accounts for about 12% of the total property of the Republic of Serbia, which is certainly not a negligible resource. The law then predicted that the name "The Railway-Transport Company of Serbia" would change to "The Railways of Serbia". Unfortunately, this last one is mostly fully fulfilled, and what I have led to today, we haven't had any major shifts. The first association when we talk about Serbian railways, and this was said by some of my previous colleagues, despite the fact that in recent years, a lot has been done by large involvement of people working in the "Serb Railways", on the regularity of rail traffic, the first associations are exactly delays, train shortages, cold, unlit trains in the winter period, a large number of committees, traditional users of railway services, first of all in goods, in freight traffic, who left the railways as carriers, and what certainly citizens know is one of the basic railway associations, are the significant subsidies that the state singles each year for "the railways of Serbia", and without which this action society could not work. So, it's clear to everyone and there's no one in this room, nor in the "Serb Railways", nor in the ministry, nor in the government, who would ignore the fact that the railway is in a difficult situation today, and it's good to know how difficult this is, but certainly that this difficult situation is not just because of some subjective failures, I would say first of all, that the difficult situation is on the railway and the reduction of the volume of transport and passengers, and the burden has been created as a result of reduced economic activity, reduced needs for rail services, but also as a result of poor organisation, poor social, poor staff policies in "Serbian Railways". Chronicly not investing in railway infrastructure is also one of the important factors that has brought today's railways into a difficult situation. Finally, I must say that one of the reasons why the railway is in this situation is the inapplicability of the Law on Railways, previously mentioned, which was adopted in this Assembly in 2005, which has certain gaps and which today's law we are discussing should be corrected. All of this suggests, and we heard some data, that today from 3,809 kilometers of railway network, 1,768 kilometers are highway tracks, and that only 32.7% are electrified. Only 7% of the track or 276 kilometers has two tracks, only 45% of the track has a 22.5-tonne axle load, while at 30% of the track this load is below 16 tonnes. The permitted speed goes 100km per hour to only 3.2% of the track, and the majority of the track, about 50% of the network, allows maximum speed of up to 60km with the exception of individual sections of the Belgrade-Shid railway, the Greater Plan-Nish, which are two-wheeled, electrified and on some stakeholders allow for higher speed. All other railways have outdated technical and technological parameters. Even in some sections of these tracks there are shares in very poor condition, so speed is often temporarily limited to 20 kilometers per hour. Railways are officially equipped with 480 locomotives, 8,500 freight cars and 550 passenger cars. Tow and towed vehicles are relatively old and unreliable, which does not rarely result in driving defects. This is just statistics. About 100 locomotives a day, and that's good information, it can run through Serbia's rails. In the last year, 320 seats in a total length of 535km were introduced on Serbia's railways, representing 16% of all railways involved in exploitation. The modernisation of railway infrastructure in the last decade has invested a modest 168m euros, and has been remounted about 136km. It is clear to all of us that these data do not paint an efficient system ready to become part of the European rail system. I am not presenting this information to criticise someone, to look for the culprit, but to remind and warn how necessary it is to invest in Serbian railways in the coming period. I will repeat once again that none like this government has so far taken so seriously into investment in rail infrastructure. A logical question arises – what is necessary to do today in Serbia to move the railway system from a dead spot, to become part of development instead of burdens and problems, and to become part of a major European traffic system, as we all say and what is the urgency of this law? In the first place, it is necessary to adopt laws which are applicable and which will be consistently applied. Secondly, it is necessary to invest significantly in railway infrastructure, then align the rules in the area of rail traffic with relevant EU regulations, as well as the use of positive EU experiences and ultimately the improvement of safety and interoperability of rail traffic. Of course, the listed components of the railway reform are interlinked and harmonised. When the law was passed in 2005, and today a very important and important place was just to raise the level of rail services to such a extent that they could at least participate in this large European traffic system in a partially similar or close manner. However, the first association when I talk about the participation of our railways is a discrepancy between Serbian railways and European railways and we are right on track, Italy's Pendolina, Simensov's German fast train, then a French TŽV that has commercial speeds of over 300km, without talking about some of the fastest speeds of 570 and a few kilometers for TŽV. However, I am saying all of this not to say how bad Serbian railways are, but how serious must we approach reform of Serbian railways and how much time we do not have to wait for this reform to join. Did Serbian railways have similar problems with European national railways over the past 20 years? Of course, it is also the experience of European railways, the EU railways can be a good indicator of what and how we should do at these times when we have finally decided to reform the rail system. The only difference is that they did this reform 20 years before us. Anyway, we can use their experience. Back in 1957, the European Economic Community began designing a common traffic policy. In 1962, a series of directives, recommendations, regulations and rules routed the common policy of the Single Transport Market. In 1975, the start of the legal regulation of the railway sector was established by Directive 75/327, which referred to harmonisation of the rules relating to the financial relations of railway undertakings. The main objective of this Directive was to improve the situation of rail traffic due to a significant decline in the transport of goods and passengers. At this very age, there is a huge expansion of road traffic primarily due to the cheap price of oil derivatives. It is clear that EU countries have been forced to take certain steps to make rail transport more accessible and attractive. This is exactly what I'm saying, in addition to repeating, subjective problems and problems that are characteristic of our country alone, there are problems that have been present both in the railways and in much more developed countries. In 1991, the modern regulation begins with the adoption of Directive 91/440. The main objective of this Directive is to establish a legal basis for the restructuring of national railways. The basic guidelines of this Directive are the basis for reforms of rail traffic in the EU. When we read these guidelines in Directive 91/440, we also know that when we compare them with the chapters and articles of the law that we are talking about today, that in our law, which we are discussing today, all of these guidelines have been incorporated and positive experience has been incorporated from the restructuring of national railways from the EU. I will read the guidelines set out in Directive 91/440. They relate to the integration of national rail systems into Europe's transport system, as well as to improving efficiency and co-operation with other modes of traffic, then eliminating the country's monopoly on integrated public enterprises, separating traffic on infrastructure and traffic organisations from goods and passenger traffic, the responsibility of the state for maintaining, developing and using transport infrastructure, guarantees for free, liberal, non-discriminatory access to rail infrastructure, all interested operators, as well as the state's obligations towards infrastructure manager in terms of financial liquidity competence. It is clear that these guidelines are the basis of the law that we are discussing today. The fact that this concept of a single rail system was not fully revived in the EU by 1991 and that, if I may say, overcame road traffic led to certain problems in the very functioning of the traffic system. There has been a disturbance in traffic security, the process itself in environmental protection is at risk, so in 2001, by publishing a second white book, the European Commission went into an even more determined fight to promote rail traffic. In 2001. The European Commission comes out with three packages of directives and regulations redefine relations between the state and the railways, division of rail operations in the organisational and financial sense, regulation of the railway network, certification to operators. Directive 2001/12 contains the amendments to Directive 91/440 and defines the obligation to form a regulatory body to ensure equal, non-discriminatory access to infrastructure and to all interested operators. It is in the Law on Railways, which we are discussing today, that one of the key places is exactly the regulatory body, meaning the Railway Directorate, which, of course, is the intensity of the law, that an independent body in one non-discriminatory way regulates the rail traffic market. The second package concerned legal and technical conditions of interoperability. The third package of directives and regulations refers to defining the measures and raising the quality of transport in international passenger and freight transport, as well as the measure to control the employment capacity of employees. As for the fourth package adopted in January this year, some will say there has been a certain withdrawal by the European Commission in an effort to fully liberalise the railway market. I would say that the European Commission is trying to find the best possible solution to the promotion of rail traffic at this difficult financial moment, taking all the benefits of rail traffic it is providing today. I say once again that in addition to our subjective problems in Serbia's railways in our environment, it is clear that much more advanced and richer countries have also had problems with rail restructuring, which only suggests that this is a very complex problem. In some previous discussions, we have unfortunately heard a certain level of banalisation of problems in rail traffic, once again, a very complex type of traffic. As far as the legal solution itself is concerned, it is clear that the intensity of the infrastructure and transport has been shared and I would not particularly explain the chapter concerning the infrastructure manager, where the most detailed details of the reasoned obligation, competence and responsibility of the infrastructure manager, are then the transport users themselves. As I said, Chapter 3 defines the obligations of the Railway Directorate, which assumes the regulatory role of the railway market, but also the role of regulators in the area of security and interoperability. I would touch another important segment in rail traffic reform, not diminishing the importance of the law I'm talking about today, which is investing in infrastructure. Repeated for the third time, the government is seriously investing in railway infrastructure both through Russian credit and through a loan from the Kuwaitian Fund for Economic Development and other funds and other European loans. Without serious investment in rail infrastructure, there is no reform of rail traffic. Of course, thanks to the encouraging investment in Corridor 11, the steel cookhouse of rail traffic in Serbia, but as it comes from the Zlatibor County, from Užica, I always welcome and insist on investing in the Belgrade-Bar railway line and I always point out that in just four months last year, a bar track from Kragujevac for Bar was carried around 40,000 Fijat cars. Citizens of western Serbia expect this government to invest seriously in Corridor 11 and railways, as well as travellers. At the very end, all the facts and very difficult situations in which our railways are located, aware of the complexity of the reforms that await our railways, but also of all the problems that all the railway organisations in Europe have, in much richer and much more medium-sized countries than with us, we from the URS will support this legal solution by expecting that in the coming period both the Government and the Resord Ministry and the Railway Directorate to make every effort to apply this law. In particular, I must stress that we also expect a high degree of seriousness from the management of the railway company in Serbia. I have to say, over the past years and decades, there have been a lot of gaps in the work of this public company and today, in the company of shareholders. This time, the state invests in the railways, no further excuse not to invest seriously in the railways. We expect from management a completely new approach, a whole new business philosophy, a single fight on the market, because it was a time when the Serbian Railways expected Serbia to give money for wages. Serbia's railway must earn its salary in the coming period, as is the law. We're sure that's how it's gonna be. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I want to point out the two facts that characterize this moment, and when we talk about rail traffic. First of all, rail traffic today in Serbia is in a very difficult situation, first because of the absence of serious reforms, and on the other hand, we all understand that we must use this moment to start serious reforms, if we are counting on rail traffic at all, as a very important type of traffic in the coming period. The second fact is that if we look at the last decades and invest in rail traffic, we have not had a more serious approach from one government to rail traffic, as far as investment itself is concerned, and in part we have participated as MPs, who have ratified certain agreements and loans, first of all from the Russian Federation, and then from the Kuwaitian Economic Fund, but also in harmonising and harmonising our regulation. I will remind you that in January, the assembly adopted the Convention on the Participation of Serbian Railways in International Traffic. Of course, I am not saying that I would praise the government in which the United Regions of Serbia participate, but simply, as someone who has been actively monitoring and actively participating in the work of Serbian railways for the past 20 years and someone whose family tradition in rail traffic has been measured for decades. I will remind you that the current Law on Railways adopted in the National Assembly in 2005, promised precisely significant reforms, promised that division that we are talking about today on infrastructure and transport, thus promising competition in rail traffic, which was meant to bring the desired quality, efficiency and safety in rail traffic. The law then once again promised a more serious management of railway property, and I will remind you that railway property accounts for about 12% of the total property of the Republic of Serbia, which is certainly not a negligible resource. The law then predicted that the name "The Railway-Transport Company of Serbia" would change to "The Railways of Serbia". Unfortunately, this last one is mostly fully fulfilled, and what I have led to today, we haven't had any major shifts. The first association when we talk about Serbian railways, and this was said by some of my previous colleagues, despite the fact that in recent years, a lot has been done by large involvement of people working in the "Serb Railways", on the regularity of rail traffic, the first associations are exactly delays, train shortages, cold, unlit trains in the winter period, a large number of committees, traditional users of railway services, first of all in goods, in freight traffic, who left the railways as carriers, and what certainly citizens know is one of the basic railway associations, are the significant subsidies that the state singles each year for "the railways of Serbia", and without which this action society could not work. So, it's clear to everyone and there's no one in this room, nor in the "Serb Railways", nor in the ministry, nor in the government, who would ignore the fact that the railway is in a difficult situation today, and it's good to know how difficult this is, but certainly that this difficult situation is not just because of some subjective failures, I would say first of all, that the difficult situation is on the railway and the reduction of the volume of transport and passengers, and the burden has been created as a result of reduced economic activity, reduced needs for rail services, but also as a result of poor organisation, poor social, poor staff policies in "Serbian Railways". Chronicly not investing in railway infrastructure is also one of the important factors that has brought today's railways into a difficult situation. Finally, I must say that one of the reasons why the railway is in this situation is the inapplicability of the Law on Railways, previously mentioned, which was adopted in this Assembly in 2005, which has certain gaps and which today's law we are discussing should be corrected. All of this suggests, and we heard some data, that today from 3,809 kilometers of railway network, 1,768 kilometers are highway tracks, and that only 32.7% are electrified. Only 7% of the track or 276 kilometers has two tracks, only 45% of the track has a 22.5-tonne axle load, while at 30% of the track this load is below 16 tonnes. The permitted speed goes 100km per hour to only 3.2% of the track, and the majority of the track, about 50% of the network, allows maximum speed of up to 60km with the exception of individual sections of the Belgrade-Shid railway, the Greater Plan-Nish, which are two-wheeled, electrified and on some stakeholders allow for higher speed. All other railways have outdated technical and technological parameters. Even in some sections of these tracks there are shares in very poor condition, so speed is often temporarily limited to 20 kilometers per hour. Railways are officially equipped with 480 locomotives, 8,500 freight cars and 550 passenger cars. Tow and towed vehicles are relatively old and unreliable, which does not rarely result in driving defects. This is just statistics. About 100 locomotives a day, and that's good information, it can run through Serbia's rails. In the last year, 320 seats in a total length of 535km were introduced on Serbia's railways, representing 16% of all railways involved in exploitation. The modernisation of railway infrastructure in the last decade has invested a modest 168m euros, and has been remounted about 136km. It is clear to all of us that these data do not paint an efficient system ready to become part of the European rail system. I am not presenting this information to criticise someone, to look for the culprit, but to remind and warn how necessary it is to invest in Serbian railways in the coming period. I will repeat once again that none like this government has so far taken so seriously into investment in rail infrastructure. A logical question arises – what is necessary to do today in Serbia to move the railway system from a dead spot, to become part of development instead of burdens and problems, and to become part of a major European traffic system, as we all say and what is the urgency of this law? In the first place, it is necessary to adopt laws which are applicable and which will be consistently applied. Secondly, it is necessary to invest significantly in railway infrastructure, then align the rules in the area of rail traffic with relevant EU regulations, as well as the use of positive EU experiences and ultimately the improvement of safety and interoperability of rail traffic. Of course, the listed components of the railway reform are interlinked and harmonised. When the law was passed in 2005, and today a very important and important place was just to raise the level of rail services to such a extent that they could at least participate in this large European traffic system in a partially similar or close manner. However, the first association when I talk about the participation of our railways is a discrepancy between Serbian railways and European railways and we are right on track, Italy's Pendolina, Simensov's German fast train, then a French TŽV that has commercial speeds of over 300km, without talking about some of the fastest speeds of 570 and a few kilometers for TŽV. However, I am saying all of this not to say how bad Serbian railways are, but how serious must we approach reform of Serbian railways and how much time we do not have to wait for this reform to join. Did Serbian railways have similar problems with European national railways over the past 20 years? Of course, it is also the experience of European railways, the EU railways can be a good indicator of what and how we should do at these times when we have finally decided to reform the rail system. The only difference is that they did this reform 20 years before us. Anyway, we can use their experience. Back in 1957, the European Economic Community began designing a common traffic policy. In 1962, a series of directives, recommendations, regulations and rules routed the common policy of the Single Transport Market. In 1975, the start of the legal regulation of the railway sector was established by Directive 75/327, which referred to harmonisation of the rules relating to the financial relations of railway undertakings. The main objective of this Directive was to improve the situation of rail traffic due to a significant decline in the transport of goods and passengers. At this very age, there is a huge expansion of road traffic primarily due to the cheap price of oil derivatives. It is clear that EU countries have been forced to take certain steps to make rail transport more accessible and attractive. This is exactly what I'm saying, in addition to repeating, subjective problems and problems that are characteristic of our country alone, there are problems that have been present both in the railways and in much more developed countries. In 1991, the modern regulation begins with the adoption of Directive 91/440. The main objective of this Directive is to establish a legal basis for the restructuring of national railways. The basic guidelines of this Directive are the basis for reforms of rail traffic in the EU. When we read these guidelines in Directive 91/440, we also know that when we compare them with the chapters and articles of the law that we are talking about today, that in our law, which we are discussing today, all of these guidelines have been incorporated and positive experience has been incorporated from the restructuring of national railways from the EU. I will read the guidelines set out in Directive 91/440. They relate to the integration of national rail systems into Europe's transport system, as well as to improving efficiency and co-operation with other modes of traffic, then eliminating the country's monopoly on integrated public enterprises, separating traffic on infrastructure and traffic organisations from goods and passenger traffic, the responsibility of the state for maintaining, developing and using transport infrastructure, guarantees for free, liberal, non-discriminatory access to rail infrastructure, all interested operators, as well as the state's obligations towards infrastructure manager in terms of financial liquidity competence. It is clear that these guidelines are the basis of the law that we are discussing today. The fact that this concept of a single rail system was not fully revived in the EU by 1991 and that, if I may say, overcame road traffic led to certain problems in the very functioning of the traffic system. There has been a disturbance in traffic security, the process itself in environmental protection is at risk, so in 2001, by publishing a second white book, the European Commission went into an even more determined fight to promote rail traffic. In 2001. The European Commission comes out with three packages of directives and regulations redefine relations between the state and the railways, division of rail operations in the organisational and financial sense, regulation of the railway network, certification to operators. Directive 2001/12 contains the amendments to Directive 91/440 and defines the obligation to form a regulatory body to ensure equal, non-discriminatory access to infrastructure and to all interested operators. It is in the Law on Railways, which we are discussing today, that one of the key places is exactly the regulatory body, meaning the Railway Directorate, which, of course, is the intensity of the law, that an independent body in one non-discriminatory way regulates the rail traffic market. The second package concerned legal and technical conditions of interoperability. The third package of directives and regulations refers to defining the measures and raising the quality of transport in international passenger and freight transport, as well as the measure to control the employment capacity of employees. As for the fourth package adopted in January this year, some will say there has been a certain withdrawal by the European Commission in an effort to fully liberalise the railway market. I would say that the European Commission is trying to find the best possible solution to the promotion of rail traffic at this difficult financial moment, taking all the benefits of rail traffic it is providing today. I say once again that in addition to our subjective problems in Serbia's railways in our environment, it is clear that much more advanced and richer countries have also had problems with rail restructuring, which only suggests that this is a very complex problem. In some previous discussions, we have unfortunately heard a certain level of banalisation of problems in rail traffic, once again, a very complex type of traffic. As far as the legal solution itself is concerned, it is clear that the intensity of the infrastructure and transport has been shared and I would not particularly explain the chapter concerning the infrastructure manager, where the most detailed details of the reasoned obligation, competence and responsibility of the infrastructure manager, are then the transport users themselves. As I said, Chapter 3 defines the obligations of the Railway Directorate, which assumes the regulatory role of the railway market, but also the role of regulators in the area of security and interoperability. I would touch another important segment in rail traffic reform, not diminishing the importance of the law I'm talking about today, which is investing in infrastructure. Repeated for the third time, the government is seriously investing in railway infrastructure both through Russian credit and through a loan from the Kuwaitian Fund for Economic Development and other funds and other European loans. Without serious investment in rail infrastructure, there is no reform of rail traffic. Of course, thanks to the encouraging investment in Corridor 11, the steel cookhouse of rail traffic in Serbia, but as it comes from the Zlatibor County, from Užica, I always welcome and insist on investing in the Belgrade-Bar railway line and I always point out that in just four months last year, a bar track from Kragujevac for Bar was carried around 40,000 Fijat cars. Citizens of western Serbia expect this government to invest seriously in Corridor 11 and railways, as well as travellers. At the very end, all the facts and very difficult situations in which our railways are located, aware of the complexity of the reforms that await our railways, but also of all the problems that all the railway organisations in Europe have, in much richer and much more medium-sized countries than with us, we from the URS will support this legal solution by expecting that in the coming period both the Government and the Resord Ministry and the Railway Directorate to make every effort to apply this law. In particular, I must stress that we also expect a high degree of seriousness from the management of the railway company in Serbia. I have to say, over the past years and decades, there have been a lot of gaps in the work of this public company and today, in the company of shareholders. This time, the state invests in the railways, no further excuse not to invest seriously in the railways. We expect from management a completely new approach, a whole new business philosophy, a single fight on the market, because it was a time when the Serbian Railways expected Serbia to give money for wages. Serbia's railway must earn its salary in the coming period, as is the law. We're sure that's how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25879	Do you know it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25880	Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go. Thank you, Mrs. Alexic. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25882	The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25885	I think the dignity of the MPs here who we have to listen to has been injured, trying to banish the culprits in charge and responsible for this, and the dignity of all those workers who are on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25886	Thank you, Your Honor. I have to say, I don't exactly believe in the honesty of the applicant's motive for the amendment. This amendment should be rejected for a simple reason, I'll be free to say this is a pure lobbyist amendment. What exactly is this about? Here, the amendment wants to achieve the following – that public and state-owned enterprises must address the chamber, then in alphabetical order for the executioner to be determined, and for private companies to enable them to choose their own enforcer. I really don't mind that the assistant minister, at a time when the lady who submitted the amendment, was in her ministry, which today is one of the biggest perpetrators and I have nothing against which he has an extraordinary job with one private firm today in Belgrade, which only gives him the opportunity to do the execution, but we can't discriminate against public and state-owned enterprises in relation to the private sector, but towards everyone equally and, of course, the chamber will determine the executioner in alphabetical order. That's why I don't believe in honesty and the very sincere motives of the applicant, with all of Belgrade knowing how close she is to that man herself, in the sense that he was her assistant while she was the minister of justice. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I have to say, I don't exactly believe in the honesty of the applicant's motive for the amendment. This amendment should be rejected for a simple reason, I'll be free to say this is a pure lobbyist amendment. What exactly is this about? Here, the amendment wants to achieve the following – that public and state-owned enterprises must address the chamber, then in alphabetical order for the executioner to be determined, and for private companies to enable them to choose their own enforcer. I really don't mind that the assistant minister, at a time when the lady who submitted the amendment, was in her ministry, which today is one of the biggest perpetrators and I have nothing against which he has an extraordinary job with one private firm today in Belgrade, which only gives him the opportunity to do the execution, but we can't discriminate against public and state-owned enterprises in relation to the private sector, but towards everyone equally and, of course, the chamber will determine the executioner in alphabetical order. That's why I don't believe in honesty and the very sincere motives of the applicant, with all of Belgrade knowing how close she is to that man herself, in the sense that he was her assistant while she was the minister of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25888	Mr. Minister, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs were very good at discussing distinguished colleagues. It seems to me that he's been conducting some optimism that is small and unrealistic given the current situation and I'm going to look back on what our parliamentary group expects from the law, because we've been seriously dealing with the problem of rail and rail traffic all these years, and we've been pointing to the need for a law like this to come into the assembly procedure and to perform a serious procedure in the reform of rail traffic in our country. What would be the first picture of the bill's assessment is that the very text of the law has no intention of objecting. We have so far had strategies and attempts to reform and modernise railways with partial successes. The problems of the Serbian railway are not only problems that burden our railways, similar problems across the region, somewhere more, somewhat less pronounced, but we do think that the mild-term countries in the environment, especially EU member states, have been dealing with problems and have dealt with them in a good way. Today, we have a situation where 17% of goods and passengers are transported by rail traffic in EU countries. Our railways do not seem to be competitive with passenger traffic, road traffic, air traffic, but it seems to us that with this condition they cannot be competitive in the region and therefore we have a situation that often bypasses Serbia during transport and increasingly chooses the central European roads to Southeast Europe via Romania and Bulgaria. What would be a very short assessment and not only a professional assessment but also a layman's assessment, the assessment of all our citizens, is that our railway stations are deserted and abandoned, that trains are old, that dirty windows, wagons, they've worn out the door, that the average speed on many railways is somewhere around 30 or a little more than 30 kilometers per hour, that many unsecured railway crossings, that the railways have run out, that it's important to reduce the safety of the transport of passengers and goods and that we unfortunately don't use enough measures and this huge potential called the Belgrade-Bar railway and the port of Bar. For all these reasons, we have been importing and exporting more goods through Croatian ports than through the port of Bar. One question is, who's responsible for all this? I think it's primarily the responsibility of the state, that there was a lack of reforms that had to be initiated by the state, a serious strategy and following up on human problems and a kind of irresponsibility that can't be done with justice, like paying a penalty for untapped funds. Minister, in public, it implements information that these foames reach 10 billion euros for untapped and undrawn funds. I mean the previous loans, but I'm asking if that information is correct? The justification for this is that management did not call tenders in good time to withdraw those funds and because the funds were blocked, that foams were paid. We hope that this will not be the case with the Russian $800 million loan that we have all voted for in this National Assembly and with great optimism we expect these funds to be directed where most necessary. Secondly, what experts are objecting to, which is, of course, that the state has to help the railways, it does all the countries in the world, it will always be, it's not, it's not an economically profitable mode of transport, but that really these funds are often wasted, and that often there's an impression that management is not so interested that the more it transports passengers and goods, the more they simply have, however, not big enough wages, I think of all the employees in the railways, but that they're simply paid in some way. Next thing you know, it wasn't something that was the subject of enough concern and enough interest. It's not the problems that burden our rail problems that have arisen only as a result of that system we've been fighting for a long time. The problems arise and they occur in all countries and more developed countries, as far as rail traffic is concerned, but what is the response of the serious states, that they react in a timely manner to all the problems observed, even when we introduced the first railway of Belgrade – Nis and when the first passenger traffic was established on September 3, 1884. It's a day celebrated as the Day of the Serbian Railways. We had problems before because the country was in an economically difficult state. We couldn't follow conventions from the Berlin Congress, so in 1880 a new convention was signed. We received a new three-year deadline to build the Belgrade-Vranje railway and connect Serbia to the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria at the time. And that deadline was broken by 18 months late. But what is characteristic of this period is that the rail traffic in Serbia was at the very end of the 19th and early 20th century perhaps at the highest level and that it was some golden age of rail traffic. There were reforms in both the '70s and the '80s and the electrification of the railway network, but here we are today, I think, with only 32% of our rails. The latter provide with a narrow track, if I'm not mistaken, were abolished in 1982, but as important as rail traffic shows and the removal of the rail with a narrow track, because it is simply through places and settlements where these railways have passed, and no rail with a wide track was made, it was simply economically felt by all the people and the population living in that territory. As a consequence, among other things, we also had the migration of the population from these areas. Because of the very great losses, due to the great loss of energy, due to thousands of departures at the annual level, because now it takes more time to reach the White Field than in some time before to arrive, and passenger and transport railway traffic, because of the fact that our locomotives and wagons with average age are close to 40 years, it really takes a major and serious state operation, but also leadership. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS will always support everything that goes in that direction, but we would not be too euphoric and overly optimistic to approach and expect in the coming period to solve all the problems that burden rail traffic, because we have, in addition to these systemic mistakes concerning the railway itself, had a number of political mistakes, so in the 1990s, instead of doing what almost all the parties are doing on Serbia's political scene, instead of seeking Serbia's membership in the EU, we went to conflicts that were unnecessary, which cost our country the most, which ultimately led to NATO aggression. NATO aggression, that should be said, seems to me that no one mentioned it today, destroyed much of the railway infrastructure, and simply that part of the damage is attributed to war damage. It is true that the last few years of the state and the resolution ministry are in some way being, but it seems to us that it is within a minute to 12, because we have, for countless years back in this House, pointed out the need for comprehensive solutions concerning the modernisation and reform of rail traffic, but also much clearer and much more open access to the spending of huge subsidies that Serbia gives to the AD Railways of Serbia on an annual basis. If we look at every segment of the operation that the state is in charge of, if we look at the railway stations, if we look at the state railways, if we look at the state trains and the cars, we'll see that the state had no serious and responsible relationship with the railways. This is, unfortunately, a picture of the state of the country. What the SPO with DHSS has been seeking since its founding is that we have simple rail traffic that is at the level of the most developed countries in Europe. It does not need to be reminded, and anyone who has had the opportunity to drive trains in developed EU countries knows that it is one of the most comfortable and one of the safest modes of transport, and quite cheap, that railway stations everywhere in the world are representative objects, are not mockery, are not the shame of a country. I once mentioned it in the National Assembly. It has happened to many of our officials to tell an experienced story that many foreign diplomats and officials when they really want to host someone in particular, take them to a restaurant at a train station, because they are really very often representative facilities, such as a train station in Madrid, which is one of the real Botanical gardens or railway stations in Munich. I've been a couple of times, and I believe you, too. A number of issues are also raised, as regards solving some specific problems, from the problem of moving the train station to Nis, whose shift would be more expensive than revitalisation and reconstruction of the existing railway station, which is a preconvincing that railway stations must be on the periphery of the city of a more demantuum-developed European country, where railway stations are located in the very centre of the city, such as the mentioned train station in Munich, which is immediately next to Marijan's salary, which is a panda for our Prince Michael Street. Regardless of the local pressures that are often not based on the basis of professional arguments and experiences of other better-organised countries in this regard, if the removal of the mentioned railway station and railways is more expensive than its revitalisation and modernisation, then the ministry and the leadership of the Serbian Railways simply cannot give in to this type of pressure, in my humble belief, give way. What SPO and DHSS expect in the future, we expect a much more open way of controlling state subsidies. Then we expect the Russian loan to be directed where it is most needed. It is clear to all of us that it is infrastructure and reconstruction of tow and degree by degree that we seek not only reform, but modernization, modernisation, but also changes in many habits. I know this transmission is certainly seen by people from the AD Railways of Serbia, but definitely, we have a system there that's quite bewitched, which is in some kind of lethargy and that really needs, first of all, the state to wake up and do everything my respected colleagues have talked about and what I was talking about on behalf of our parliamentary group. Serbia, unfortunately, is now and at a time of the global economic crisis and alone is in crisis resolving issues that should have been resolved significantly earlier, but this is not up to the SPO and the DHSS. It's good for our political scene that everyone now thinks the way we've been thinking. First of all, I'm thinking about the years 1990 to 2000. Minister, I think it's good for both you and your political party for accepting the reality of the modern age. I won't complain much about what policy you used to have and how much it cost all of us and you and the citizens of Serbia. It's clear to everyone and it's visible to everyone. What I expect is that this way of leading the state and accessing politics never happens again. It was difficult at that age for all of us who were on the side of normal Serbia to endure all kinds of political pressures. You know that most often because of these attitudes that have now been accepted, we have received stamps of traitors and foreign mercenaries and people's enemies, etc. But I will not personally transfer your political party too much for all your policy mistakes. What I expect in the future is that much less mistakes do not happen again and that all of this is your intention and that, I see, and the intention of almost all the MPs, and I believe that all of Serbia's citizens have an effective system, that we come out of the tromitude and finally begin in that part of our action to look like a serious state. Thank you. Mr. Minister, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs were very good at discussing distinguished colleagues. It seems to me that he's been conducting some optimism that is small and unrealistic given the current situation and I'm going to look back on what our parliamentary group expects from the law, because we've been seriously dealing with the problem of rail and rail traffic all these years, and we've been pointing to the need for a law like this to come into the assembly procedure and to perform a serious procedure in the reform of rail traffic in our country. What would be the first picture of the bill's assessment is that the very text of the law has no intention of objecting. We have so far had strategies and attempts to reform and modernise railways with partial successes. The problems of the Serbian railway are not only problems that burden our railways, similar problems across the region, somewhere more, somewhat less pronounced, but we do think that the mild-term countries in the environment, especially EU member states, have been dealing with problems and have dealt with them in a good way. Today, we have a situation where 17% of goods and passengers are transported by rail traffic in EU countries. Our railways do not seem to be competitive with passenger traffic, road traffic, air traffic, but it seems to us that with this condition they cannot be competitive in the region and therefore we have a situation that often bypasses Serbia during transport and increasingly chooses the central European roads to Southeast Europe via Romania and Bulgaria. What would be a very short assessment and not only a professional assessment but also a layman's assessment, the assessment of all our citizens, is that our railway stations are deserted and abandoned, that trains are old, that dirty windows, wagons, they've worn out the door, that the average speed on many railways is somewhere around 30 or a little more than 30 kilometers per hour, that many unsecured railway crossings, that the railways have run out, that it's important to reduce the safety of the transport of passengers and goods and that we unfortunately don't use enough measures and this huge potential called the Belgrade-Bar railway and the port of Bar. For all these reasons, we have been importing and exporting more goods through Croatian ports than through the port of Bar. One question is, who's responsible for all this? I think it's primarily the responsibility of the state, that there was a lack of reforms that had to be initiated by the state, a serious strategy and following up on human problems and a kind of irresponsibility that can't be done with justice, like paying a penalty for untapped funds. Minister, in public, it implements information that these foames reach 10 billion euros for untapped and undrawn funds. I mean the previous loans, but I'm asking if that information is correct? The justification for this is that management did not call tenders in good time to withdraw those funds and because the funds were blocked, that foams were paid. We hope that this will not be the case with the Russian $800 million loan that we have all voted for in this National Assembly and with great optimism we expect these funds to be directed where most necessary. Secondly, what experts are objecting to, which is, of course, that the state has to help the railways, it does all the countries in the world, it will always be, it's not, it's not an economically profitable mode of transport, but that really these funds are often wasted, and that often there's an impression that management is not so interested that the more it transports passengers and goods, the more they simply have, however, not big enough wages, I think of all the employees in the railways, but that they're simply paid in some way. Next thing you know, it wasn't something that was the subject of enough concern and enough interest. It's not the problems that burden our rail problems that have arisen only as a result of that system we've been fighting for a long time. The problems arise and they occur in all countries and more developed countries, as far as rail traffic is concerned, but what is the response of the serious states, that they react in a timely manner to all the problems observed, even when we introduced the first railway of Belgrade – Nis and when the first passenger traffic was established on September 3, 1884. It's a day celebrated as the Day of the Serbian Railways. We had problems before because the country was in an economically difficult state. We couldn't follow conventions from the Berlin Congress, so in 1880 a new convention was signed. We received a new three-year deadline to build the Belgrade-Vranje railway and connect Serbia to the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria at the time. And that deadline was broken by 18 months late. But what is characteristic of this period is that the rail traffic in Serbia was at the very end of the 19th and early 20th century perhaps at the highest level and that it was some golden age of rail traffic. There were reforms in both the '70s and the '80s and the electrification of the railway network, but here we are today, I think, with only 32% of our rails. The latter provide with a narrow track, if I'm not mistaken, were abolished in 1982, but as important as rail traffic shows and the removal of the rail with a narrow track, because it is simply through places and settlements where these railways have passed, and no rail with a wide track was made, it was simply economically felt by all the people and the population living in that territory. As a consequence, among other things, we also had the migration of the population from these areas. Because of the very great losses, due to the great loss of energy, due to thousands of departures at the annual level, because now it takes more time to reach the White Field than in some time before to arrive, and passenger and transport railway traffic, because of the fact that our locomotives and wagons with average age are close to 40 years, it really takes a major and serious state operation, but also leadership. The Serbian Renewal Movement and the DHSS will always support everything that goes in that direction, but we would not be too euphoric and overly optimistic to approach and expect in the coming period to solve all the problems that burden rail traffic, because we have, in addition to these systemic mistakes concerning the railway itself, had a number of political mistakes, so in the 1990s, instead of doing what almost all the parties are doing on Serbia's political scene, instead of seeking Serbia's membership in the EU, we went to conflicts that were unnecessary, which cost our country the most, which ultimately led to NATO aggression. NATO aggression, that should be said, seems to me that no one mentioned it today, destroyed much of the railway infrastructure, and simply that part of the damage is attributed to war damage. It is true that the last few years of the state and the resolution ministry are in some way being, but it seems to us that it is within a minute to 12, because we have, for countless years back in this House, pointed out the need for comprehensive solutions concerning the modernisation and reform of rail traffic, but also much clearer and much more open access to the spending of huge subsidies that Serbia gives to the AD Railways of Serbia on an annual basis. If we look at every segment of the operation that the state is in charge of, if we look at the railway stations, if we look at the state railways, if we look at the state trains and the cars, we'll see that the state had no serious and responsible relationship with the railways. This is, unfortunately, a picture of the state of the country. What the SPO with DHSS has been seeking since its founding is that we have simple rail traffic that is at the level of the most developed countries in Europe. It does not need to be reminded, and anyone who has had the opportunity to drive trains in developed EU countries knows that it is one of the most comfortable and one of the safest modes of transport, and quite cheap, that railway stations everywhere in the world are representative objects, are not mockery, are not the shame of a country. I once mentioned it in the National Assembly. It has happened to many of our officials to tell an experienced story that many foreign diplomats and officials when they really want to host someone in particular, take them to a restaurant at a train station, because they are really very often representative facilities, such as a train station in Madrid, which is one of the real Botanical gardens or railway stations in Munich. I've been a couple of times, and I believe you, too. A number of issues are also raised, as regards solving some specific problems, from the problem of moving the train station to Nis, whose shift would be more expensive than revitalisation and reconstruction of the existing railway station, which is a preconvincing that railway stations must be on the periphery of the city of a more demantuum-developed European country, where railway stations are located in the very centre of the city, such as the mentioned train station in Munich, which is immediately next to Marijan's salary, which is a panda for our Prince Michael Street. Regardless of the local pressures that are often not based on the basis of professional arguments and experiences of other better-organised countries in this regard, if the removal of the mentioned railway station and railways is more expensive than its revitalisation and modernisation, then the ministry and the leadership of the Serbian Railways simply cannot give in to this type of pressure, in my humble belief, give way. What SPO and DHSS expect in the future, we expect a much more open way of controlling state subsidies. Then we expect the Russian loan to be directed where it is most needed. It is clear to all of us that it is infrastructure and reconstruction of tow and degree by degree that we seek not only reform, but modernization, modernisation, but also changes in many habits. I know this transmission is certainly seen by people from the AD Railways of Serbia, but definitely, we have a system there that's quite bewitched, which is in some kind of lethargy and that really needs, first of all, the state to wake up and do everything my respected colleagues have talked about and what I was talking about on behalf of our parliamentary group. Serbia, unfortunately, is now and at a time of the global economic crisis and alone is in crisis resolving issues that should have been resolved significantly earlier, but this is not up to the SPO and the DHSS. It's good for our political scene that everyone now thinks the way we've been thinking. First of all, I'm thinking about the years 1990 to 2000. Minister, I think it's good for both you and your political party for accepting the reality of the modern age. I won't complain much about what policy you used to have and how much it cost all of us and you and the citizens of Serbia. It's clear to everyone and it's visible to everyone. What I expect is that this way of leading the state and accessing politics never happens again. It was difficult at that age for all of us who were on the side of normal Serbia to endure all kinds of political pressures. You know that most often because of these attitudes that have now been accepted, we have received stamps of traitors and foreign mercenaries and people's enemies, etc. But I will not personally transfer your political party too much for all your policy mistakes. What I expect in the future is that much less mistakes do not happen again and that all of this is your intention and that, I see, and the intention of almost all the MPs, and I believe that all of Serbia's citizens have an effective system, that we come out of the tromitude and finally begin in that part of our action to look like a serious state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25891	Please don't make this a replica. Mr. Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25892	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Mrs. Malovic, on what grounds? I'm asking for the reason I've got a lot of reports, so I need to see who has the advantage. Here you go, Mrs. Malovic. Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Mrs. Malovic, on what grounds? I'm asking for the reason I've got a lot of reports, so I need to see who has the advantage. Here you go, Mrs. Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25894	MP Dubravka Filipovski. MP Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25897	Let's get back to the subject. You two, Mr. Krstic and Mr. Radulovic, have been announced in Serbia as bearers of change, as someone who should set Serbia in the long term towards development. There is no long-term development with 4.5% of GDP for education, no long-term development with 25 euros per scientist per month, no long-term development as long as we educate hundreds of textile technicians annually, and that the textile industry almost does not exist. What do we do when we get that public sector fixed up? What about these technicians for nothing? The cause is on the other side. That's what I was talking about. In your budget, you don't solve the cause of the problem. In the Ministry of Youth and Sports, money for some research, for strategies, each of the following strategy starts with the words – that the previous one did not produce the same results. That doesn't solve the problem. The facts are very inexorable. In that budget you sent on November 1st, zero dinars for active employment measures. Is it true or isn't it? So then you changed the budget and put two billion into the budget. I'm talking about the essence. I'm talking about our education producing unemployment. I'm talking about our education not communicating with the economy. I'm talking about the unemployment of young people being a problem for themselves and asking for greater attention, and there's nothing in the budget and there's no chance for young people. That was my discussion about the problem. We're finding facts and we're not solving anything. The problem has come to this point that there's no going back. We have to solve it. The whole of Europe has stood up, and we are the only ones who remain silent and stop problems. Bring the Minister of Education, the Minister of Business is here, bring the Minister of Youth and Sports, open the topic, show interest. For that we will give support... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... But for a budget that doesn't stand a chance for young people, we can't give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25898	Thank you. I won't look back on you saying I'm being dishonest. It's your business and your reasoning, some of the prices of Serbian citizens watching us. But it really bothers me when you say the amendment is lobbying. You're free to prove it, if you have proof of something like that, and the man you're talking about is not here, so I don't think it's nice to talk about a man who can't answer. Was he my assistant? I think you mean Dejan Pasic, since he was mentioned in the principle debate. Yes, he was my assistant and I'm proud of it. And now he's my friend and I'm proud he's my friend. But also for the sake of honesty and for the complete informing of Serbia's public, say when he became the perpetrator. He signed up for the 2013 exam. You know, if I couldn't help him, even if I had the best intentions, it would have been appreciated. So in 2013, he passed the exam and was appointed in 2013. It is also not nice to say that there are the largest number of cases because you can trust me or re-answer me that I am dishonest, you can go to the Justice Ministry website where there is, according to law, the obligation for all those who are involved in the execution process in Serbia to submit reports, so these reports show how many cases there are. Therefore, as I said, my words do not have to be trusted, but an insight into the Justice Ministry's website can be made, where there is a report on the work of all the perpetrators in Serbia and where you can see how many cases there are. Thank you. Thank you. I won't look back on you saying I'm being dishonest. It's your business and your reasoning, some of the prices of Serbian citizens watching us. But it really bothers me when you say the amendment is lobbying. You're free to prove it, if you have proof of something like that, and the man you're talking about is not here, so I don't think it's nice to talk about a man who can't answer. Was he my assistant? I think you mean Dejan Pasic, since he was mentioned in the principle debate. Yes, he was my assistant and I'm proud of it. And now he's my friend and I'm proud he's my friend. But also for the sake of honesty and for the complete informing of Serbia's public, say when he became the perpetrator. He signed up for the 2013 exam. You know, if I couldn't help him, even if I had the best intentions, it would have been appreciated. So in 2013, he passed the exam and was appointed in 2013. It is also not nice to say that there are the largest number of cases because you can trust me or re-answer me that I am dishonest, you can go to the Justice Ministry website where there is, according to law, the obligation for all those who are involved in the execution process in Serbia to submit reports, so these reports show how many cases there are. Therefore, as I said, my words do not have to be trusted, but an insight into the Justice Ministry's website can be made, where there is a report on the work of all the perpetrators in Serbia and where you can see how many cases there are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25900	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my satisfaction on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, which is a large number of essential amendments, which the NS parliamentary group has submitted in the previous term, included in this law, so that in one indirect way we also consider us as people who participated in the creation of this law. There has been no change to the Law on Railways since 2005. This law is seen as a law which aims to improve the capacity of the railway system and this law, in our deep opinion, creates conditions for the independent business of railway undertakings, with increased competitiveness and improved quality of rail transport in general. I also consider a good provision of this law that the separation of the rail system must in some way be done by detachment for the steering part when it comes to infrastructure and the part responsible for transport in passenger and freight traffic. In my deep opinion, this law also has two very precise solutions when it comes to intermodal, combined traffic, but also the competences of the Railway Directorate, which are very precisely defined by this law. When it comes to combined transport, I believe that Article 83 is very clear in order to improve combined transport that the government is regulating this area and very clear state aid and stimulating measures, and when we recently discussed the Energy Efficiency Act, we pointed out the advantages of combined traffic and many colleagues pointed out that just combined traffic is cleaner, that we have very little pollution and it is very important to define this traffic precisely and further improve it. As for the Directorate, the big problem so far has been that the powers of the Directorate have not been correctly specified, in the sense that the Directorate could not bring in sublegal acts, and the jurisdiction of the Railway Directorate has been very clearly specified and, as you, Mr Minister, said, the Directorate is now a body for licensing and the regulatory body and security. I would also agree with my colleague, Baure, who said this law for the first time clearly provides that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopts a national railway infrastructure programme on a proposal from the government. In this way we clearly have a national programme involving the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The problem of the previous law was that it was not in line with EU law and was also a problem that was not applied in practice and unfortunately, with the restructuring in railways under the previous law did not continue. The direct consequence of this was disproportionate investment in railways and road traffic. So more has been invested in road traffic. Again, the question arises – who should invest in unrestructured and inefficient railways? As a consequence, we had railway transport, instead of Corridor 10, as naturally the most suitable and shortest route from Western Europe to Turkey and the Middle East, taking alternative routes across Romania to Bulgaria. The new law harmonizes all its solutions with the EU legal framework and, regardless of the fact that in Western European countries, the market share in most railways began to decline in the 50s as a result of the transition of the economy from a traditionally difficult industry to the service and retail industry, however, these legal solutions in EU countries have produced some results. I think it is clear to all of us that the Serbian Railways in this form cannot withstand a competition that will certainly emerge as a result of the adoption of this law and therefore a fundamental reorganisation of this public enterprise is necessary. Given that the Railway is a vital part of the transport sector, I consider it to be a very important provision of this law that will allow railway operators to be granted the status of independent operators. In this way, they will operate on a commercial basis and in line with market requirements. The future development and efficient functioning of the railway system can only be improved if the difference between the provision of transport services and infrastructure management is made. Regardless of the incentive of competitiveness, I consider it very responsible that the state remains responsible for the development of railway infrastructure, and the law defines that the infrastructure manager, with the consent of the Government, is obliged to establish the rules governing both the fees and prices of railway undertakings' services for the use of railway infrastructure, which must respect the principle of non-discrimination between railway undertakings. This law also provides for incentives to manage railway infrastructures, to reduce costs and to manage rail infrastructure as efficiently as possible, and in this respect I believe that certain contracts to be signed between local self-governments and the previous provinces and government will produce some results in terms of reducing the cost of rail infrastructure management. I believe that these revenues, which will thus be achieved, will significantly reduce the subsidies that the state of Serbia is currently giving for the railway, which, as a direct positive objective of this law, will have to disburse the budget. This law regulates the public transport obligation of passengers in a way that is regulated by European countries, and these legal solutions are more precise and efficient than traditional state aid to ensure smooth public transport of passengers. In order for public transport of passengers to be organised in a way that meets the needs of the public, the competent authorities must have the option of free choice of rail transport. In order to guarantee the application of the principle of transparency as well as the equal treatment of competing railway undertakings, it is essential that the public transport obligation contract, between the competent authority and the selected railway undertaking, defines the nature of the public transport obligation, as well as the agreed compensation. All in all, I believe that these solutions should lead to an increase in interest in rail traffic, both in the country itself and in countries associated with the railway infrastructure with Serbia. I believe these changes of law will attract foreign investors who will have a positive effect on the economy and citizens in general. That is why the NS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like to express my satisfaction on behalf of the NS parliamentary group, which is a large number of essential amendments, which the NS parliamentary group has submitted in the previous term, included in this law, so that in one indirect way we also consider us as people who participated in the creation of this law. There has been no change to the Law on Railways since 2005. This law is seen as a law which aims to improve the capacity of the railway system and this law, in our deep opinion, creates conditions for the independent business of railway undertakings, with increased competitiveness and improved quality of rail transport in general. I also consider a good provision of this law that the separation of the rail system must in some way be done by detachment for the steering part when it comes to infrastructure and the part responsible for transport in passenger and freight traffic. In my deep opinion, this law also has two very precise solutions when it comes to intermodal, combined traffic, but also the competences of the Railway Directorate, which are very precisely defined by this law. When it comes to combined transport, I believe that Article 83 is very clear in order to improve combined transport that the government is regulating this area and very clear state aid and stimulating measures, and when we recently discussed the Energy Efficiency Act, we pointed out the advantages of combined traffic and many colleagues pointed out that just combined traffic is cleaner, that we have very little pollution and it is very important to define this traffic precisely and further improve it. As for the Directorate, the big problem so far has been that the powers of the Directorate have not been correctly specified, in the sense that the Directorate could not bring in sublegal acts, and the jurisdiction of the Railway Directorate has been very clearly specified and, as you, Mr Minister, said, the Directorate is now a body for licensing and the regulatory body and security. I would also agree with my colleague, Baure, who said this law for the first time clearly provides that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopts a national railway infrastructure programme on a proposal from the government. In this way we clearly have a national programme involving the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The problem of the previous law was that it was not in line with EU law and was also a problem that was not applied in practice and unfortunately, with the restructuring in railways under the previous law did not continue. The direct consequence of this was disproportionate investment in railways and road traffic. So more has been invested in road traffic. Again, the question arises – who should invest in unrestructured and inefficient railways? As a consequence, we had railway transport, instead of Corridor 10, as naturally the most suitable and shortest route from Western Europe to Turkey and the Middle East, taking alternative routes across Romania to Bulgaria. The new law harmonizes all its solutions with the EU legal framework and, regardless of the fact that in Western European countries, the market share in most railways began to decline in the 50s as a result of the transition of the economy from a traditionally difficult industry to the service and retail industry, however, these legal solutions in EU countries have produced some results. I think it is clear to all of us that the Serbian Railways in this form cannot withstand a competition that will certainly emerge as a result of the adoption of this law and therefore a fundamental reorganisation of this public enterprise is necessary. Given that the Railway is a vital part of the transport sector, I consider it to be a very important provision of this law that will allow railway operators to be granted the status of independent operators. In this way, they will operate on a commercial basis and in line with market requirements. The future development and efficient functioning of the railway system can only be improved if the difference between the provision of transport services and infrastructure management is made. Regardless of the incentive of competitiveness, I consider it very responsible that the state remains responsible for the development of railway infrastructure, and the law defines that the infrastructure manager, with the consent of the Government, is obliged to establish the rules governing both the fees and prices of railway undertakings' services for the use of railway infrastructure, which must respect the principle of non-discrimination between railway undertakings. This law also provides for incentives to manage railway infrastructures, to reduce costs and to manage rail infrastructure as efficiently as possible, and in this respect I believe that certain contracts to be signed between local self-governments and the previous provinces and government will produce some results in terms of reducing the cost of rail infrastructure management. I believe that these revenues, which will thus be achieved, will significantly reduce the subsidies that the state of Serbia is currently giving for the railway, which, as a direct positive objective of this law, will have to disburse the budget. This law regulates the public transport obligation of passengers in a way that is regulated by European countries, and these legal solutions are more precise and efficient than traditional state aid to ensure smooth public transport of passengers. In order for public transport of passengers to be organised in a way that meets the needs of the public, the competent authorities must have the option of free choice of rail transport. In order to guarantee the application of the principle of transparency as well as the equal treatment of competing railway undertakings, it is essential that the public transport obligation contract, between the competent authority and the selected railway undertaking, defines the nature of the public transport obligation, as well as the agreed compensation. All in all, I believe that these solutions should lead to an increase in interest in rail traffic, both in the country itself and in countries associated with the railway infrastructure with Serbia. I believe these changes of law will attract foreign investors who will have a positive effect on the economy and citizens in general. That is why the NS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25903	Minister Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25904	I thank you, Mrs. Malovic. Mr. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djukanovic, you have no right to a replica. She responded to your exposure. She was entitled to a replica, but you have no right to a replica. Mr. Jovanovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you. I thank you, Mrs. Malovic. Mr. Jovanovic, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Djukanovic, you have no right to a replica. She responded to your exposure. She was entitled to a replica, but you have no right to a replica. Mr. Jovanovic, the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25906	National MP Dusan Obradovic. Here you go. National MP Dusan Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25909	Once again, the budget has significant resources aimed at creating healthy preconditions in order to employ young people. Making money into social programs is something that hasn't given us any results in years. We need a healthy system and healthy jobs. Significant money in the budget is foreseen for this, significant money is foreseen for the resolution and restructuring and restructuring of the entire sector, which has actually brought the country back. Of course, we all wish we could change everything overnight. Unfortunately, it can't. We're trying to do what's real, and I think we're attacking exactly the causes, not the consequences. The bottom line of our problem is the collapse of economy and economy. The years have passed, the great desolation, we inherited the condition as it is and we are looking for the best way to get out of the problem we are in, and I think we've found the measure. The year 2014 will be a difficult year, in which these significant structural changes will take place that will put us on the right path, so that in 2015 we begin to feel better. I repeat, as regards young people, especially professional young people, we have allocated considerable resources in the budget, which are about to create a healthy part of the economy that will employ these young people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25910	Chairman, I point to the violation of article 106, so I ask you to intervene, calling on this provision of the Rules of Procedure, because the discussion has gone beyond the agenda. The previous speaker pointed to the name and the name of a person who undoubtedly has the identity of a private executioner, but his legitimacy and the work he does is undoubtedly not part of the agenda and is no doubt not the subject of consideration, especially not the amendment and addition of the law on enforcement that we are discussing today. Remembrances, we were hostages yesterday over 580 amendments submitted by one parliamentary group, or two MPs, and I think... Chairman, I point to the violation of article 106, so I ask you to intervene, calling on this provision of the Rules of Procedure, because the discussion has gone beyond the agenda. The previous speaker pointed to the name and the name of a person who undoubtedly has the identity of a private executioner, but his legitimacy and the work he does is undoubtedly not part of the agenda and is no doubt not the subject of consideration, especially not the amendment and addition of the law on enforcement that we are discussing today. Remembrances, we were hostages yesterday over 580 amendments submitted by one parliamentary group, or two MPs, and I think...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25912	Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, dear ministers, today I will address the ruling coalition on behalf of the DS. Today, unfortunately, there is only Minister Mrkonjic and, of course, he has enough experience, not only in the area of infrastructure, but also in politics, so he is used to bearing responsibility somewhere and his coalition partners. When I mention the coalition, I mention it is in the context of your coalition partners' promises, but also the prime minister of this government, who is also the president of your party, who said you would pass new laws, better laws, much better laws. Today we actually see, Ministers, you may remember Resavia School, or the concept of Resavia School, at this point I'm talking about, that this is absolutely prescribed law and you know it very well. Why hasn't this law been in the process before? There's a lot of reasons. One of these reasons is that the situation in our railway does not require one step forward. This law is definitely a step forward, but unfortunately only one, and we need at least three, four steps each year to raise capacity and in general the state of our railway. Today we are aware that Serbia's railways have about 18.5 thousand workers, that they have about 1800 kilometers of rail, of which only 3% of the kilometers can be used at a speed greater than 100 kilometers per hour. We know what the problem is with electricity. Here, I am from Kragujevac and I know how much trouble my colleague Mitrovic has from the URS, and he also mentioned the transit to Bar and the exports of Fiat. What kind of problems this train has going to Bar is that all those who do the expedition in Fiat know best. What we want to point out today is that this law is something that reminds a lot of one period, which you ministers remember perfectly, which is the period when we entered the free flight story. Of course, it doesn't have much to do with the railroad, but it has to do with traffic. That's when everyone started by saying that JAT won't be able to withstand the pressure of the competition, he won't be able to adjust in time. When the law was passed, many in JAT, but also those responsible, above all in your ministry, were very happy when they met in the text with a part called the clause, which primarily implies a delayed adaptation to that free flight law. Everyone was very happy, there's no competition yet, JAT's not going down that fast. Unfortunately, that time was not used to adjust JAT, but was used to enjoy the privileges of the monopoly that JAT was doing at the time. Today we have some quasi contracts with, in this case, the Emirates. We're all safe, and you ministers know very well that JAT's value of contracted destinations is far less than what the debts are, far less than the burden it carries with too many employees, but also the habits that this company has. That is why we are talking today in favour of this law being one step ahead, but again I am talking about that the ruling coalition is a month in the middle of a regular session not having laws to propose, but rather making such proposals and laws that we are going to discuss these days, and it does not agree to put some very important laws on the agenda that the Assembly, most of the votes of the MPs, and above all the ruling majority, did not want to put in place, and the DS presented them as very important laws. The reason for the urgency of this law and the reason why we are even entering this procedure is that since June 1st, we couldn't get into communication on railways, wagon transitions, locomotives and whole compositions with Europe. This is not the EU's issue. This is a matter of European standards independent of the EU. This is a thing for us to survive on this market. The fact is, we're passing the laws again in tea. The fact is, we make laws because we have to do it. We didn't take the opportunity to fix the 2005 Law, which was not, we agree, sufficiently accurate. Many areas are not well-organized enough. Today we're just continuing that tradition. Many things, of course, are defined, but unfortunately, many of the opportunities have been missed that we could through this law fix. What everyone said today, but very shyly, is that the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic, which exists, is something that is completely inapplicable. The law you promised to pass in the next month is a law of perability, which is something that had to go along with this law. You know that, Minister. The fact that disorganization, intricacies, but also the obvious tightenings and delays of the government, in this regard, are something we're going to consider. You say in a month. We'll see. Your colleague Selakovic promised until March 10th this, by March 10th, what, this law, that law. You promised a lot as a government. Today we see that we have a problem in the legislation again, and this home obviously has to wait for the government to propose these legal solutions. The basic question about this law is – how are we going to apply it? The easiest thing to do is to pass the law, and then not to apply it. Today you have that the Serbian Railways do not have a security certificate, they do not even have a license. It's like someone's running a vehicle that's not registered, and he doesn't even have a driver's license. Such is the situation we currently have, and in such a situation were those unfortunate people in the tunnel some days ago, driving the trains of the Serbian Railways. Director Simonovic didn't even want to see them. No one from the ministry, no one in charge showed up at the scene. It's a practice that exists everywhere in the world. When you're already in charge of a particular resort, then you must be fully prepared to go out to the citizens and tell them. Of course, most of these 22 citizens have the right, but all other passengers, who have found themselves in a very stressful situation. It's not just a physical injury, it's a very stressful situation. We saw how many kids there were. In a composition that does not have, like all other trains in the Serbian Railways, a security certificate, or a license, that is something that Serbian citizens drive. It's a state of railways. A large number of stripes, of these 1,800 kilometers, actually doesn't exist. We are talking about infrastructure management here today and we are talking about that all of this will be run by one society, it is known that it will be the railway Serbia, that it will most likely be holding, so are both Bulgarians and Croats and many others have defined themselves first for holding, and later perhaps for tearing up more companies. We know that someone should manage that holding company. We know that Dragoljub Simonovic, we'll all agree in this room, only someone can say it no, is not able to lead it and most likely will not lead it. It will be an opportunity for a man who finished the Faculty of Union "Nikola Tesla" for an entrepreneur in 2008, even though he is a man, I remember in 1959, meaning to say under the old days. He's the man who took over to run the Serbia Railway, who has 18,500 employees and we all know that we'll take advantage of it, that you'll take advantage of the opportunity to change this law, to establish a new society and replace the man who's going to run that big holding tomorrow when you start. It's the only thing that might be the real reason for this law being passed right now, since you're aware of the kind of man you've given to run the railroad, and it's not good to bow down and say that the opposition was right, but to use a legal solution like this. What's a bigger problem than who's just going to be the CEO is the fate of a large number of employees. This may be an opportunity for when a holding company is established, by transferring property not all employees, but by leaving them in a company that has a great tradition, an old firm, it's nice, it's nice -- stay in the railways, but the railways that will inevitably go bankrupt or bankruptcy, we'll see which model they'll be chosen and those people will of course be out of a job. Whether they will be similar or on what basis will be chosen by those who will move into holding, it is something that raises great doubt and something that should be under great care. This law, as a law, hides a large number of problems that can be expressed in change itself. What's still to be said is that, in addition to the certificates we talked about, safety, even though a large number of miles under the grass today, people can't even come near to cut the grass, to put away ambrosia because the state still wants to manage, in one way, the complete infrastructure that, in our opinion, is not the happiest solution. There's gonna be a lot of problems. Of course, we also see by the amendments submitted by LSV MPs. In fact, it is said that there is no procedure in Serbia. Minister, you know what the deal with the Fiat is about the railroad. I'm going to touch on a subject related to the Kragujevac himself, as well as the regional pathway. Your colleague Verica Kalanovic is very well-acquainted, but I know that you are also familiar with the regional route Kragujevac – Batocina, which is without all the permits. Of course, if, God forbid, any car accident happens, everyone has the right to sue the state, because he was driving a path that doesn't exist, which has no license, which is not allowed to be used. It's something that's dangerous. Minister, we invite you to do one important thing for Kragujevac, for "Fiat", but also for all citizens of Serbia, to drive that road, whether they go to Novi Pazar, Kraljevo, Cačak. You know how important that trip is. We invite you to, because of the importance of a contract with the Fiat for the whole country, to solve the problem of the railway, even if some of the great estrogen stars come to the opening. We are prepared, as Kragujevci, to allocate funds to get something that is very important for both Serbia and Kragujevac. As for other things that this law mentions, it's something that talks about competition, it's about something that's progressing. We're talking about competition in the area of passenger traffic, but also freight traffic. I almost had the opportunity to see that certain railway people boasted that in profit, or traffic, there was no profit, increased participation in passenger traffic. Unfortunately, business activity has fallen well with 90%, which has been freight traffic, which is everywhere in Europe and our neighbours normally, that freight traffic carries most of the rail traffic, today we have 82% freight traffic and 18% passenger traffic. It's something that says that tomorrow we can have competition in freight traffic, but in passenger traffic it'll go a lot harder. You were saying that it would be public transport contracts, that only those shares and the departures they make would receive certain subsidies, as we do with urban traffic in all major cities, so rail traffic would be able to work. What it's gonna look like, nobody knows. We are left to see how this law will be applied to this matter. There's a big dilemma about what's going to happen to passenger traffic and what's their competitiveness right now, the very traffic traffic itself. For the freighters, I say again, there's nothing to worry about. Of course, this law also deals with this topic of freight and passenger life, but that is not the problem of the Serbian railway. The fact that we've introduced competition into passenger and freighters doesn't solve the problem. We all know that the problem isn't really cars and locomotives. They are expensive, locomotives go up to four million euros and over, but the real problems are in infrastructure. Serbia has a railway problem that we will be looking for in a few years for a metal detector. They just can't find where they've been anymore. Only the oldest remembers where the tracks are and that's something that's actually a problem. This law actually avoids the possibility of a long-term solution, maintaining infrastructure and taking responsibility for those who are interested in it. This leaves the possibility that, in case an autonomous province or a local self-government is interested in a particular stock, that it builds a society that will run infrastructure maintenance, but it's very touchy and we'll see how it works. It will certainly be applied in certain cases, but it won't take away. That entrepreneur won't get in, and you know it well. What's the feature of the railroad is that 18 billion dinars are actually thrown into the well every year. For what? Because most, almost 100% of the subsidies, i.e. the transfer funds to the railways, are going to pay. It's not a well because employees receive salaries, but it's something that looks like what we had in many factories, which is buying social peace. As long as it can last, that's a big question. Will the Serbia Railroad or tomorrow that holding company be ready to get money for what he's doing and have some responsibility for that money he's getting from the state, that's a big question? Are you and this government able to ensure the application of this law, that's the biggest question. We're talking about the law being modest, it's just one step, not three, as long as we need it. We're talking about that and that one step is a big question, is with this kind of system of values declared by this government you're able to apply it and that one system of values, which is in the rail, we get money, and we don't have any responsibility, have we realised that transport, have we realized a particular service, simply has to be changed. This law makes it self-initiative. For the next year, there will be a full hunt in the blurry. It'll be a year of adjustment. What it'll look like, we'll see. But it may be one period to give to the railways, it is an important resource of the Serbian state and it is important to make better use of those years, to see the real costs. We don't know how much a train costs us today, how much one of his routes cost us. If we wanted to see how much electricity it spends, how much it spends in the number of employees, their incomes, other belongings, that's something that's total confusion. It'll take us that year, hopefully no more, to see what the situation in the railways looks like. I don't share the optimism of my fellow MPs. I remind you that this law has been extorted so that by the first of June, if we hadn't adopted it, it would have been a big problem. I remind you that the law has not been passed along with the accompanying Security Act, and that speaks of how confused this government has been, how many authorities have found them and how unprepared they are to take serious matters upon their shoulders. What you, Minister, say - came to the government. A lot of laws came to the government, so they stayed there too long. If this law doesn't come into force by September 1st, I'm talking about the Safety Act, we're gonna have a new problem in the railroad. 35 If we only adopt laws to put out fires, then there is no talking about any development, no saving, only the spilling from the hollow to the empty. We are now witnessing that the state is establishing a new holding company that will have several companies. In the perspective, it will separate or not, depending on which practice we choose in the future. We have a risk in the number of employees who will move into a new holding company. We have a risk of implementing all these legal provisions. Is the Ministry of Finance, but is your ministry ready to take a serious job as soon as possible along with the directorate, we said a year at the most? These are all serious problems. There are serious problems, and I say once again, that we have managed to get into a situation so we don't take this chance and pass the right law, not just a minimum of the minimum that Brussels will approve. This is where the EU's trust was tested, as they also give an opinion on this law and you yourself said it had support. We have tested what is the minimum that they will accept, because we are not ready and we are not honest with the changes that are necessary in the railways. That is, to put it that way, the real reason why this law is passed. Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, dear ministers, today I will address the ruling coalition on behalf of the DS. Today, unfortunately, there is only Minister Mrkonjic and, of course, he has enough experience, not only in the area of infrastructure, but also in politics, so he is used to bearing responsibility somewhere and his coalition partners. When I mention the coalition, I mention it is in the context of your coalition partners' promises, but also the prime minister of this government, who is also the president of your party, who said you would pass new laws, better laws, much better laws. Today we actually see, Ministers, you may remember Resavia School, or the concept of Resavia School, at this point I'm talking about, that this is absolutely prescribed law and you know it very well. Why hasn't this law been in the process before? There's a lot of reasons. One of these reasons is that the situation in our railway does not require one step forward. This law is definitely a step forward, but unfortunately only one, and we need at least three, four steps each year to raise capacity and in general the state of our railway. Today we are aware that Serbia's railways have about 18.5 thousand workers, that they have about 1800 kilometers of rail, of which only 3% of the kilometers can be used at a speed greater than 100 kilometers per hour. We know what the problem is with electricity. Here, I am from Kragujevac and I know how much trouble my colleague Mitrovic has from the URS, and he also mentioned the transit to Bar and the exports of Fiat. What kind of problems this train has going to Bar is that all those who do the expedition in Fiat know best. What we want to point out today is that this law is something that reminds a lot of one period, which you ministers remember perfectly, which is the period when we entered the free flight story. Of course, it doesn't have much to do with the railroad, but it has to do with traffic. That's when everyone started by saying that JAT won't be able to withstand the pressure of the competition, he won't be able to adjust in time. When the law was passed, many in JAT, but also those responsible, above all in your ministry, were very happy when they met in the text with a part called the clause, which primarily implies a delayed adaptation to that free flight law. Everyone was very happy, there's no competition yet, JAT's not going down that fast. Unfortunately, that time was not used to adjust JAT, but was used to enjoy the privileges of the monopoly that JAT was doing at the time. Today we have some quasi contracts with, in this case, the Emirates. We're all safe, and you ministers know very well that JAT's value of contracted destinations is far less than what the debts are, far less than the burden it carries with too many employees, but also the habits that this company has. That is why we are talking today in favour of this law being one step ahead, but again I am talking about that the ruling coalition is a month in the middle of a regular session not having laws to propose, but rather making such proposals and laws that we are going to discuss these days, and it does not agree to put some very important laws on the agenda that the Assembly, most of the votes of the MPs, and above all the ruling majority, did not want to put in place, and the DS presented them as very important laws. The reason for the urgency of this law and the reason why we are even entering this procedure is that since June 1st, we couldn't get into communication on railways, wagon transitions, locomotives and whole compositions with Europe. This is not the EU's issue. This is a matter of European standards independent of the EU. This is a thing for us to survive on this market. The fact is, we're passing the laws again in tea. The fact is, we make laws because we have to do it. We didn't take the opportunity to fix the 2005 Law, which was not, we agree, sufficiently accurate. Many areas are not well-organized enough. Today we're just continuing that tradition. Many things, of course, are defined, but unfortunately, many of the opportunities have been missed that we could through this law fix. What everyone said today, but very shyly, is that the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic, which exists, is something that is completely inapplicable. The law you promised to pass in the next month is a law of perability, which is something that had to go along with this law. You know that, Minister. The fact that disorganization, intricacies, but also the obvious tightenings and delays of the government, in this regard, are something we're going to consider. You say in a month. We'll see. Your colleague Selakovic promised until March 10th this, by March 10th, what, this law, that law. You promised a lot as a government. Today we see that we have a problem in the legislation again, and this home obviously has to wait for the government to propose these legal solutions. The basic question about this law is – how are we going to apply it? The easiest thing to do is to pass the law, and then not to apply it. Today you have that the Serbian Railways do not have a security certificate, they do not even have a license. It's like someone's running a vehicle that's not registered, and he doesn't even have a driver's license. Such is the situation we currently have, and in such a situation were those unfortunate people in the tunnel some days ago, driving the trains of the Serbian Railways. Director Simonovic didn't even want to see them. No one from the ministry, no one in charge showed up at the scene. It's a practice that exists everywhere in the world. When you're already in charge of a particular resort, then you must be fully prepared to go out to the citizens and tell them. Of course, most of these 22 citizens have the right, but all other passengers, who have found themselves in a very stressful situation. It's not just a physical injury, it's a very stressful situation. We saw how many kids there were. In a composition that does not have, like all other trains in the Serbian Railways, a security certificate, or a license, that is something that Serbian citizens drive. It's a state of railways. A large number of stripes, of these 1,800 kilometers, actually doesn't exist. We are talking about infrastructure management here today and we are talking about that all of this will be run by one society, it is known that it will be the railway Serbia, that it will most likely be holding, so are both Bulgarians and Croats and many others have defined themselves first for holding, and later perhaps for tearing up more companies. We know that someone should manage that holding company. We know that Dragoljub Simonovic, we'll all agree in this room, only someone can say it no, is not able to lead it and most likely will not lead it. It will be an opportunity for a man who finished the Faculty of Union "Nikola Tesla" for an entrepreneur in 2008, even though he is a man, I remember in 1959, meaning to say under the old days. He's the man who took over to run the Serbia Railway, who has 18,500 employees and we all know that we'll take advantage of it, that you'll take advantage of the opportunity to change this law, to establish a new society and replace the man who's going to run that big holding tomorrow when you start. It's the only thing that might be the real reason for this law being passed right now, since you're aware of the kind of man you've given to run the railroad, and it's not good to bow down and say that the opposition was right, but to use a legal solution like this. What's a bigger problem than who's just going to be the CEO is the fate of a large number of employees. This may be an opportunity for when a holding company is established, by transferring property not all employees, but by leaving them in a company that has a great tradition, an old firm, it's nice, it's nice -- stay in the railways, but the railways that will inevitably go bankrupt or bankruptcy, we'll see which model they'll be chosen and those people will of course be out of a job. Whether they will be similar or on what basis will be chosen by those who will move into holding, it is something that raises great doubt and something that should be under great care. This law, as a law, hides a large number of problems that can be expressed in change itself. What's still to be said is that, in addition to the certificates we talked about, safety, even though a large number of miles under the grass today, people can't even come near to cut the grass, to put away ambrosia because the state still wants to manage, in one way, the complete infrastructure that, in our opinion, is not the happiest solution. There's gonna be a lot of problems. Of course, we also see by the amendments submitted by LSV MPs. In fact, it is said that there is no procedure in Serbia. Minister, you know what the deal with the Fiat is about the railroad. I'm going to touch on a subject related to the Kragujevac himself, as well as the regional pathway. Your colleague Verica Kalanovic is very well-acquainted, but I know that you are also familiar with the regional route Kragujevac – Batocina, which is without all the permits. Of course, if, God forbid, any car accident happens, everyone has the right to sue the state, because he was driving a path that doesn't exist, which has no license, which is not allowed to be used. It's something that's dangerous. Minister, we invite you to do one important thing for Kragujevac, for "Fiat", but also for all citizens of Serbia, to drive that road, whether they go to Novi Pazar, Kraljevo, Cačak. You know how important that trip is. We invite you to, because of the importance of a contract with the Fiat for the whole country, to solve the problem of the railway, even if some of the great estrogen stars come to the opening. We are prepared, as Kragujevci, to allocate funds to get something that is very important for both Serbia and Kragujevac. As for other things that this law mentions, it's something that talks about competition, it's about something that's progressing. We're talking about competition in the area of passenger traffic, but also freight traffic. I almost had the opportunity to see that certain railway people boasted that in profit, or traffic, there was no profit, increased participation in passenger traffic. Unfortunately, business activity has fallen well with 90%, which has been freight traffic, which is everywhere in Europe and our neighbours normally, that freight traffic carries most of the rail traffic, today we have 82% freight traffic and 18% passenger traffic. It's something that says that tomorrow we can have competition in freight traffic, but in passenger traffic it'll go a lot harder. You were saying that it would be public transport contracts, that only those shares and the departures they make would receive certain subsidies, as we do with urban traffic in all major cities, so rail traffic would be able to work. What it's gonna look like, nobody knows. We are left to see how this law will be applied to this matter. There's a big dilemma about what's going to happen to passenger traffic and what's their competitiveness right now, the very traffic traffic itself. For the freighters, I say again, there's nothing to worry about. Of course, this law also deals with this topic of freight and passenger life, but that is not the problem of the Serbian railway. The fact that we've introduced competition into passenger and freighters doesn't solve the problem. We all know that the problem isn't really cars and locomotives. They are expensive, locomotives go up to four million euros and over, but the real problems are in infrastructure. Serbia has a railway problem that we will be looking for in a few years for a metal detector. They just can't find where they've been anymore. Only the oldest remembers where the tracks are and that's something that's actually a problem. This law actually avoids the possibility of a long-term solution, maintaining infrastructure and taking responsibility for those who are interested in it. This leaves the possibility that, in case an autonomous province or a local self-government is interested in a particular stock, that it builds a society that will run infrastructure maintenance, but it's very touchy and we'll see how it works. It will certainly be applied in certain cases, but it won't take away. That entrepreneur won't get in, and you know it well. What's the feature of the railroad is that 18 billion dinars are actually thrown into the well every year. For what? Because most, almost 100% of the subsidies, i.e. the transfer funds to the railways, are going to pay. It's not a well because employees receive salaries, but it's something that looks like what we had in many factories, which is buying social peace. As long as it can last, that's a big question. Will the Serbia Railroad or tomorrow that holding company be ready to get money for what he's doing and have some responsibility for that money he's getting from the state, that's a big question? Are you and this government able to ensure the application of this law, that's the biggest question. We're talking about the law being modest, it's just one step, not three, as long as we need it. We're talking about that and that one step is a big question, is with this kind of system of values declared by this government you're able to apply it and that one system of values, which is in the rail, we get money, and we don't have any responsibility, have we realised that transport, have we realized a particular service, simply has to be changed. This law makes it self-initiative. For the next year, there will be a full hunt in the blurry. It'll be a year of adjustment. What it'll look like, we'll see. But it may be one period to give to the railways, it is an important resource of the Serbian state and it is important to make better use of those years, to see the real costs. We don't know how much a train costs us today, how much one of his routes cost us. If we wanted to see how much electricity it spends, how much it spends in the number of employees, their incomes, other belongings, that's something that's total confusion. It'll take us that year, hopefully no more, to see what the situation in the railways looks like. I don't share the optimism of my fellow MPs. I remind you that this law has been extorted so that by the first of June, if we hadn't adopted it, it would have been a big problem. I remind you that the law has not been passed along with the accompanying Security Act, and that speaks of how confused this government has been, how many authorities have found them and how unprepared they are to take serious matters upon their shoulders. What you, Minister, say - came to the government. A lot of laws came to the government, so they stayed there too long. If this law doesn't come into force by September 1st, I'm talking about the Safety Act, we're gonna have a new problem in the railroad. 35 If we only adopt laws to put out fires, then there is no talking about any development, no saving, only the spilling from the hollow to the empty. We are now witnessing that the state is establishing a new holding company that will have several companies. In the perspective, it will separate or not, depending on which practice we choose in the future. We have a risk in the number of employees who will move into a new holding company. We have a risk of implementing all these legal provisions. Is the Ministry of Finance, but is your ministry ready to take a serious job as soon as possible along with the directorate, we said a year at the most? These are all serious problems. There are serious problems, and I say once again, that we have managed to get into a situation so we don't take this chance and pass the right law, not just a minimum of the minimum that Brussels will approve. This is where the EU's trust was tested, as they also give an opinion on this law and you yourself said it had support. We have tested what is the minimum that they will accept, because we are not ready and we are not honest with the changes that are necessary in the railways. That is, to put it that way, the real reason why this law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25915	The word is made by the People's MP Slavica Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25916	Mr. Jovanovic, what does this have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and this debate, yesterday's debate? Mr. Jovanovic, what does this have to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and this debate, yesterday's debate?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25918	Mr. Mitrovica, were you looking for a replica or as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group? Here you go. Mr. Mitrovica, were you looking for a replica or as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25921	President-in-Office, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the planned funding from the Republic's budget for the payment of pension insurance rights in 2014 amounts to 256.10 billion dinars. The participation of these transfers from the Republic's budget in the total revenue and revenue of the Fund in 2014 is 42.21%. Transfers consist of grants from the budget on behalf of the missing funds for payment of PIO allowances of 229,30 billion dinars, which account for 37,79 funds and transfers on behalf of traineeships under special regulations and the difference to the lowest pension of 26.80 billion dinars, with a participation of 4.42%. The government's measures, both by limiting pension growth and by increasing the contribution rate for PIO, have significantly reduced the share of budget transfers to fund financing from around 49% of 2012 to the current 42%. In order to improve the financing structure of the PIO, the Working Group, which was formed by the Fund's Management Board, has made proposals for short-term measures to enable the Fund's financial sustainability to improve and give a more realistic picture of the financing of the pension-inhabited insurance system. Transfer of the pensioner's health financing obligation to the Republic's budget, whose participation in the total expenditure of the Fund is 10.4%, transfer of the obligation to finance compensation for other people's care and assistance, physical damage and disability benefits, persons with disabilities in the second and third categories, to the social protection system. This would, of course, involve a proposal to change legal solutions. These measures in the case of the 2014 plan would reduce the total expenditure and expenditure of the Fund by 81.46 billion dinars, meaning – from 606,70 billion to 525.24 billion dinars. The share of transfers from the Republic's budget would be reduced to 33.25%, so clean donations for missing funds from 37.79 to 28.71%. Since several times past and some earlier days have mentioned the Management Board as one of the Fund's managing bodies, because there is the Supervisory Board, there is also the Director of the Fund, I want to say the following. Article 155 The Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act prescribes how and how a board of directors is formed, which is not a phantom board of directors, but a board of directors established in accordance with the law and says that it has 21 members, by seven representatives of insurance companies, employers and rights users. Member of the 160th said the board of directors submitted a report on the work and financial operations to the Serbian government no later than a month after the decision on the final account was made. As far as the Fund's assets are concerned, the Fund's assets are not government property. The Fund has invested in many state and other projects and competent ministries and the government of Serbia should help the PIO Fund to jointly find ways to solve problems, whether by special law or otherwise, to place the Fund's assets under the auspices of the Fund. The fund is the largest fund in the country and the largest institution in our country. Therefore, it will function in the best way when long-term measures are achieved, which means creating an incentive, business and social environment, reducing the grey economy, effective employment policy, effective fiscal policy, sustainable policy, protection of labour and reducing public spending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25922	And that's because we shouldn't be slaves to the discussion now that comes out of the agenda. And that's because we shouldn't be slaves to the discussion now that comes out of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25924	I consider it necessary to give some information to an esteemed colleague who mentioned Minister Kalanovic and a highway from Kragujevac to Corridor 10. Of course, I did not stand up to defend Mrs Kalanovic, because she has done so much for both Kragujevac and all of Serbia, that there is simply no need to defend her, especially from the Kragujevac people. I find it extremely inadmissible that someone from Kragujevac is attacking that a highway is being built for Kragujevac, that they attack something that brought Fiat to Kragujevac and hired thousands of Kragujevacs. Was there a problem with the planning file? Well, and if there were, I ask an esteemed colleague why during their ministry, Maria Raseta Vukosavljevic, is not that planning documentation done properly? Mrs. Vukosavljevic then dealt with some other problems. Thank you. I consider it necessary to give some information to an esteemed colleague who mentioned Minister Kalanovic and a highway from Kragujevac to Corridor 10. Of course, I did not stand up to defend Mrs Kalanovic, because she has done so much for both Kragujevac and all of Serbia, that there is simply no need to defend her, especially from the Kragujevac people. I find it extremely inadmissible that someone from Kragujevac is attacking that a highway is being built for Kragujevac, that they attack something that brought Fiat to Kragujevac and hired thousands of Kragujevacs. Was there a problem with the planning file? Well, and if there were, I ask an esteemed colleague why during their ministry, Maria Raseta Vukosavljevic, is not that planning documentation done properly? Mrs. Vukosavljevic then dealt with some other problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25927	Thank you. The word is by MP Sanja Cekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25928	Mr. Jovanovic, you no longer have the opportunity to do so, I will not allow you to discuss it that way, to mention yesterday's debate, etc. You cannot deny the MPs the right to explain their amendments. Thank you. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic. Mr. Jovanovic, you no longer have the opportunity to do so, I will not allow you to discuss it that way, to mention yesterday's debate, etc. You cannot deny the MPs the right to explain their amendments. Thank you. Here you go. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Vladimir Djukanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25930	The replica was answered by Mr. Obradovic. Here you go. The replica was answered by Mr. Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25933	Mr. President, respected ministers, the discussion of yesterday's budget is somehow directed towards a solution that tells us everything. An MP who says the budget is real as if he said everything and as if all real problems had been solved economically in Serbia. Those who do not think that he is real, but that he is unreal, then they enter into a story, who is guilty and what is guilty? Following the budget and the budget debate, we have not come to the conclusion that this budget solves the real problems of our citizens in Serbia. Given my very short time, I will deal with only one problem that is most represented in all homes and in all families in Serbia, which is the problem of unemployment. It is measured by a percentage of 20 to 30%, depending on who measures, and in number it comes from 800 to a million people. The laws that preceded the budget, which were the condition that this budget as a realistic-unreal device, were banned, made it impossible for public sector employment over the next two years. Now, if we could imagine the situation for us MPs or our MP clubs to be approached by two young people, who, by interest, are one doctor, and one professor, say, come on, gentlemen of the Parliament, explain to us when we're going to get a job, how and how we're going to start our lives, we'd probably tell the doctor – go to private entrepreneurship, getting a hint of everything that's written in the budget, so he's dealing with, I don't know, playing games. What would we tell the professor? That he deals with a cosmetic salon. The point of the problem is that in the family, young people don't see when they're going to get a job, and the older ones who are somewhere between five and 10 years old, they're going to need to retire and they're afraid they're going to lose their jobs.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25934	I'm advertising a 27th and 104th injury because I was entitled to a replica. I was completely misread because I didn't speak at all when a man laid down as an executioner, nor was I interested in it. I said this is a lobbyist amendment for the next reason, because this particular office has the exclusiveness of a private company that only gives them the opportunity to carry out the execution. That's what I was talking about. I'm glad that the former minister in question told us who this is, and I'm just saying that this is lobbying because you want to allow such offices to continue to have that kind of exclusivity. Thank you. I'm advertising a 27th and 104th injury because I was entitled to a replica. I was completely misread because I didn't speak at all when a man laid down as an executioner, nor was I interested in it. I said this is a lobbyist amendment for the next reason, because this particular office has the exclusiveness of a private company that only gives them the opportunity to carry out the execution. That's what I was talking about. I'm glad that the former minister in question told us who this is, and I'm just saying that this is lobbying because you want to allow such offices to continue to have that kind of exclusivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25936	Here's what I can tell you as a Kragujevčan. I really don't want to talk about the merits of the Honorable Minister, but the Kragujevci know best what their staffing and work looks like, first of all, your party, but let's not get into that debate. This is about reminding me of New Serbia's MP. It looks like Velya's saying - I let you steal a little bit, but, people, you steal. There's another variant here, you just applied one form in which we're talking about there's no license, there's no paper, there's no people traveling along the way, and there's already been a lot of car accidents. I don't want to burden anyone individually that he's responsible for a number of people who have suffered injuries, but unfortunately with a fatal outcome on this section of the road. I don't want to open up a story about the merits, excellent Kragujevci knows what kind of Kalanović has the merits in Kragujevac and what manner of communication with the institutions that need to implement something from its portfolio, but here we are also talking about that something that is done without any permission is precedent, something that you want to introduce into practice. Never mind, it's important there's a way. Do you realize what you're talking about? I'm Kragujevchan and I travel that way every day. Maybe you don't care. You may not care if this road meets the basic criteria, but a large number of Serbian citizens, not only Kragujevcans, do not make this a Kragujevac story, this is a road of national importance and it is called the official regional road, but a large number of Serbian citizens travel it, and it absolutely does not exist on the map. He's not recognised by the basic institutions and the minister can say something about it. We have absolutely a big problem because of the great expertise of the said Minister Kalanovic, who does so according to his opinion, which hides various signatures of various invalid documents. On what basis did she sign certain documents? Because he knows there's got to be enough paperwork for every major project like this. Here's what I can tell you as a Kragujevčan. I really don't want to talk about the merits of the Honorable Minister, but the Kragujevci know best what their staffing and work looks like, first of all, your party, but let's not get into that debate. This is about reminding me of New Serbia's MP. It looks like Velya's saying - I let you steal a little bit, but, people, you steal. There's another variant here, you just applied one form in which we're talking about there's no license, there's no paper, there's no people traveling along the way, and there's already been a lot of car accidents. I don't want to burden anyone individually that he's responsible for a number of people who have suffered injuries, but unfortunately with a fatal outcome on this section of the road. I don't want to open up a story about the merits, excellent Kragujevci knows what kind of Kalanović has the merits in Kragujevac and what manner of communication with the institutions that need to implement something from its portfolio, but here we are also talking about that something that is done without any permission is precedent, something that you want to introduce into practice. Never mind, it's important there's a way. Do you realize what you're talking about? I'm Kragujevchan and I travel that way every day. Maybe you don't care. You may not care if this road meets the basic criteria, but a large number of Serbian citizens, not only Kragujevcans, do not make this a Kragujevac story, this is a road of national importance and it is called the official regional road, but a large number of Serbian citizens travel it, and it absolutely does not exist on the map. He's not recognised by the basic institutions and the minister can say something about it. We have absolutely a big problem because of the great expertise of the said Minister Kalanovic, who does so according to his opinion, which hides various signatures of various invalid documents. On what basis did she sign certain documents? Because he knows there's got to be enough paperwork for every major project like this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25939	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. I will give the word to Mrs Grubeshic, according to the Rules of Procedure, until you determine what is wrong with the card. Here you go, Mrs. Grubeshic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25940	Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement about this? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. Djukanovic. Do you want the Assembly to make a statement about this? No, I don't. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25942	The word has a minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go. The word has a minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25945	I appeal to a member of 101 who says that the National Assembly president can interrupt the National Assembly session to hold a new session, under the obligation to explain the interruption. I don't know if you know what's going on outside the National Assembly. In front of the National Assembly are workers, unions, blocking the National Assembly, unable to approach or exit. They protest the announced adoption of labour laws. Please inform us, you are required to inform us what is going on and around the National Assembly building, so that we can function here normally. That is no wonder, because there is no dialogue with union representatives and workers' representatives in the right way. Here the ease of layoffs has been declared a systemic virtue, and the flexibility of work and workplace has become a new mantra. I ask you that together, as much as we can, we have an impact on solving this problem, especially if the labour law is not done by the ministry that is responsible, to whom it is in the job description.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25946	By amendment. The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in particular, amends the law on enforcement and security relating to the determination of the place of jurisdiction of the perpetrators was done with the intention of making equal distribution of the transfers, on the one hand. So, by amending the law, the Chamber is defined as an organ that will determine the evenness of the perpetrators in the cases. On the other hand, something also important is the regional distribution of the case, when the perpetrator is determined towards the residence or headquarters of the executive debtor. The proposal to determine the local jurisdiction of the perpetrators should apply only to state-owned enterprises, and that private enterprises have the option of selecting the perpetrators cannot support precisely because I believe that the exclusion, in any sense, when determined by the perpetrators, should not exist because it is precisely this way that they will disrupt both criteria defined by law, or amendments to the law, and will also disrupt exactly the balance and regional distribution. So, for these reasons, there can be no exclusive. I therefore suggest that the amendment not be adopted. Thank you. By amendment. The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, in particular, amends the law on enforcement and security relating to the determination of the place of jurisdiction of the perpetrators was done with the intention of making equal distribution of the transfers, on the one hand. So, by amending the law, the Chamber is defined as an organ that will determine the evenness of the perpetrators in the cases. On the other hand, something also important is the regional distribution of the case, when the perpetrator is determined towards the residence or headquarters of the executive debtor. The proposal to determine the local jurisdiction of the perpetrators should apply only to state-owned enterprises, and that private enterprises have the option of selecting the perpetrators cannot support precisely because I believe that the exclusion, in any sense, when determined by the perpetrators, should not exist because it is precisely this way that they will disrupt both criteria defined by law, or amendments to the law, and will also disrupt exactly the balance and regional distribution. So, for these reasons, there can be no exclusive. I therefore suggest that the amendment not be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25948	I didn't want to comment, but I agree with my colleague Mitrovica. That's not the subject, it's the Law on Railways, not the Roads. You'll get a chance to talk. You're wrong, it's not fair that Mrs. Kalanovic, who is one correct woman who does her job professionally, is now getting into the story of the law. That's why we're talking about the law. We're not talking about roads. It's not the only facility that doesn't have a license and you all know it, so I'm not spreading the subject any further now. So, since I've already taken the floor, I want to thank Mirko Chikiriz, not for the political part, but for that professional part. Before that, Mrs Filipovska gave her correct support to the law, which I expected because a lot of your objections had been adopted. Why optimism, Dushan? Optimism because we're starting from some zero. What do we do, we start from scratch. Now that I said one thing here, everyone would be amazed. Zoran Djindjic wanted all these projects to work in 2003. Then, by 2008, I repeat again, no one knew what corridors were in Serbia. No one, not even among the experts, perhaps just Mitrovica. We started in 2008, so we did something, so it goes back to 2009, so we move on. Unfortunately, in Serbia, large infrastructure facilities work from government to government. It's time for your generation, Dushan, to end it. Give some continuity, let's say - this project has to be done for 10 years, let's do it for 10 years. Unfortunately, you're right, political activity isn't such that we could say it today. So, optimism is because this law at least creates preconditions that we can, as you yourself have commended and said a few things, define what this railway directorate is and what its obligations are. You say, "How are we going to look at costs now?" By being the five-year national infrastructure programme adopted here among you in the Assembly, which will control, as well as the budget, some commission from here. That's the thing about infrastructure, there's the biggest cost. Quality is that other companies, other individuals, privates will be able to transport. I repeat, there are people in Serbia today who have means of driving and tow, and they can't come up with a competition in the Railways. These are some things that will be made possible by this new law. Of course, as much as you trust me and this government, we'll make it. If you do not believe, we will see, you will change me, you will bring a better minister who will carry it out. It's already a sign that there must be some optimism. That's why I repeat again, there was no Resav school. It was in my day, Dushan. The laws are, of course, prescribed. Why is it bad if something is good from some law or from European countries? Please, I also said that in the afternoon discussion about the separation of infrastructure from traffic has been said in Europe for 30 years and it is being implemented. It's working somewhere, and somewhere it doesn't work. We just did it in 2013. Let's try and see what happens next. Of course, the inevitable theme of leadership. The management will be chosen by those in charge. Someone said in the afternoon that the Law on Public Enterprises had entered into force. Under the law, all directors will be elected, as the law says. That's how it's gonna be, at least in the vault I run. There shouldn't be skepticism. I'm not a man of great optimism at the age I'm at. What I've been through, in that part I'm not much of an optimist, but I'm optimistic in that part that we have to go and take the first step towards getting our railroad out of the ashes it's in today. Unfortunately, that's the result of 50 years of work. Well said by someone - we all like to ride cars and planes, and nobody likes railways. Unfortunately, that's right. Thank you very much. I didn't want to comment, but I agree with my colleague Mitrovica. That's not the subject, it's the Law on Railways, not the Roads. You'll get a chance to talk. You're wrong, it's not fair that Mrs. Kalanovic, who is one correct woman who does her job professionally, is now getting into the story of the law. That's why we're talking about the law. We're not talking about roads. It's not the only facility that doesn't have a license and you all know it, so I'm not spreading the subject any further now. So, since I've already taken the floor, I want to thank Mirko Chikiriz, not for the political part, but for that professional part. Before that, Mrs Filipovska gave her correct support to the law, which I expected because a lot of your objections had been adopted. Why optimism, Dushan? Optimism because we're starting from some zero. What do we do, we start from scratch. Now that I said one thing here, everyone would be amazed. Zoran Djindjic wanted all these projects to work in 2003. Then, by 2008, I repeat again, no one knew what corridors were in Serbia. No one, not even among the experts, perhaps just Mitrovica. We started in 2008, so we did something, so it goes back to 2009, so we move on. Unfortunately, in Serbia, large infrastructure facilities work from government to government. It's time for your generation, Dushan, to end it. Give some continuity, let's say - this project has to be done for 10 years, let's do it for 10 years. Unfortunately, you're right, political activity isn't such that we could say it today. So, optimism is because this law at least creates preconditions that we can, as you yourself have commended and said a few things, define what this railway directorate is and what its obligations are. You say, "How are we going to look at costs now?" By being the five-year national infrastructure programme adopted here among you in the Assembly, which will control, as well as the budget, some commission from here. That's the thing about infrastructure, there's the biggest cost. Quality is that other companies, other individuals, privates will be able to transport. I repeat, there are people in Serbia today who have means of driving and tow, and they can't come up with a competition in the Railways. These are some things that will be made possible by this new law. Of course, as much as you trust me and this government, we'll make it. If you do not believe, we will see, you will change me, you will bring a better minister who will carry it out. It's already a sign that there must be some optimism. That's why I repeat again, there was no Resav school. It was in my day, Dushan. The laws are, of course, prescribed. Why is it bad if something is good from some law or from European countries? Please, I also said that in the afternoon discussion about the separation of infrastructure from traffic has been said in Europe for 30 years and it is being implemented. It's working somewhere, and somewhere it doesn't work. We just did it in 2013. Let's try and see what happens next. Of course, the inevitable theme of leadership. The management will be chosen by those in charge. Someone said in the afternoon that the Law on Public Enterprises had entered into force. Under the law, all directors will be elected, as the law says. That's how it's gonna be, at least in the vault I run. There shouldn't be skepticism. I'm not a man of great optimism at the age I'm at. What I've been through, in that part I'm not much of an optimist, but I'm optimistic in that part that we have to go and take the first step towards getting our railroad out of the ashes it's in today. Unfortunately, that's the result of 50 years of work. Well said by someone - we all like to ride cars and planes, and nobody likes railways. Unfortunately, that's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25951	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when the law under discussion or what the public is interested in comes to the general procedure of the National Assembly, we are only from that moment on, we as the National Assembly can give our own judgment on it. So we can't talk about a law that's in some draft because the National Assembly hasn't been officially informed about it. Of course, I've been informed there's a protest going on. The protest is being held, these people will be in a short time in front of the National Assembly, then continuing their protest further towards the government building. Otherwise, the National Assembly is on one side only, let me say, there are protesters, on the other hand it's completely open and completely normal. Of course we advocate that every social dialogue should be discussed with the people and with the citizens and with the workers, which the National Assembly through its resolution committees and the activities of the MPs does, so I do not see the need to interrupt this session. After all, the budget is very important for all citizens of Serbia, for all those living in our country. We're going back to work. The word has a People's MP, Mr. Derrett. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25952	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zivan Djurisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25954	Replica was reported by MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go. Replica was reported by MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25957	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that the subject of education has been opened because it is a key topic that I wanted to talk about and it is a consequence of the fact that I understand that this budget has been extorted, but that I am concerned that it does not actually offer any vision of the future and that you see it best in the way that education is treated in this budget. You will say that at this point that part of the budget increased in relation to the rebalanced budget last year, but unfortunately, the cost structure remained absolutely the same, and it does not indicate anywhere the need for radical reform of the education system, on the contrary, it is in many ways retrograde, in many ways, actually blocking the real development of education. I'll give you a little example. To support secondary theological education, more is given to the Commission for the Monitoring and Assessment of the Success of Education. For theological secondary and higher education is given more than for the Commission for the Development of Education and Education in Serbia. I know that we hope that God will help us get out of this crisis, but I think that it will do much more and more successfully the knowledge that young people will receive. In the original version of the budget and in general the laws that have been passed, it was envisaged, among other things, to stop employment for two years in both the fields of education and science, education, higher education and science. KONUS, meaning the Serbian University Rectors' Association has requested a meeting with the Education Committee. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts, only no one from the ruling coalition is present except for the honorable exception of one. And we weren't able to make decisions but just make recommendations that were happily adopted, so now that part has been changed in laws, so teaching staff, research staff, high school can be employed, depending on the needs of the next two years. Unfortunately, this does not apply to other levels of education. In primary, secondary and preschool, you still won't be able to hire new quality people, which means young people, among other things. When it comes to the fact that it's very difficult to nostifify diplomas because we're suffering allegedly because of the great features of brains, and I think the opposite thing is, there are some things that need to be explained. Corporations have no problem with the admission of students returning from abroad because they are not looking for a nostriched degree. Nostricted diploma is wanted by state institutions, including universities and public institutions. So, our public sector, our country defends itself against new knowledge and from new qualifications, not corporations that, of course, always employ those who are qualified for a job that they need to do. It is something that needs to be changed and it should be seen in some way in the budget that is proposed and not seen. The budget proposed for education is simply one set of different pay presentations i.e. contributions made to employees. Whether they are treated as salaries, whether they are treated as specialised services, that is a second question, but in any case a change in budget that is impossible to implement through amendments because the education budget is completely non-transparent, because income is, i.e. The expenditure shown so you don't actually know the relationship. Where are they, for example, in the budget for the procurement of materials for scientific projects? Whoever finds them from me gets all the credit. Because when you talk to people in science, they talk about the necessity of hiring young people and about not having the material to implement their projects. So all the changes you're expecting are possible the moment we have the qualified workforce. With such a system of education, there will be no one to work in this new economy and in these new relationships that you want to establish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25958	President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, just to remind you that, in principle, in the discussion of the authorised representative of the promoter, it is very convincing that these are the reasons that led to the submission of this very proposal to amend and supplement the law on enforcement and security. I also remind you that in the discussions, almost all MPs supported and confirmed that such reasons existed and that such a change was necessary. Unlike the previous amendment, where the solutions given in the proposal are generally accepted, this amendment does not appear to be. In fact, we have heard from the promoters and in previous discussions that special treatment is proposed here for executive trusts if they are owners of private property, and on the other hand, executive trusts if they are public enterprises, i.e. enterprises in the property of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or local self-government. I don't think that's right for the reason I cited it in the previous discussion. On the other hand, is anyone in this room convinced that they are owners of private property and that these creditors are immune to abuses, that they are immune to corrupt acts? There is just as much danger in these situations where executives are owners of private property as in these others. So I don't think it's right to split up, and we've heard here and some of the additional reasons, and in my view, that points to the motives of putting up with one of these. Here, too, the proposal reiterated what the previous amendment said, that in a situation where the debtor, the Republic of Serbia, needs some special treatment, I have already declared that. For these reasons, I propose that this amendment be rejected, that the proposal for a proposal be fully accepted in the Voting Day. Thank you. President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, just to remind you that, in principle, in the discussion of the authorised representative of the promoter, it is very convincing that these are the reasons that led to the submission of this very proposal to amend and supplement the law on enforcement and security. I also remind you that in the discussions, almost all MPs supported and confirmed that such reasons existed and that such a change was necessary. Unlike the previous amendment, where the solutions given in the proposal are generally accepted, this amendment does not appear to be. In fact, we have heard from the promoters and in previous discussions that special treatment is proposed here for executive trusts if they are owners of private property, and on the other hand, executive trusts if they are public enterprises, i.e. enterprises in the property of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or local self-government. I don't think that's right for the reason I cited it in the previous discussion. On the other hand, is anyone in this room convinced that they are owners of private property and that these creditors are immune to abuses, that they are immune to corrupt acts? There is just as much danger in these situations where executives are owners of private property as in these others. So I don't think it's right to split up, and we've heard here and some of the additional reasons, and in my view, that points to the motives of putting up with one of these. Here, too, the proposal reiterated what the previous amendment said, that in a situation where the debtor, the Republic of Serbia, needs some special treatment, I have already declared that. For these reasons, I propose that this amendment be rejected, that the proposal for a proposal be fully accepted in the Voting Day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25960	I absolutely support the minister that we should return to the topic, but before I do, I must say that we from the URS are proud of everything we did in Kragujevac and we wish to do in other Serbian cities as in Kragujevac. I, as a Uzican, would be delighted to have a part of what was done for Kragujevac also done in my Uzica and I hope it will be done. What the citizens of Kragujevac think of Verica Kalanovic and the URS said in the last elections. Forty per cent of the Kragujecans who went to the polls support the policy. What they think of DS policy, they also said in the election. I think it's inadmissible to say that someone signed some papers there. That's highly inadmissible. Imagine if I told you right now that someone from the DS in Agrobanka or at Vojvodina Development Bank signed some documents. That would be extremely inadmissible until proven, and it would prove itself. Thank you. I absolutely support the minister that we should return to the topic, but before I do, I must say that we from the URS are proud of everything we did in Kragujevac and we wish to do in other Serbian cities as in Kragujevac. I, as a Uzican, would be delighted to have a part of what was done for Kragujevac also done in my Uzica and I hope it will be done. What the citizens of Kragujevac think of Verica Kalanovic and the URS said in the last elections. Forty per cent of the Kragujecans who went to the polls support the policy. What they think of DS policy, they also said in the election. I think it's inadmissible to say that someone signed some papers there. That's highly inadmissible. Imagine if I told you right now that someone from the DS in Agrobanka or at Vojvodina Development Bank signed some documents. That would be extremely inadmissible until proven, and it would prove itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25963	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25964	Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Thank you, Mr. Djurishic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25966	Replica, Dusan Obradovic. Replica, Dusan Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25969	I can't defend our education system, nor will I try to do it now, as I won't defend that we haven't fully implemented the programming budget because it's our intention to do next year to introduce additional transparency. What I'm trying to say is that we are in this budget for 2014 predicting the increase and so on. material costs for science compared to this year which, of course, is not enough. The CEB's science credit that has been blocked by defacto all this year has been on the move and will be paid if not these since January of next year, which is also going for those purposes and purposes. You yourself said that, on that committee you mentioned, I think he was also Minister of Education and Science, I personally couldn't come, but he was my first secretary of state on that committee. After that committee and reviewing the situation, passing through appropriate laws and in collaboration with everyone and we have made this amendment regarding employment at high school institutions, as far as scientists and researchers are concerned. So I just want to point out those facts that we've made these little shifts that we've made, and that's the intention of changing these other things you've pointed to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25970	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as one of the legislators of this law, I didn't quite understand the meaning of the amendment, and I listen very carefully to my fellow lawyers to try to explain it to me. I certainly advocate respect for constitutionality. In the light of this amendment, the Proposer is called upon to strictly respect the Constitution. I have great respect for that, especially when it's wanted and done by a former minister of justice. In the Constitution, the judiciary is independent and every advocate for the respect of the Constitution implies that no person employed by a political party can go to work in the prosecution the next day, because it then derogates the independence of the judiciary. Isn't that right, fellow Nikolich? But if the Justice Minister who is employed in the DS does so, the former justice minister, and immediately the next day he goes to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, there is no respect for the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, as one of the legislators of this law, I didn't quite understand the meaning of the amendment, and I listen very carefully to my fellow lawyers to try to explain it to me. I certainly advocate respect for constitutionality. In the light of this amendment, the Proposer is called upon to strictly respect the Constitution. I have great respect for that, especially when it's wanted and done by a former minister of justice. In the Constitution, the judiciary is independent and every advocate for the respect of the Constitution implies that no person employed by a political party can go to work in the prosecution the next day, because it then derogates the independence of the judiciary. Isn't that right, fellow Nikolich? But if the Justice Minister who is employed in the DS does so, the former justice minister, and immediately the next day he goes to the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office, there is no respect for the Constitution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25972	Mr. Mitrovica, I have no intention, you have a concentration problem, don't follow the subject, you put Kalanovicka in this story yourself. It's definitely not Kalanovic's theme, the subject is respect for the rules. We want this country to respect procedures, that this country functions normally. We're absolutely sure the U.S.S. isn't capable of doing that. As for Minister Mrkonjic, I have two applications, very brief. Please don't ever mention Zoran Djindjic, it's really an honest request. The second is, since I, at least, don't remember you, there's a possibility that we know each other from a period when I don't remember, that you don't call me a personal name, because otherwise it's not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. I've got my last name, and first of all, we're talking to each other in function. What's the fact, is that, I only have one question for you – what does it feel like to be the minister responsible for JAT? Long years? We see what you've done to him. Now you're both responsible for the railways and you've been before and we see what condition they're in. What does it feel like to say – there are a number of paths that do not have permits, but are not built recently, there are roads in Serbia that have problems with licenses or are from another period. If we're already on the subject of railways, maybe we can even say that many of them are from the Blue Train period, which today, I'm quite surprised, you didn't mention. But anyway, the fact is that what you're responsible for is not going from zero, it's going from negative. But much of what didn't go away from the minus earlier is your responsibility. Actually, that's what we're talking about. You said today in the railways we're going from zero. Of which, black, zero? Look at the state of the railways and think again about whether we're going from scratch? And JAT, who may have been at zero, even in plus, has, by a series of wrong procedures, come into a situation today that is absolutely not competitive, and there is absolutely no future. It's something you, Minister, are responsible for. That's the real question. Mr. Mitrovica, I have no intention, you have a concentration problem, don't follow the subject, you put Kalanovicka in this story yourself. It's definitely not Kalanovic's theme, the subject is respect for the rules. We want this country to respect procedures, that this country functions normally. We're absolutely sure the U.S.S. isn't capable of doing that. As for Minister Mrkonjic, I have two applications, very brief. Please don't ever mention Zoran Djindjic, it's really an honest request. The second is, since I, at least, don't remember you, there's a possibility that we know each other from a period when I don't remember, that you don't call me a personal name, because otherwise it's not allowed by the Rules of Procedure. I've got my last name, and first of all, we're talking to each other in function. What's the fact, is that, I only have one question for you – what does it feel like to be the minister responsible for JAT? Long years? We see what you've done to him. Now you're both responsible for the railways and you've been before and we see what condition they're in. What does it feel like to say – there are a number of paths that do not have permits, but are not built recently, there are roads in Serbia that have problems with licenses or are from another period. If we're already on the subject of railways, maybe we can even say that many of them are from the Blue Train period, which today, I'm quite surprised, you didn't mention. But anyway, the fact is that what you're responsible for is not going from zero, it's going from negative. But much of what didn't go away from the minus earlier is your responsibility. Actually, that's what we're talking about. You said today in the railways we're going from zero. Of which, black, zero? Look at the state of the railways and think again about whether we're going from scratch? And JAT, who may have been at zero, even in plus, has, by a series of wrong procedures, come into a situation today that is absolutely not competitive, and there is absolutely no future. It's something you, Minister, are responsible for. That's the real question.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25975	The word has Minister Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25976	Mr. Risticevic, please, just go back to the amendment. Mr. Risticevic, please, just go back to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25978	The word is Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go. The word is Mr. Mrkonjic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25981	I'd just like to fill in the Minister on the issue of science, that is, science funding. We see that through these resources that we have allocated to support innovation and innovative companies that our scientific institutions are slowly involved in this process, that with their innovations and things they do they enter the market and that there is a part of the market that is dedicated to these and such projects and companies. These four billion we've separated are just about that part. We want to achieve the result we need by market mechanisms without repeating what Minister Krstic has already said about the issue of reforming the entire education system which I fully support.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25982	Well, I'm in the text of the amendment. Well, I'm in the text of the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25984	I'm sorry, I wrote Dushan down, and I don't know your last name because I don't know you, first time I've seen you, and now I know your last name. About what I'm gonna say, you're not gonna give me a lecture, I'm gonna say what I want to say. Shame on you. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I wrote Dushan down, and I don't know your last name because I don't know you, first time I've seen you, and now I know your last name. About what I'm gonna say, you're not gonna give me a lecture, I'm gonna say what I want to say. Shame on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25987	Milenko Deretta, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25988	Don't speak to another MP personally. Don't speak to another MP personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25990	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Milivojevic. Here you go. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25993	I'm glad you won't defend the education system because it's impossible to defend it. That's very wise, you shouldn't defend what you can't defend. But on the other hand, I expect you to really put it as a priority for this government because it's a long-term investment. You're talking about encouraging scientific work. Who will be the people who will be able to implement these scientific projects? Whether they're going to be here or somewhere out of the country, because they don't have the conditions to start doing what they need for scientific work. That's the first one. Secondly, I have to say that behind this whole action, in my opinion, there is one, I would say, long-term policy that actually intends to weaken state universities and that this kind of incentive, so to say, creating uncertainty among high school science and other staff, directs them to private universities. The last pistachios, where we passed as disastrously as we've been through, have shown the following. Where the state controls education in a way designed in the long term, such as Finland, Finland was the first European country after five Asians to show the best results at the moment, Sweden has suffered a major decline. Because she introduced a large percentage of private education at all levels. There's one more thing I have to say about brain drains. I've heard directly from one of the people who's still at the Ministry of Education that the brain drain is totally fine, because they send a lot of funds from abroad and that's very important for our budget. So, you can disagree with that, of course, I disagree with that, but it's said and it's somewhere present, I think in the minds of those who block the return of these people from abroad to Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25994	I'm not talking to anyone personally. I'm talking about the former justice minister. If it's personal to you... I'm not talking to anyone personally. I'm talking about the former justice minister. If it's personal to you...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25996	Mr. Chairman, I ask you to maintain the dignity of the National Assembly. Everyone here will speak only of what the Rules of Procedure has given him and everyone will act in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, whether it be the People's MP, the Minister, the President of the Assembly, or the President of the Republic. I think in this high house we should preserve the dignity of this home and represent the citizens and their electoral will in the way they express it. We didn't come here to take calls. We didn't come here to take offense. We came here to face arguments and facts. We are the people's MPs, and we were chosen by the citizens. We're the ones who control the government. It has never happened in this House that the government is trying to control the MPs and silence them. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to maintain the dignity of the National Assembly. Everyone here will speak only of what the Rules of Procedure has given him and everyone will act in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, whether it be the People's MP, the Minister, the President of the Assembly, or the President of the Republic. I think in this high house we should preserve the dignity of this home and represent the citizens and their electoral will in the way they express it. We didn't come here to take calls. We didn't come here to take offense. We came here to face arguments and facts. We are the people's MPs, and we were chosen by the citizens. We're the ones who control the government. It has never happened in this House that the government is trying to control the MPs and silence them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u25999	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26000	What does that have to do with this amendment? What does that have to do with this amendment?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26002	I certainly appeal to all the participants in the debate and I think that the debate so far has been going well enough and it has been very well discussed on the agenda subject, so please continue in that direction. Of course, we'll come to the voter's vote. Just tell me which member is injured by the Rules of Procedure? (Srdjan Milivojevic: Article 107) Rules of Procedure. ) All right, Article 107. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go. I certainly appeal to all the participants in the debate and I think that the debate so far has been going well enough and it has been very well discussed on the agenda subject, so please continue in that direction. Of course, we'll come to the voter's vote. Just tell me which member is injured by the Rules of Procedure? (Srdjan Milivojevic: Article 107) Rules of Procedure. ) All right, Article 107. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26005	That's far from the government's intention or the government's policy. Who said that I really don't know, but it's just not like that. Also, this section around the university, to move everything to private, is nowhere in the strategy, nor is it the government's intention. She's a big bum and the question of education and economy is coke and egg, which is older. So it's going to have to be some iterative process of raising each other. We felt that we could move quickly through the budget in the business area, which would then pull the educational part and then have to do in 2014 and 2015 and in the coming years to correct the system in order to get where we needed to come. We fully understand the need to develop education, but we are so deep in the hole right now, because of years of neglect towards the area. We have now found a mechanism that I think will give us a great initial chapel that, that is, the process, its progress and progress, so that this part of education, first through reform of the system, will continue to feed one another. As you grow an economic part, you also need an education to monitor it, and then it enhances the effects of positive society.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26006	Perhaps you were the former justice minister? How does this have nothing to do with the amendment? Since it doesn't matter if someone's trying to respect the Constitution, I support it. In the light of the amendments, the Proposer has advocated compliance with the Constitution. Respect for the Constitution also implies an independent judiciary, which means that people from political parties cannot move on to work in the prosecution, because then the independence of the judiciary and the prosecution is deregated. And when the former minister of justice does, then the question of the quality of the promoter is asked, so how does someone once want to respect the Constitution, and the second time they won't respect the Constitution? You understand? In order to be fully in the amendment, I ask you, when the executive debtor of the state of Serbia as it says in the amendment, is this about paying for mistakes, when, say, someone counter-sustains over 1,000 or about 1,000, my colleagues will escort me if I'm wrong, which is the prosecutor, which is the judge? When damage comes from unpaid personal incomes because they are not constitutionally elected, when the Constitutional Court assesses it, when big damage occurs, and when the state of Serbia is an executive debtor. I ask fellow lawyers here, who executes that kind of decision, who makes up for the damage? I know they're paying the citizens of Serbia. So, the mistakes he commits, say, the State's Major Prosecutors, the mistakes committed by the High Council of the Judiciary or whatever it's called, in which the amendment promoter participates. These mistakes result in millions and millions of dinars, I would like the executive debtor not to be the state of Serbia, but rather to be the executive debtors who contributed to such an anti-constitutional and illegal state, and for whose mistakes the citizens of Serbia must pay the damage and ultimately be debtors on behalf of the Serbian state, not officials who have made obvious failures, with a clear intention that the choice of prosecutors and judges should never be held accountable for their misdeeds. Thank you. Perhaps you were the former justice minister? How does this have nothing to do with the amendment? Since it doesn't matter if someone's trying to respect the Constitution, I support it. In the light of the amendments, the Proposer has advocated compliance with the Constitution. Respect for the Constitution also implies an independent judiciary, which means that people from political parties cannot move on to work in the prosecution, because then the independence of the judiciary and the prosecution is deregated. And when the former minister of justice does, then the question of the quality of the promoter is asked, so how does someone once want to respect the Constitution, and the second time they won't respect the Constitution? You understand? In order to be fully in the amendment, I ask you, when the executive debtor of the state of Serbia as it says in the amendment, is this about paying for mistakes, when, say, someone counter-sustains over 1,000 or about 1,000, my colleagues will escort me if I'm wrong, which is the prosecutor, which is the judge? When damage comes from unpaid personal incomes because they are not constitutionally elected, when the Constitutional Court assesses it, when big damage occurs, and when the state of Serbia is an executive debtor. I ask fellow lawyers here, who executes that kind of decision, who makes up for the damage? I know they're paying the citizens of Serbia. So, the mistakes he commits, say, the State's Major Prosecutors, the mistakes committed by the High Council of the Judiciary or whatever it's called, in which the amendment promoter participates. These mistakes result in millions and millions of dinars, I would like the executive debtor not to be the state of Serbia, but rather to be the executive debtors who contributed to such an anti-constitutional and illegal state, and for whose mistakes the citizens of Serbia must pay the damage and ultimately be debtors on behalf of the Serbian state, not officials who have made obvious failures, with a clear intention that the choice of prosecutors and judges should never be held accountable for their misdeeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26008	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the representatives of the ministry, that's how it is for you, after the divorce, there is a period that is unpleasant for members who were married. Posttraumatic condition. I have the honour of being authorized in front of the DSS for this first act. Otherwise, within this first point are three draft laws. Two draft laws in the area of water traffic. One on internal navigation, one law is a practical agreement between Serbia and Cyprus on maritime and this third, i.e. to say the most important law, as you have seen today, most of all colleagues have talked about the Law on Railways and because it is an important system law because it is an efficient and well-organised rail transport of the great development resource of every country, including Serbia. The previous government, in which the minister in charge of traffic was also Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, sent the bill to the Assembly in 2011. At that time, most of the law was not provided to be passed in the congregation. Those are, I would say, above all, some problems within the then majority, or ruling coalition. But it was one of the few legal proposals that wasn't adopted in the previous session. The MPs and the DSS hoped that you, the minister of the ministry, would take advantage of the opportunity to make more changes to that law that was bad back then. You yourself said that somewhere around 5% of the law of that time was changed. So it's practically the same law that is bad. In fact, to be more specific, this would actually be a very good law if it were to apply to the French railways and to our railways and to have TTV and that we were the French Parliament. But this is not a situation, we live in Serbia and this applies to Serbian railways. I can also commend all of you who have participated in the construction of these EU directives that you have done so well that when a man reads this law, he simply believes that Serbia has been in the EU for about ten years. When a law is done, when it's done, then you always have to start with two things. The first thing is what kind of situation you're in right now. Secondly, what you want to improve and how you want to do it. Earlier, the minister said that when it comes to rail and rail traffic in Serbia, I quote it, he said we are zero and we have to extract the system from the ashes. So, you may have given the best description of what the rail system is in today. It's a little awkward when you talk after all the authorized promoters because then you risk repeating things, I apologize to my colleagues and viewers if anyone follows this transmission. So, what's the state of the railway infrastructure? You said yourself, and the information is known, say, that there are some 200km of railways in Serbia where trains cannot move faster than 20 to 30km. Then, there were a lot of words about how we operate the company that is in charge and deals with the organisation of rail traffic, it is now a.d. society and what is the situation. Such that every year, huge funds are allocated out of the budget, we call them subsidies, I guess that's kind of easier. These subsidies were mainly used to pay salaries, so very few funds went and invested in infrastructure. The volume of transport of goods and passengers is very small, and compared to some other countries, for example, it is somehow forced to compare with Slovakia because it is about the same size country, it has about the same population as Serbia, that it is about 10% smaller than it is in other countries. So, the whole system is bad because it hasn't invested in years, and for years that system's been operating with losses. In the past, and we see that it is happening now, there have been several different acts of restructuring of the "Serb Railway", but the best solution has not yet been found. Why did I bring all this up? Because you, in your explanation, and that's what you said at the outset about this law, said you wanted to integrate the rail system into the transport services market and that the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system is successfully taking place. The aim is therefore to create conditions for competition, i.e. the elimination of monopolies and the emergence of several railway infrastructure managers and several railway undertakings, both goods and passengers, so you are convinced that the appearance of competition will lead to improvement of all services. So, "Serbian Railways" will no longer have a monopoly in organising traffic on their tracks. The law enables the opening of the market and the existence of competition, and that is essentially good, but Serbian railways are not at this moment ready for such a type and so much liberalisation of services and the arrival of foreign companies, and there are several and domestic companies, which have managed to buy a locomotive, employ people who have worked on the railways, but are retired and thus become very competitive. What do the railroads say? For years nothing has been invested, and now such an old and slow railway should compete for jobs and services on the market. That's why we think this is a concrete solution. So, in this law there are some very good solutions that have had to be made already, but this one, I say, this liberalisation of the market will be likely to be fatal to "the railways of Serbia", or that part of them, which is called part of society, which is Kargo Serbia, the question is how competitive they will be. You have experience from other countries in Europe that already have highly developed railway systems, so they waited to settle their situation in their home, and then they just went to market. Then the question arises – why this haste and why do we need such an ultra-European law when it comes to this? So, I repeat, there are some good solutions, but when it comes to this, we put a big problem here. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, the representatives of the ministry, that's how it is for you, after the divorce, there is a period that is unpleasant for members who were married. Posttraumatic condition. I have the honour of being authorized in front of the DSS for this first act. Otherwise, within this first point are three draft laws. Two draft laws in the area of water traffic. One on internal navigation, one law is a practical agreement between Serbia and Cyprus on maritime and this third, i.e. to say the most important law, as you have seen today, most of all colleagues have talked about the Law on Railways and because it is an important system law because it is an efficient and well-organised rail transport of the great development resource of every country, including Serbia. The previous government, in which the minister in charge of traffic was also Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, sent the bill to the Assembly in 2011. At that time, most of the law was not provided to be passed in the congregation. Those are, I would say, above all, some problems within the then majority, or ruling coalition. But it was one of the few legal proposals that wasn't adopted in the previous session. The MPs and the DSS hoped that you, the minister of the ministry, would take advantage of the opportunity to make more changes to that law that was bad back then. You yourself said that somewhere around 5% of the law of that time was changed. So it's practically the same law that is bad. In fact, to be more specific, this would actually be a very good law if it were to apply to the French railways and to our railways and to have TTV and that we were the French Parliament. But this is not a situation, we live in Serbia and this applies to Serbian railways. I can also commend all of you who have participated in the construction of these EU directives that you have done so well that when a man reads this law, he simply believes that Serbia has been in the EU for about ten years. When a law is done, when it's done, then you always have to start with two things. The first thing is what kind of situation you're in right now. Secondly, what you want to improve and how you want to do it. Earlier, the minister said that when it comes to rail and rail traffic in Serbia, I quote it, he said we are zero and we have to extract the system from the ashes. So, you may have given the best description of what the rail system is in today. It's a little awkward when you talk after all the authorized promoters because then you risk repeating things, I apologize to my colleagues and viewers if anyone follows this transmission. So, what's the state of the railway infrastructure? You said yourself, and the information is known, say, that there are some 200km of railways in Serbia where trains cannot move faster than 20 to 30km. Then, there were a lot of words about how we operate the company that is in charge and deals with the organisation of rail traffic, it is now a.d. society and what is the situation. Such that every year, huge funds are allocated out of the budget, we call them subsidies, I guess that's kind of easier. These subsidies were mainly used to pay salaries, so very few funds went and invested in infrastructure. The volume of transport of goods and passengers is very small, and compared to some other countries, for example, it is somehow forced to compare with Slovakia because it is about the same size country, it has about the same population as Serbia, that it is about 10% smaller than it is in other countries. So, the whole system is bad because it hasn't invested in years, and for years that system's been operating with losses. In the past, and we see that it is happening now, there have been several different acts of restructuring of the "Serb Railway", but the best solution has not yet been found. Why did I bring all this up? Because you, in your explanation, and that's what you said at the outset about this law, said you wanted to integrate the rail system into the transport services market and that the integration of Serbian railways into the EU rail system is successfully taking place. The aim is therefore to create conditions for competition, i.e. the elimination of monopolies and the emergence of several railway infrastructure managers and several railway undertakings, both goods and passengers, so you are convinced that the appearance of competition will lead to improvement of all services. So, "Serbian Railways" will no longer have a monopoly in organising traffic on their tracks. The law enables the opening of the market and the existence of competition, and that is essentially good, but Serbian railways are not at this moment ready for such a type and so much liberalisation of services and the arrival of foreign companies, and there are several and domestic companies, which have managed to buy a locomotive, employ people who have worked on the railways, but are retired and thus become very competitive. What do the railroads say? For years nothing has been invested, and now such an old and slow railway should compete for jobs and services on the market. That's why we think this is a concrete solution. So, in this law there are some very good solutions that have had to be made already, but this one, I say, this liberalisation of the market will be likely to be fatal to "the railways of Serbia", or that part of them, which is called part of society, which is Kargo Serbia, the question is how competitive they will be. You have experience from other countries in Europe that already have highly developed railway systems, so they waited to settle their situation in their home, and then they just went to market. Then the question arises – why this haste and why do we need such an ultra-European law when it comes to this? So, I repeat, there are some good solutions, but when it comes to this, we put a big problem here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26011	Mr. Derrett has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26012	Mr. Risticevic, you used the words of this amendment, but I still didn't realize what that had to do with the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Djurishic, you're in business. Mr. Risticevic, you used the words of this amendment, but I still didn't realize what that had to do with the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Djurishic, you're in business.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26014	MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go. MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26017	I don't think there's any science that can solve the question of coke and eggs, so neither can we here for sure. What I'd like to say is that reform cannot be implemented unless the institutions change. The minister has been changed, but I have to say that the Ministry has remained equally closed to any idea of change. And with the budget, as planned, those who need to initiate this, the Education and Educational Development Institute, the Quality Control Institute, are back on track. So we're not going to measure the knowledge we're giving, we're not going to properly evaluate it. We have, of course, a pay issue, that's already being talked about here for teaching staff, etc., but it all really ignores what is the goal of education. And that is the education of young, qualified personnel who are sufficiently flexible in their knowledge, who know that they recognize, who know new technologies, who can quickly adapt to the rapid changes that we have to make. I know that education reform isn't possible in a year or two, but it has to start. There are no items in this budget, other than those four billion for science, conditionally speaking, which is really saying – this is our priority. Let's change education so someone has to use those four billion you're talking about and start a business. I think somewhere, though, that knowledge is what drives the economy, not the economy to influence knowledge in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26018	Dear Chairman, I believe the previous speaker has injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, where he says the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You've tried to distract yourself, but you haven't applied everything the Rules of Procedure gives you to the end. I believe that you had to apply the Rules of Procedure and not allow such an address that was completely out of the agenda and was only served to offend another fellow MP. We can speak politically here and agree and disagree, say what decisions any of us have in some time have as a consequence, whether these decisions will and how the citizens of Serbia will pay. I can say, unfortunately, the decisions this government has made in the past few months will cost Serbia's citizens dearly, they will pay years back. Dear Chairman, I believe the previous speaker has injured Article 107. The Rules of Procedure, where he says the speaker at the National Assembly is obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly. You've tried to distract yourself, but you haven't applied everything the Rules of Procedure gives you to the end. I believe that you had to apply the Rules of Procedure and not allow such an address that was completely out of the agenda and was only served to offend another fellow MP. We can speak politically here and agree and disagree, say what decisions any of us have in some time have as a consequence, whether these decisions will and how the citizens of Serbia will pay. I can say, unfortunately, the decisions this government has made in the past few months will cost Serbia's citizens dearly, they will pay years back.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26020	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Socialist Party Group of Serbia supports and welcomes the efforts made by you and your associates to reach this law and at this stage when we are counting on the debate that was here today, clearly to be adopted. Of course, it would have been good if two years ago this law had been passed, when it was in the procedure, we know why it wasn't adopted, but I think it would have been good and it would have accelerated quite certainly further reforms on the railways. But, as they would say, it is now extremely important to move into the application of this law, and in any case, the law itself creates more opportunities that are extremely important for the state of Serbia, not only for the "Serb Railway" and for the citizens of Serbia. One of these improvements is the efficiency of "The Railway of Serbia", and of course when it comes to public enterprises and when it comes to action societies owned by the state, there is a constant debate on efficiency, but in order to discuss whether or not one company is efficient, or not effective, market conditions must be created. More specifically, conditions of competitiveness must be created, that we have in the area and other businesses, in order to make comparisons. This law just creates it. It creates conditions for the creation of new railway companies, new railways that will take over goods, take over passengers, and in this way we can immediately discuss whether the railway is more efficient, when I say railways, I mean this action society - the state railway, whether it is effective, not effective, whether it needs more funds or not, so that we can develop a better way of railing in general, when I tell the railway Serbia. Of course, the law creates and opens, or creates assumptions for compliance with all European directives, which Minister Mrkonjic also spoke of earlier. Various reforms in Europe's railways last 30 years. Nowhere is a great situation with the railways, it's just a question of how much the economic power of a country is and how much and how well the situation in the railways is. In the end, the most common thing is to create a parallel between one country's economic strength and the economic strength of the railways in the territory. I've heard all kinds of opinions here about how much to invest in the railroad, and nothing's done, etc. I think it's more of a ignorance of the data, as it is elsewhere, let's take it in the neighborhood, for the last 15 years in the Croatian railways, the country invests 650m euros, and they have 1,000km less railways than Serbia, Austrian railways invest four billion a year. A billion, mandatory public transport, now introduced by this law, over two billion and 400 in new railways, 600 million in reconstruction of existing railways. It is precisely because this law effectively creates the obligation to complete the reform on the "Serb Railways" and that the infrastructure of the "Serb Railways" is being separated, I think it is extremely important for both the railways, both for the citizens and the government of Serbia. When it comes to citizens, taxpayers, it's important that they see what money is given for and where money is given. Because when we say it's given so much for the railroad, no one knows how much it's actually given for the railways, for the reconstruction of the railroad, and how much it's given for the mandatory public transport and for the maintenance of public transport. When we say 100 million, 100 million is a great deal of money when it is brought here into the budget of the Republic of Serbia to be given to "the Railways of Serbia" in a year. But 100 million, 100 million is 30 kilometers, 20 miles of railroad to build. Therefore, if that 100 million were to be invested in infrastructure alone, then there would not be left to operate the railways. You know, it's always a lot. This is clear, when the infrastructure is separated as a special holding company, it will clearly see as much as the state can invest money in the development of railway infrastructure, it will be for infrastructure. Citizens will see that it repairs or makes railways and speeds up traffic, but as much as the state can single out for one mandatory public transport, then it will control whether we have a good transport or not. Now that the railways are criticised for going slowly, it's said, the trains are nothing. It's not a question of trains. It's a slow track, not a train. The train and the existing can go 120 kilometers per hour, but it's a railroad thing. I heard a gentleman talking about it earlier, it's not the law, I apologize to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, since he mentioned Dinkic, Djindjic, so I didn't understand Duška why he was objecting. I found Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, with Mr. Dinkic, Djindjic on December 27th 2012, if I'm not mistaken, there was Mr. Lale Sekulić, in fact, in 2002, so yes, then we talked about forming a joint government, and you were talking about the stripes, so that I would testify more that it was true, that it wasn't, and he's young so he doesn't know, he never talked to a man... Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, the Socialist Party Group of Serbia supports and welcomes the efforts made by you and your associates to reach this law and at this stage when we are counting on the debate that was here today, clearly to be adopted. Of course, it would have been good if two years ago this law had been passed, when it was in the procedure, we know why it wasn't adopted, but I think it would have been good and it would have accelerated quite certainly further reforms on the railways. But, as they would say, it is now extremely important to move into the application of this law, and in any case, the law itself creates more opportunities that are extremely important for the state of Serbia, not only for the "Serb Railway" and for the citizens of Serbia. One of these improvements is the efficiency of "The Railway of Serbia", and of course when it comes to public enterprises and when it comes to action societies owned by the state, there is a constant debate on efficiency, but in order to discuss whether or not one company is efficient, or not effective, market conditions must be created. More specifically, conditions of competitiveness must be created, that we have in the area and other businesses, in order to make comparisons. This law just creates it. It creates conditions for the creation of new railway companies, new railways that will take over goods, take over passengers, and in this way we can immediately discuss whether the railway is more efficient, when I say railways, I mean this action society - the state railway, whether it is effective, not effective, whether it needs more funds or not, so that we can develop a better way of railing in general, when I tell the railway Serbia. Of course, the law creates and opens, or creates assumptions for compliance with all European directives, which Minister Mrkonjic also spoke of earlier. Various reforms in Europe's railways last 30 years. Nowhere is a great situation with the railways, it's just a question of how much the economic power of a country is and how much and how well the situation in the railways is. In the end, the most common thing is to create a parallel between one country's economic strength and the economic strength of the railways in the territory. I've heard all kinds of opinions here about how much to invest in the railroad, and nothing's done, etc. I think it's more of a ignorance of the data, as it is elsewhere, let's take it in the neighborhood, for the last 15 years in the Croatian railways, the country invests 650m euros, and they have 1,000km less railways than Serbia, Austrian railways invest four billion a year. A billion, mandatory public transport, now introduced by this law, over two billion and 400 in new railways, 600 million in reconstruction of existing railways. It is precisely because this law effectively creates the obligation to complete the reform on the "Serb Railways" and that the infrastructure of the "Serb Railways" is being separated, I think it is extremely important for both the railways, both for the citizens and the government of Serbia. When it comes to citizens, taxpayers, it's important that they see what money is given for and where money is given. Because when we say it's given so much for the railroad, no one knows how much it's actually given for the railways, for the reconstruction of the railroad, and how much it's given for the mandatory public transport and for the maintenance of public transport. When we say 100 million, 100 million is a great deal of money when it is brought here into the budget of the Republic of Serbia to be given to "the Railways of Serbia" in a year. But 100 million, 100 million is 30 kilometers, 20 miles of railroad to build. Therefore, if that 100 million were to be invested in infrastructure alone, then there would not be left to operate the railways. You know, it's always a lot. This is clear, when the infrastructure is separated as a special holding company, it will clearly see as much as the state can invest money in the development of railway infrastructure, it will be for infrastructure. Citizens will see that it repairs or makes railways and speeds up traffic, but as much as the state can single out for one mandatory public transport, then it will control whether we have a good transport or not. Now that the railways are criticised for going slowly, it's said, the trains are nothing. It's not a question of trains. It's a slow track, not a train. The train and the existing can go 120 kilometers per hour, but it's a railroad thing. I heard a gentleman talking about it earlier, it's not the law, I apologize to Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, since he mentioned Dinkic, Djindjic, so I didn't understand Duška why he was objecting. I found Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, with Mr. Dinkic, Djindjic on December 27th 2012, if I'm not mistaken, there was Mr. Lale Sekulić, in fact, in 2002, so yes, then we talked about forming a joint government, and you were talking about the stripes, so that I would testify more that it was true, that it wasn't, and he's young so he doesn't know, he never talked to a man...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26023	The word has been made by the People's MP Milet Poscurica. MILLET SUPPORT: Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, on behalf of the SNS, I would like to refer to several items. In two sections, more specifically, the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Health. Before I go to these segments that I think are in my area of interest, so that I can contribute more to them in the debate, I would refer to this global budget expenditure table which is very nice and since it's a thousand billion, it can talk a lot about just one change of these expenditures, for those who are potentially interested in getting into it, means a billion dinars. So a very big interest is in those who need to be calmed down with butter. The fact is that nearly two-thirds of the budget goes to various social contributions, salaries and transfer funds, more than that, almost two-thirds. It is quite understandable that attention should be paid to the need for those who have received budgets with them and to be properly available. In part of the general story, I'd like to ask a question, maybe produce the necessary comment, and about the fact that the transfer funds were donated to different cities. Of course, there are legal criteria. My question is whether they might be properly pushed, because the law hasn't been in force for so long, maybe the second time in the budget we're making those decisions, and the fact that, let's say, the Kragujevac went the way it went. It's the town I belong to. I'm going to go a little bit local, and by the rule of law, the Assembly shouldn't do it, but it should cover the obligations and equality of participants in the budget. On the one hand, compared to much smaller cities, is he in the category, second, third, first, is it because "Fiat", where 2,500 people work... That's 1% of the total population. He's pulling up the city so much he's getting so little transfer funds. That's an important question for Koseric as well. Did the statistics, which are applied in the assessment of income from that territory, and the municipality, receive only 43 million according to this proposal. Really small funds. It is that "Titan" draws, in proportion to the number of employees, and by the number of persons who have paid, large incomes, but it is still a small number of people who work in relation to the entire municipality. Is this statistical processing of the Republic Bureau of Statistics or the Ministry of Finance or something else or something in between supposed to help to perhaps be more correct than usual, because it's hard to understand that Novi Sad is less developed than Kragujevac and has twice as much resources, and that so many Alexines are below all criteria, or, say, Kruševac has more resources than Kragujevac in this distribution? It did not "Fiat" bring so many new jobs, and it challenged city administration decisions to eliminate many budgetary inflows for the next 10 years, to make a favourable financing environment and to bring in a foreign partner. So I think we should think about it. I don't think there was a technical error in the work, I don't think that's possible, but if the criteria are valid. Finally, everything needs to be checked, so why not the criteria of the law. Otherwise, we learned to change what doesn't work. I'd move on to the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. They won more this year than last year, about 188 billion dinars. It's distributed to classic budget users. What I would like to say in this part of this part, the editing, the control of the education system and everything else, is that it's very important to actually carry out control of what is being spent in different positions, primarily through different projects and different programs. That applies to both this and the Ministry of Health. The primary education of 75, nearly 76 billion dinars, of which 2-3 billion goes to preschool and really covers a good deal of significant investments. There is a significant increase in training, professional training of employees. I guess this is about trying to go in a better quality way of education, contributing to quality, significantly giving funds to the student competition, improving funds or increasing the resources that are dedicated to construction, school infrastructure and assistance. In secondary education, funds are higher than they were, about billions are totaled for this year. It is significantly given for students' competitions, and perhaps the question should be asked, almost 16 million go from that position to working with talented, gifted students, do they really engage institutions and follow the flow of money for those who are obliged to help these children, to show their gift and talent? It's not about the general section, when it's spoken at the beginning of this sector, as it's listed in the budget... It is not the correct fact that, for example, an institution as important as Vinca cannot be included in an institution that will be used to promote science. Maybe someone out there can do something. Why is it that in the strategy we define ourselves to create a science promotion centre, when, as is projected, close to 40m euros will cost to create this cosmic miracle and then equipment? Wasn't it in a building sense that we could move the center, if we wanted it to act integrally for all of Serbia, and not every city for itself to promote science, to do so in many empty spaces that exist in the space, which already exist, which may not be conditioned until the end, but to fix, to do so. When we talk about Vinci alone, I don't see, apart from project funding, whether enough is taken care of by this higher education and scientific institution that cherishes a truly sophisticated chamber? As far as the public knows, there is a problem there and to establish a specific administration, to set up a director. Is there any best or enough good co-operation with the President of the Management Board and the Scientific Council, therefore, two institutions that operate the fate of teachers and employees and scientists working there? There were talks about a project concerning Vince, that the programme concerning Tesla and the accelerator should have been converted, renamed in another way. This was a strong basis for maintenance and fundamental and maintenance, of course, research that has pragmatic, practical use in health care, diagnostics and treatment. Of course, the scientific research segment, it was certainly worth orderly size how much we're going to give to just do that miracle in New Belgrade, where the children will come back to learn, to understand that it's nice to do science. They won't be able to conduct scientific experiments here. They have somewhere to work, finally, in Serbia and on that plan. In secondary education, I would like to possibly praise the fact that a lot of thought was made about this student standard, the student standard, about their homes, about improving infrastructure, but also about asking questions - and what about the student standard? That's, of course, double the amount. For the public, when you add up the student and student standards, that's just as much as the entire health ministry gets, about 12, 13 billion. Are these children really going to get from that same ministry the right to insurance and these students to treatment, health insurance, etc.? They'll use those rights on that basis. It's gone so far. But why am I asking? It's quite nice when it says here that the quality of the food will improve, the conditions of the accommodation, that it will go to renovations. Will those who follow from the ministry be able to be interested to the end, to check whether at that time the funds that go may have been used to open some other facilities? Do these student centres, the institutions of the student standard, open up their daughters, introduce their daughters to colleges, hospitals, and then enter the market without competition, because, by making an internal contract with an institution that is also financed by the budget? I would like to ask a question within the Ministry of Health, with projects that I cannot dispute should exist, a general remark on whether within the projects that exist in the Ministry of Health we can transfer from direct project financing from the Ministry of Health to the Institute of Health, especially because he has a camera that can do this? Themes that he, the information he needs to get, will be done by working groups, for example, chronic, renal insufficiency, diagnostics, frequency, frequency project, diabetes mellitus, rheumatism frequency projects, and the frequency of this or that. Is this all to be put on an institution that is functionally, operationally powerful and competent, because it has its own facilities in all the regions in Serbia and huge funds, close to 900 billion Batut and other public health institutions in Serbia, to carry out these statistical research, not to go on project financing? A lot of projects inside the health care sector have been launched. Some are even duplicated, and some are completely unclear, ad hoc created, such as the prevention of West Nile disease, the prevention of infections that occur in the form of tick fever. So, as he realized, how close it was to the ministry to gain influence, that his or a group of these people were pushing the project into project financing. It's not, of course, all about large funds, about a million, a million and a half, two, about eight, 10, 12 or 13 million. The crown of all is that many of these projects include Batut, his experts, together with the health ministry people, to control how the project is implemented. We are not aware, some science projects, 17m euros have long been defined to equip IT technology with computers, Serbia equipment schools and wherever necessary. How did this project end? How long has he been escorted? Are all the money used for that? Should we open these same enquiries with these, conditionalally speaking, small or large objects that we need to talk about today in Serbia? In practical application, many of the projects that are implemented mean for a doctor a paper format A4, on which questions are asked, less or more over, on which the doctor general practices go and check whether the patient has this and that disease. Are we sinful to other diseases? Let's get the disease register, get the code book, and make some specific identification guide for every disease. When you recognize it, it's so-called. Scanning, calling people on voter lists. So is this dil system that we have leading us to keep going in some unusual way of spending money? That's not a question for this furniture sitting here. It is a question of innovation, the innovative functioning of the Ministry of Health. One of these programs is, for example, a direct observation of tuberculosis, the treatment of this disorder. In a conversation with colleagues who do so, this doc program implies exhausting meetings of practitioners, experts, secondary and tertiary healthcare professionals, who go to listen to about tuberculosis, something they passed, which they know by describing their daily activities. When you look at whether the cost of treatment is what it's like for that so-called. The World Health Programme predicts who's carrying it? He's carrying the Fund. Any tuberculosis, drugs for another line in resistant forms? There isn't. Not the group that draws several dozenm euros in its project to define means of treatment for Ozren those who have resistant forms of tuberculosis. So these projects have their drawbacks. There is the impression that sometimes they are made according to the image and part of a group of interested people, so it is no wonder that some prominent names leave these projects, come out of such projects, and leave the need for those from the interior, doctors, to simply push for such improvements to go and to do something and show it as an innovative activity. The final message is to consider the shares by which the funds are spent, which has been allocated to the health care budget, because the most important part of improving the conditions and quality of work is relatively small in this, and it refers to the equipment of institutions in secondary, tertiary and primary health care. Staff equipment, there should be a pool of money, and epidemiology, statistical data, give Batutu to work and a little bit of serious need for every possible diagnosis to be carried out through some sort of screening program and get final epidemiological data, I don't know who they're sending to, and they should end up in Batut and show it in their white book for all of Serbia, and then, according to their offices, every region, every clinic, so that everyone knows what they've been doing, as long as they've come and how important it is for budget projections in this segment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26024	Mr. Djurishic, what does this have to do with what you've just said with the breach of the Rules of Procedure? If you're warning someone else to stick to the Rules of Procedure, that's what you should do. Especially as the head of the parliamentary group. Please, after warning, Mr. Risticevic used the words, I have an amendment in front of me, he used the word around the perpetrator, he used the words of the amendment, and I didn't have the opportunity to break it. You know that very well. Its right is in which it can explain why it supports or contests an amendment. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, thank you. ) The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Biljana Pantic Pija, from the place: No, but as authorised. Yes, you have the advantage since there are more reported, you have the advantage as authorized. Here you go. Mr. Djurishic, what does this have to do with what you've just said with the breach of the Rules of Procedure? If you're warning someone else to stick to the Rules of Procedure, that's what you should do. Especially as the head of the parliamentary group. Please, after warning, Mr. Risticevic used the words, I have an amendment in front of me, he used the word around the perpetrator, he used the words of the amendment, and I didn't have the opportunity to break it. You know that very well. Its right is in which it can explain why it supports or contests an amendment. Do you want the Assembly to plead? (Marko Djurisic, from the place: No, thank you. ) The word has a folk MP Biljana Pantic Pilja. Injury of the Rules of Procedure? (Biljana Pantic Pija, from the place: No, but as authorised. Yes, you have the advantage since there are more reported, you have the advantage as authorized. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26026	Please, let's get back to the subject. Please, let's get back to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26029	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Verica Kalanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26030	I just want to relate to what my colleague Risticevic said. He was talking about an amendment that had to be rejected and he had to make a parallel. We're talking about judicial reform, judicial law, so I don't see where he hurt his Rules of Procedure. He really had to mention the 2010 reform that destroyed the judiciary. So I don't know why someone's complaining and saying someone's offended by the MPs. No, he was talking about judicial reform and the former minister. So please, colleague Risticevic was really right. Thank you. I just want to relate to what my colleague Risticevic said. He was talking about an amendment that had to be rejected and he had to make a parallel. We're talking about judicial reform, judicial law, so I don't see where he hurt his Rules of Procedure. He really had to mention the 2010 reform that destroyed the judiciary. So I don't know why someone's complaining and saying someone's offended by the MPs. No, he was talking about judicial reform and the former minister. So please, colleague Risticevic was really right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26032	I'm sorry, but I had to defend the minister from something that's true. So, just to tell the truth, it doesn't matter if I defend myself. Why I think it's important, on the other hand, that the taxpayers understand, because you know what, when we talk about the performance of a railway, and whether it's effective or not, we often view it as a collection until it separates under this law. When we say "Lasta" is as successful as a company, "Lasta" is not made by highways, it comes out on a toll ramp, pays tolls, I mean their bus and drives. This is where the conditions are created for this law to happen, that even the state passenger traffic on the railway when accessing the railway pay by mile as far as it goes along that railway line, but also some future private operators in passenger or freight traffic under the same conditions will pay for access to the infrastructure, which would tell me the toll, or maybe some two or three municipalities will build a joint railway company or Vojvodina will do, is not that a problem either. Let the AP build a railway company and get a path from the infrastructure, drive there under the same conditions, so let's see if it's successful or not successful, then you'll know what one is, what else is, what is the efficiency of the infrastructure. Otherwise, I have to say that the Serbian government and Minister Mrkonjic, along with the railway past management, and this now, we have in fact prepared what the Serbian government is supposed to propose, and stems from this programme, presents the National Programme for the Development of Infrastructure on the Railways of Serbia, more specifically said development over the next five years. We have, very clearly, there is, as we have discussed here many times, several of these important projects, and some are already in progress. There are loans from the EBRD of Russian railways, but let me just point out those projects that are now practically under way. It is a bridge in Novi Sad, Željev Bridge, which is 45m euros in value, then, which is to be completed next year on Moravi, which is eight, ninem euros, which is actually threatening to complete the 10.5km Gilje-Cuprija track and electrification of the two-wheel track, 25m euros and the project ends in 2014. Material was purchased for six shares in Corridor 10 in the length of 112km, 30m euros from the EBRD, and will be worked from a Russian loan, meaning reconstruction on Corridor 10, 112km of railway. There is a Belgrade railway node that we adopted here, verifies a 25m-euro loan for the fourth, fifth and sixth track. There is a Russian loan of 800m euros, more specifically 920m dollars, not the euro, because 15% is the state's participation and it is clear what is being built out of it. There was a question here, how many trains? A hundred million dollars of trains, about 25, 26, 27, will be in negotiations, it is a matter of negotiators, a diesel of motor trains, with 21 electric trains that the "Serb Railway" has signed in fact, and the following year since September each month come for two trains. We will in the next five years and with these investments come into a position that when we have separate infrastructure on the one hand, and on the other hand clear and precise rules for goods transport and passenger transport, we will end up reforming on the one hand, and create conditions that we have one serious and good railway. You know, when we say - people won't drive on trains; I have to tell you that's not true. Before that, let's say what is the condition, because when it comes to repairs, we have a yearly need to reconstruct 191 kilometers of rail. We averaged 11 kilometers, and it's not now this year, it was 2000, 2001, 2002, 2005, 2007 i2008. A year. So, every year 180 kilometers we've done less construction of the railroad than we should have done, or to be more precise and fairer, that's from 1990 to today. It's been a little more than 1990 since 2000, a little bit 17 kilometers a year, but you throw out, it's an average of 11 kilometers more than after 2000, we've done more reconstruction. When it comes to passenger transport, that the people do not want to drive by train, I must tell you, 45 million passengers were transported in 1989 in one year by the railways of Serbia. In 2010, it is 7.5 million, but if this segment clearly emerges from this law, which is why it is necessary for the budget of the following year to provide for the means of mandatory public transport and when it comes to the republic and when it comes to the city, the province and the municipalities, I am absolutely certain that what we received last year, which is 16.5 million transported passengers compared to 2010 when it was 7.5, where is the difference? The difference is "BG train". A contract with Belgrade was signed on a Pančeva Bridge-Batajnica route, so we transported 12 million passengers to the Batajnica-Pančeva Bridge in Belgrade last year. Imagine that we have another fifteen trains that are supposed to be interested together and buy, that we have a link between Rakovica-Pančeva Bridge, Rakovica-Batajnica, I am absolutely sure that we could take 30-40 million passengers to Belgrade by next year. It's not a question of the use of railways, it's just, it's a question of what was said here, environmentals, it's a question of roads, city streets, it's a question of spinning, it's a question of hundreds of other advantages if something like that happened. Therefore, I believe that if this plan and programme should be adopted when it comes to infrastructure here in parliament, that we can count on the next period that Minister Mrkonjic was talking about in 2012, 2017, 2017, "The Railways of Serbia", but I am talking about passenger traffic, the transport of more than 50 million passengers, and I am not telling you this unreal. They're not unreal figures. Let me compare it again. The Croatian railway carried 72 million passengers, of which 60 million when it comes to Zagreb and the environment, means, when it comes to some kind of wider city railway, not just Zagreb itself. When it comes to reforms themselves, this law provides for the conclusion of reforms on the railways. One phase has been the transition from a public company to a stock company, and the second stage is that the actual assembly of the AD Railways of Serbia has adopted the programme, and there may now be some changes, and that is what the minister has been talking about. Four companies are scheduled, one is the infrastructure, which the law provides here, the second is passenger traffic, the third is freight and the fourth is rail property management. That would mean that if we did the job when it came to the next budget with a public transport obligation, that we actually have for the next year the financing of the railway not by some mass of money, but by the work done. If we get some private or other railway administrations, we can clearly compare the efficiency of one or the other under the same conditions. After all, it's important for taxpayers to be able to tie up. For the state, I guess it's important that with the same means it can transport more people, and whether it will transport, in the end, to be honest, AD "The Railways of Serbia" passenger transport, or AD "The Railways of Serbia" goods transport or some other railway administration, I think that if we are talking about competitiveness, if we are talking about the market economy is not the most important. It's important to come from 16 million passengers to 50 million. It's important that we arrive at about 80-100 average kilometers on the track from the average mile for passenger traffic. It's important that at 25 kilometers of average freight speed, we get to 60-70, that this train from Subotica to Dimitrovgrad can arrive in about 10-12 hours, and sometimes we drive in 10 hours from Sudotica to Dimitrovgrad, so that traffic doesn't go to Corridor 4. It's not going to Corridor 4. The freight traffic because someone loves us or doesn't love us, but because the minister talked about it, about the problem of the border, keeping it at the borders long, because the average is 25, so it's easier for him to get there, there's only one border between Bulgaria and Turkey, and here it's stuck at several border crossings, and then the train knows it's standing 12 hours at the border because of one, another, third, fifth inspection. Therefore, I deeply believe it is not false optimism, I deeply believe that this strategy of the government and the ministry can ensure that, in the next fifth annual rail plan, at least above the average railway in this region, or someone on the railways thinks that they will compete with Austrian railways that carry 200 million passengers, but four billion per year, nor with German railways that plan to spend 36 billion euros on new railways and 16 for reconstruction of existing railways, but in this area of Southeast Europe, I think that "Serbian Railways" can provide, to be a leader in the extreme case. If we were important not only for us, the quality and success of "Serb Railways", but also for Croatia and Slovenia, and that was the word here, the pawnage that was on which Minister Mrkonjic was also on, not only insisted, but worked on it, together with ministers from Slovenia and Croatia, to form a joint venture, Corridor 10, in order to return part of the goods that went to Corridor 10 from 1989 to 1990 through Serbia through Slovenia and Croatia to that corridor. If we were to return 30-40% of the goods that used to go on this corridor, we would certainly have twice as much income in cargo traffic as we have today. I think cargo traffic, i.e. freight traffic, goods traffic and today 50% of the total goods produced in Serbia produce it. That's how it's always been -- as much as the gross national income and the production of kabaste goods in Serbia is increasing, I'm quite sure with this element that's also here, with the government's incentive when it comes to combined transport, it's organized, the railway will drive 50% of the goods produced in Serbia in the future. We have to make more to have something to drive. When it comes to the role of the Railways Directorate, you know, it's very important, and it's one important element of this law, that the Railways Directorate gets that right function of a regulatory body. There has been an exact push for more of these EU agencies. The ministry agreed, in agreement with the people of the EU, that this could be done by one directorate, not by making two, three directorates, and for traffic security, and for one, and for the other, and for the third. By creating these conditions, that the agency be not some spare body of the Serbian Railways, but an independent regulatory body for granting licences, for granting consent, for other operators, I deeply believe that we can also build a market on the railways and build a market railway to the extent that it does not mean that there is no income from the state when it comes to mandatory public transport in infrastructure, but rather about equality with other economic operators, with some private operator in passenger traffic, who will also have mandatory public transport as well as public railways, but that in this I think railways are trained. We can listen to all kinds of stories about it here - he's got a license, he's got no license. Don't scare people. At the very least, let's take a look at that May 1st. Let's take a look at the last year. Let's take a look at the last five years. How many people had any accidents on the railways, and how many on the highway, on roads across Serbia? Serbia's railways, if they have one of the most important and important elements, is the fight and engagement for traffic security. That's what I think they achieve significant results. A personal mistake or a engineer's mistake can always happen. That's what you'd say, a personal mistake that's possible. The railroad is still the safest means of transport and it will remain. If that were the case, without a license, without permission, where would we end? The railroad is still an organized system. The Socialist Party of Serbia absolutely supports the law. I deeply believe that the ministry, along with the Serbian Railways Assembly, will end reforms by the next two or three months, by September of the month, more precisely, bring to an end what we have agreed so far with the formation of dependent companies and holding companies and that the new budget law will provide the position of mandatory public transport, not more donations, to adopt a national infrastructure plan. Once again, I say he's very clear. I deeply believe that in the next five years we can talk in a completely different way, even more affirmative, even though today we can speak affirmatively about the railway. I want you to have this law unanimously passed in Parliament. Thank you. I'm sorry, but I had to defend the minister from something that's true. So, just to tell the truth, it doesn't matter if I defend myself. Why I think it's important, on the other hand, that the taxpayers understand, because you know what, when we talk about the performance of a railway, and whether it's effective or not, we often view it as a collection until it separates under this law. When we say "Lasta" is as successful as a company, "Lasta" is not made by highways, it comes out on a toll ramp, pays tolls, I mean their bus and drives. This is where the conditions are created for this law to happen, that even the state passenger traffic on the railway when accessing the railway pay by mile as far as it goes along that railway line, but also some future private operators in passenger or freight traffic under the same conditions will pay for access to the infrastructure, which would tell me the toll, or maybe some two or three municipalities will build a joint railway company or Vojvodina will do, is not that a problem either. Let the AP build a railway company and get a path from the infrastructure, drive there under the same conditions, so let's see if it's successful or not successful, then you'll know what one is, what else is, what is the efficiency of the infrastructure. Otherwise, I have to say that the Serbian government and Minister Mrkonjic, along with the railway past management, and this now, we have in fact prepared what the Serbian government is supposed to propose, and stems from this programme, presents the National Programme for the Development of Infrastructure on the Railways of Serbia, more specifically said development over the next five years. We have, very clearly, there is, as we have discussed here many times, several of these important projects, and some are already in progress. There are loans from the EBRD of Russian railways, but let me just point out those projects that are now practically under way. It is a bridge in Novi Sad, Željev Bridge, which is 45m euros in value, then, which is to be completed next year on Moravi, which is eight, ninem euros, which is actually threatening to complete the 10.5km Gilje-Cuprija track and electrification of the two-wheel track, 25m euros and the project ends in 2014. Material was purchased for six shares in Corridor 10 in the length of 112km, 30m euros from the EBRD, and will be worked from a Russian loan, meaning reconstruction on Corridor 10, 112km of railway. There is a Belgrade railway node that we adopted here, verifies a 25m-euro loan for the fourth, fifth and sixth track. There is a Russian loan of 800m euros, more specifically 920m dollars, not the euro, because 15% is the state's participation and it is clear what is being built out of it. There was a question here, how many trains? A hundred million dollars of trains, about 25, 26, 27, will be in negotiations, it is a matter of negotiators, a diesel of motor trains, with 21 electric trains that the "Serb Railway" has signed in fact, and the following year since September each month come for two trains. We will in the next five years and with these investments come into a position that when we have separate infrastructure on the one hand, and on the other hand clear and precise rules for goods transport and passenger transport, we will end up reforming on the one hand, and create conditions that we have one serious and good railway. You know, when we say - people won't drive on trains; I have to tell you that's not true. Before that, let's say what is the condition, because when it comes to repairs, we have a yearly need to reconstruct 191 kilometers of rail. We averaged 11 kilometers, and it's not now this year, it was 2000, 2001, 2002, 2005, 2007 i2008. A year. So, every year 180 kilometers we've done less construction of the railroad than we should have done, or to be more precise and fairer, that's from 1990 to today. It's been a little more than 1990 since 2000, a little bit 17 kilometers a year, but you throw out, it's an average of 11 kilometers more than after 2000, we've done more reconstruction. When it comes to passenger transport, that the people do not want to drive by train, I must tell you, 45 million passengers were transported in 1989 in one year by the railways of Serbia. In 2010, it is 7.5 million, but if this segment clearly emerges from this law, which is why it is necessary for the budget of the following year to provide for the means of mandatory public transport and when it comes to the republic and when it comes to the city, the province and the municipalities, I am absolutely certain that what we received last year, which is 16.5 million transported passengers compared to 2010 when it was 7.5, where is the difference? The difference is "BG train". A contract with Belgrade was signed on a Pančeva Bridge-Batajnica route, so we transported 12 million passengers to the Batajnica-Pančeva Bridge in Belgrade last year. Imagine that we have another fifteen trains that are supposed to be interested together and buy, that we have a link between Rakovica-Pančeva Bridge, Rakovica-Batajnica, I am absolutely sure that we could take 30-40 million passengers to Belgrade by next year. It's not a question of the use of railways, it's just, it's a question of what was said here, environmentals, it's a question of roads, city streets, it's a question of spinning, it's a question of hundreds of other advantages if something like that happened. Therefore, I believe that if this plan and programme should be adopted when it comes to infrastructure here in parliament, that we can count on the next period that Minister Mrkonjic was talking about in 2012, 2017, 2017, "The Railways of Serbia", but I am talking about passenger traffic, the transport of more than 50 million passengers, and I am not telling you this unreal. They're not unreal figures. Let me compare it again. The Croatian railway carried 72 million passengers, of which 60 million when it comes to Zagreb and the environment, means, when it comes to some kind of wider city railway, not just Zagreb itself. When it comes to reforms themselves, this law provides for the conclusion of reforms on the railways. One phase has been the transition from a public company to a stock company, and the second stage is that the actual assembly of the AD Railways of Serbia has adopted the programme, and there may now be some changes, and that is what the minister has been talking about. Four companies are scheduled, one is the infrastructure, which the law provides here, the second is passenger traffic, the third is freight and the fourth is rail property management. That would mean that if we did the job when it came to the next budget with a public transport obligation, that we actually have for the next year the financing of the railway not by some mass of money, but by the work done. If we get some private or other railway administrations, we can clearly compare the efficiency of one or the other under the same conditions. After all, it's important for taxpayers to be able to tie up. For the state, I guess it's important that with the same means it can transport more people, and whether it will transport, in the end, to be honest, AD "The Railways of Serbia" passenger transport, or AD "The Railways of Serbia" goods transport or some other railway administration, I think that if we are talking about competitiveness, if we are talking about the market economy is not the most important. It's important to come from 16 million passengers to 50 million. It's important that we arrive at about 80-100 average kilometers on the track from the average mile for passenger traffic. It's important that at 25 kilometers of average freight speed, we get to 60-70, that this train from Subotica to Dimitrovgrad can arrive in about 10-12 hours, and sometimes we drive in 10 hours from Sudotica to Dimitrovgrad, so that traffic doesn't go to Corridor 4. It's not going to Corridor 4. The freight traffic because someone loves us or doesn't love us, but because the minister talked about it, about the problem of the border, keeping it at the borders long, because the average is 25, so it's easier for him to get there, there's only one border between Bulgaria and Turkey, and here it's stuck at several border crossings, and then the train knows it's standing 12 hours at the border because of one, another, third, fifth inspection. Therefore, I deeply believe it is not false optimism, I deeply believe that this strategy of the government and the ministry can ensure that, in the next fifth annual rail plan, at least above the average railway in this region, or someone on the railways thinks that they will compete with Austrian railways that carry 200 million passengers, but four billion per year, nor with German railways that plan to spend 36 billion euros on new railways and 16 for reconstruction of existing railways, but in this area of Southeast Europe, I think that "Serbian Railways" can provide, to be a leader in the extreme case. If we were important not only for us, the quality and success of "Serb Railways", but also for Croatia and Slovenia, and that was the word here, the pawnage that was on which Minister Mrkonjic was also on, not only insisted, but worked on it, together with ministers from Slovenia and Croatia, to form a joint venture, Corridor 10, in order to return part of the goods that went to Corridor 10 from 1989 to 1990 through Serbia through Slovenia and Croatia to that corridor. If we were to return 30-40% of the goods that used to go on this corridor, we would certainly have twice as much income in cargo traffic as we have today. I think cargo traffic, i.e. freight traffic, goods traffic and today 50% of the total goods produced in Serbia produce it. That's how it's always been -- as much as the gross national income and the production of kabaste goods in Serbia is increasing, I'm quite sure with this element that's also here, with the government's incentive when it comes to combined transport, it's organized, the railway will drive 50% of the goods produced in Serbia in the future. We have to make more to have something to drive. When it comes to the role of the Railways Directorate, you know, it's very important, and it's one important element of this law, that the Railways Directorate gets that right function of a regulatory body. There has been an exact push for more of these EU agencies. The ministry agreed, in agreement with the people of the EU, that this could be done by one directorate, not by making two, three directorates, and for traffic security, and for one, and for the other, and for the third. By creating these conditions, that the agency be not some spare body of the Serbian Railways, but an independent regulatory body for granting licences, for granting consent, for other operators, I deeply believe that we can also build a market on the railways and build a market railway to the extent that it does not mean that there is no income from the state when it comes to mandatory public transport in infrastructure, but rather about equality with other economic operators, with some private operator in passenger traffic, who will also have mandatory public transport as well as public railways, but that in this I think railways are trained. We can listen to all kinds of stories about it here - he's got a license, he's got no license. Don't scare people. At the very least, let's take a look at that May 1st. Let's take a look at the last year. Let's take a look at the last five years. How many people had any accidents on the railways, and how many on the highway, on roads across Serbia? Serbia's railways, if they have one of the most important and important elements, is the fight and engagement for traffic security. That's what I think they achieve significant results. A personal mistake or a engineer's mistake can always happen. That's what you'd say, a personal mistake that's possible. The railroad is still the safest means of transport and it will remain. If that were the case, without a license, without permission, where would we end? The railroad is still an organized system. The Socialist Party of Serbia absolutely supports the law. I deeply believe that the ministry, along with the Serbian Railways Assembly, will end reforms by the next two or three months, by September of the month, more precisely, bring to an end what we have agreed so far with the formation of dependent companies and holding companies and that the new budget law will provide the position of mandatory public transport, not more donations, to adopt a national infrastructure plan. Once again, I say he's very clear. I deeply believe that in the next five years we can talk in a completely different way, even more affirmative, even though today we can speak affirmatively about the railway. I want you to have this law unanimously passed in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26035	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, the Budget Law is the most important law in a year. That's what I think we all agree on here. A large number of Serbian citizens do not know why the Budget Law is so important. But they all know that since New Year's Eve, everyone will absolutely pay for more milk, bread, medicines and basic provisions of life. I who move in Serbia every day in different places, from that people or from one part of the people, I get messages that this bill on the budget this year and how it is made is pretty far apart, which means it's not even completely fair when it comes to saving, but it gives some vision and hope that it will be in 2014, 2015 and 2016, so people don't trust us all anymore. Why isn't he just? It's true that we all pay VAT the same. It is true that doctors, teachers and all those who receive salaries of over 60,000 dinars are taxed. It is not the same when the price of milk is increased to a pensioner who receives 15,000 pensions and when the prices of bread are increased and when it is increased to the directors of public enterprises who continue to pay are not limited. At one point, I was sitting in the government. I respect the fact that ministers' salaries haven't been growing in a few years. I've been receiving what you're receiving, too. But did you have the courage to take off your salaries to the directors of public enterprises and say -- wait, not only are we going to tax you, but we're going to take off your salaries on those he has, say, prime minister? Today, I listen to TV that the directors of public enterprises continue to receive salaries of 300,000 and 400,000 dinars, and I do not accept your explanation as it says - we cannot do without such experts. Because we easily give up an expert, a young doctor who will go to Germany, because one doctor who receives 70,000 dinars of wages is subject to taxation, subject to additional separations, and one who receives 400,000 not, knowing that he can go abroad more easily than the one who currently manages large public treasures. On the other hand, it's easy for us to give up the budgets of local self-government. That's far from Belgrade, that doesn't hurt. Who hurts that Kragujevac has 152 million less, except for Poscuca, who is from Kragujevac and Saša Milenić, who is from Kragujevac? Who hurts because most of the municipalities of the devastated have fewer budgets, so they can't make a simple path, nor subsidize the purchase of a container, which, Minister, I was already talking about? Who does it hurt that we take two billion to local self-government, but at the same time we add little to the Foreign Ministry, even though our headlines are full of what money is spent on? Neither the Ministry of Defense nor the Ministry of Police, let's not say it's correct, they're our colleagues, we can't cut their budgets, but local self-government can, they're far from the eyes, and they're rich and far from the heart. Why do I say people don't see perspective? Well, I heard how the incentives for opening new jobs are bad. Everything is a living mud, everything has gone to the devil in the previous period and no longer needs to encourage the opening of a Serbian company. We'll fix that with an economic environment. Well, tell those in Babusnica how we're going to encourage domestic economy and fix the economic environment, when their last bank left Babusnica a few days ago, so they have nowhere to do any transaction, but they need five liters of fuel and two hours to go to Pirot and finish what they need. Without new investments, there's no hope for the unemployed. Without incentives for investment, there is no hope that those who will lose their jobs because they have or have no personal cards in the following year, which regardless of their ID cards, 20,000, in your words, will go to the street. There is no hope for them, without incentives to open large companies that will hire and those who have branded names and competitive products for the world market, but who also have a market, which also have technology, which have the opportunity to employ more people. There is no country's progress without additional incentives for agriculture, and that doesn't hurt. The peasants don't hurt. Three billion is less in the agricultural budget. That's why people don't believe this kind of policy gives hope for a better tomorrow, and that's why they tell me when I meet them -- this budget is bad. Perhaps this budget is not a credential of the IMF's size and is not tailored to the EU's scale, but it is certainly not Serbia's citizens.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26036	Thank you, Mrs. Pantic. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić. Thank you, Mrs. Pantic. The word has a folk MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojčić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26038	Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go. Thank you. The word is made by MP Momir Stojanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26042	The Honored Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of the proposed amendment should not be accepted for three basic reasons. The first reason why the amendment should not be accepted is to prevent equal access to justice. This is reflected in the fact that the amendment promoter treats state-owned enterprises and private enterprises in a completely different way, i.e. private enterprises, or companies with majority private capital, is given the opportunity to choose their own contractors. The aim of the legislator and the general objective of the SNS is for all to be equal before the law, not for individuals or individual companies to be favored in any way by private or state. So that's the first reason this amendment should be rejected. The second reason why this amendment should be refused is to compromise the principle of efficiency which is both important and significant in the enforcement process. And how does the amendment's proposing compromise this principle of efficiency? It endangers it by giving the chamber 15 days to respond upon request again and giving the chamber authority to verify whether the debtor has settled his obligations before the court even though we know well that the check is the previous question and that it has already been resolved, and that the check has already been carried out. Therefore, for reasons of jeopardising equal access to justice to all the factors of this society, for the purpose of jeopardising efficiency, for the purpose of jeopardising economics, this amendment is not acceptable to the SNS. The Honored Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament and MPs, respected citizens of the proposed amendment should not be accepted for three basic reasons. The first reason why the amendment should not be accepted is to prevent equal access to justice. This is reflected in the fact that the amendment promoter treats state-owned enterprises and private enterprises in a completely different way, i.e. private enterprises, or companies with majority private capital, is given the opportunity to choose their own contractors. The aim of the legislator and the general objective of the SNS is for all to be equal before the law, not for individuals or individual companies to be favored in any way by private or state. So that's the first reason this amendment should be rejected. The second reason why this amendment should be refused is to compromise the principle of efficiency which is both important and significant in the enforcement process. And how does the amendment's proposing compromise this principle of efficiency? It endangers it by giving the chamber 15 days to respond upon request again and giving the chamber authority to verify whether the debtor has settled his obligations before the court even though we know well that the check is the previous question and that it has already been resolved, and that the check has already been carried out. Therefore, for reasons of jeopardising equal access to justice to all the factors of this society, for the purpose of jeopardising efficiency, for the purpose of jeopardising economics, this amendment is not acceptable to the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26044	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after my colleague Mr. Angelkovic, who spoke a lot of affirmatively about the state of the railways, about good plans and good projects, I would still stick to it before I look back on the good and bad sides of the proposed law, on the condition that is today on the Serbian Railways. You know that transport agencies were formed in 2003. In 2005, the U.S. Serbia's railways had six daughters of businesses. There was a change in the founding act and founding rights transferred to the government of the Republic of Serbia. There has been privatisation of some of the company's daughters, and the daughters of companies are places where illegal profits are obtained through multiple-inflated invoices. In 2006 Serbia's railways are getting a new form of organisation, similar to what is proposed today by this law, i.e. there were two directives -- the Infrastructure Directorate and the Transport Directorate. In 2011 Serbia's railways become Serbia's railways with four companies. The infrastructure company receives an additional level of organisation, which is a node section, which increases the administrative-burocratic position of the railways. Nothing is being invested in Željnica and, according to an estimate of rail revitalisation services in 2010, it was necessary for the state to allocate six billion euros to bring capacities and railways to an average speed of 80km. The question arises how much money is needed today? The financial consolidation of the Serbian Railways has not been carried out. Serbia's railways have burdened their business with around 1.3 billion euros, out of which external debts account for around 840m euros, and debts to domestic lenders are around 190m euros. The company is also burdened with short-term commitments, as operational revenues do not cover operational costs. Since 2000, investment has been minimal in the Railways. Our tracks are down, there's no thresholds, there's no rails. Tow and towed funds have been destroyed. There have been experiments carried out in the commercial policy of the company, but always at the expense of the company. The workers were left with no basic protective means, no protective and official clothing. We used to pay for foreign car maintenance and use foreign cars, as much as energy. Light rides are introduced almost on all stripes. The workers leave the company according to various programs. We've received footage we don't need. Railway workers burned with profits below the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Carriers who have obtained transport licences and safety certificates still do not have access to railway infrastructure, as they have not met all the requirements prescribed by law for the use of public railway infrastructure. No statement on the network with basic principles on which the infrastructure fee regime is based has been published. The model of the contract between infrastructure managers and carriers has not been fully restructured in such a way that it is possible to realise access to the network. Unprofessional management of tariff policy in both passenger and goods traffic has drastically reduced the revenues of the Railways. Passenger transport took part in the revenues of the railway with about 10%, and could participate with a significantly higher percentage that rights and good tariff policy were conducted. The goods traffic is inextricably managed by tariff policy, by applying the regulations always at the expense of the Railways and today drives the biggest users of our services. The railway currently asks RTB Bor for more than 10 million dinars based on this kind of trickery and the question is the day when it will transfer some of its transport to the road, because it no longer pays for rail transport. It is important to know that RTB Bor drives about four thousand tonnes of railway goods annually, that he pays neatly and that he made 50km of railroad and gave the Railway to use and plans to drive over 800,000 tons of goods after the completion of the new solvent and sulphuric acid factories. Today we are trying to charge RTB Bor an international tariff in domestic transport. We're wondering why he refuses to pay for it. Serbia's rail transport market is currently worth 250m to 300m euros annually. The railway is currently incometing about 100 million, as a large part of transit goods bypasses us because of bad railways, long transit through Serbia, overloading and repairing cargo and the like. The state subsidizes the railway with about 15 billion dinars a year, and if we see that we can make about 250 to 300 million, then it's clear that the railroadmen can earn their own wages, but someone doesn't answer that. The state could pass a law under which all road transport transiting through Serbia, transport and railways, such as in many EU countries. This is also related to the adoption of a traffic strategy where all four types of traffic would be clearly developed and the transport of goods would be rerouted across the railways. The railroad would make money, the roads would be kept from heavy trucks. When foreign private operators come, all this will change, especially the current traffic organisation. As far as the traffic organization is concerned, she remained the same as she did 50 years ago. When an international train enters Saturday's Serbia, it is taken over by mechanical personnel pulling the trains of Subotica. The same train is towing to Novi Sad where it is taken by their staff to drag it to Belgrade and to Belgrade's range ramp. That's where their staff takes him and drags him to Lapov or possibly Nis. Then he's taken over by the staff. Every time the train staff changes, the train falls out of its path, and since our tracks are bad after we find it difficult to find an interval to get that train back into traffic. Every time staff changes, the locomotive that pulls that train is changed, instead of one locomotive and one or two staff driving a train through Serbia, that train passes through Serbia in 10 hours, and then goes two days. Today, renting a business space on the railway is also tariffd for all of Serbia. It is the same price as renting a business space in both Belgrade and Zajecar. The railway site contains incorrect data on the number of locomotives, freight cars and passenger cars. We've got about 70 locomotives and over 2,000 cargo cars. The site says we have 450 locomotives and over 4,000 cargo cars, which is a complete lie. Although there may be so many of them on record in the cemetery of freight cars and locomotives, but they are out of use. The railways owe over a billion dollars and each day they owe more and more. How these debts will pay back so far is not clear to anyone. It's not this much debt made in a year, but it's never been reduced, it's just increased, which is the best thing it says about not doing those who ran the railroad. Today, railways pay millions of pens for loans they didn't withdraw. What causes this condition on Serbia's railways today? Long-standing and organised corruption and robbery of the Serbian Railways, at all levels as high as possible for the robbery. The absence and non-adjustment of traffic policy to the real needs of the market where the interests and relationships of all types of traffic, the absence and the existence of these days and the existence of the Law on Railways, the centralised way of managing finance, budget and earned income with minimal responsibility, the influence of political parties through their representatives in railway management bodies, the desperate staff policy. Professionals who respect the law and the general good have been pushed aside, and similar personnel have been set up with clearly established tasks on how to benefit from their political option. Buying the silence of union representatives, representative and some smaller trade unions through catering facilities, which has also been discussed in the media these days, foreign and domestic journals with official travels. Buying silences from employers, privileges such as often foreign and domestic journals, director's allowances, catering facilities, flat division and others. With both the domestic and the entire system of the Serbian Railways, the devastating commercial and especially tariff policies resulting in the departure of users of transport to other modes of transport, thus also the loss of income and jobs. I'll tell you what the situation is in the environment. Serbia entered the railway restructuring business the last of the former SFRY states. There's no need to wander around various, different models of restructuring. The current organisation of the Serbian Railways once had Slovenia, its railways but changed it because it did not give the desired effects. Croatia's railway has three organisational works – cargo, passenger transport and infrastructure. By joining the EU, Croatia will free up its transport market and currently carry out a reduction in the number of workers in its karg from 2000 to 1000 workers. Romanian railways liberalised their transport market by joining the EU, thus destroying their goods operator. It was only in one day that he fired about 8,000 workers and is currently in bankruptcy. The transport market for Montenegro and BiH has not been opened yet. What are the good parts of this Law on Railways? The good side of the Law on Railways is that it will legalise the change in the legal status of the Serbian Railways, that unless there are few amendments, it will provide a stable source of funding. In this regard, I proposed a model of financing Serbia's Railways. I would ask the Minister, the Government and the Resolute Committee to plead on the subject of this amendment. To allow the possibility of concessions, the amendment has also been submitted, to move forward with the regulation of our transport market and its adaptation with EU directives on this area. Mr. Minister, in this law, it is proposed to reduce the protection belt from 200 to 100 meters. You know that the head of all the facilities in that protection belt is the Republic of Serbia. So far, there have been facilities rented by the government of the Republic of Serbia to rent to the tenants to use the facilities on the safety belt. The problem with both the government and the Serbian Railways is that the payment of the rent does not go even 10%, thus losing both the Republic of Serbia's budget and thus the Railways of the Republic of Serbia. To collect from the use of these facilities in the state register would also be more funds for the development of the infrastructure of the Serbian Railways. The motive of this is an overly protective belt in larger cities such as Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade and Novi Sad, as it is certain that by giving up these 100 meters and reducing the belt from 200 to 100 meters, many economic and construction facilities will likely be in the belt. I personally think it's wrong and the amendment has been submitted in this regard. I think it should stay and be the holder of this as the Republic of Serbia and charge the rent from it, and that it backs up its railways. The second solution to be offered, which is problematic and which may be the most controversial in the proposed law, is that the decision on non-performable railways, the closure of non-erable railways, is passed on from the National Assembly to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's necessary to keep an old solution, that this home should be regularly declared on rails that are inert and planned to stop traffic. The third question a little bit of the proposed law, which I consider to be vital to the railways, is the question of concession. In my amendments, I elaborated on the problem of concessions in railways. I would also ask you to make a statement and pay attention to that possibility. I think at a time like this and in the financial situation in which the railway is located today, the concession is one of the very important solutions. We also proposed the concept of financing Serbia's Railways. We'll also discuss these amendments on the day we discuss it. It is incomprehensible, Mr. Minister, that in the framework of the fuel excise charge, Serbian Railways pay for the road, although they do not use the roads, but use the railways. I think by reducing that debt from the railway cargo, a part of the means to improve railway infrastructure can be allocated. Now, outside of this bill, I would ask you to consider your ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia the problem of reforming the union organisation in the Serbian Railways. I don't know if you know that there are about 17 unions in the Serbian Railways? Corrected by my colleague Angelkovic, 27. Isn't it possible if we are now dividing Serbia's railways into transport and infrastructure, that we have two representative transport unions and infrastructures? I am saying this because the costs of the Serbian Railways for this union organization are huge. I've got a table here for all the expenses. I don't want to bother this house right now, but I can show you that, which is all about unions within the rails. The second question that Serbia's Railways should deal with, Mr. Minister, is also a key issue, and I think the authorities in this country, is to expose, expose some of the leaders in the Serbian Railways with private shipping companies. There is a basis for the transport that is planned from the railways through various machinations to be poured into the transport of private shipping companies and that is one of the major problems. Finally and lastly, I suggest that your ministry and government take seriously the adoption of a new strategy on traffic policy in our country, precisely for the reasons I mentioned earlier, because some analyses say that almost 80% of the transport of goods takes place by rail in almost all EU countries, and we are only 20% today. Finally, with all due respect, I ask you to seriously consider the proposed amendments on the committee responsible and you, as a ministry and government, because in some matters they significantly improve the proposal for this law. Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after my colleague Mr. Angelkovic, who spoke a lot of affirmatively about the state of the railways, about good plans and good projects, I would still stick to it before I look back on the good and bad sides of the proposed law, on the condition that is today on the Serbian Railways. You know that transport agencies were formed in 2003. In 2005, the U.S. Serbia's railways had six daughters of businesses. There was a change in the founding act and founding rights transferred to the government of the Republic of Serbia. There has been privatisation of some of the company's daughters, and the daughters of companies are places where illegal profits are obtained through multiple-inflated invoices. In 2006 Serbia's railways are getting a new form of organisation, similar to what is proposed today by this law, i.e. there were two directives -- the Infrastructure Directorate and the Transport Directorate. In 2011 Serbia's railways become Serbia's railways with four companies. The infrastructure company receives an additional level of organisation, which is a node section, which increases the administrative-burocratic position of the railways. Nothing is being invested in Željnica and, according to an estimate of rail revitalisation services in 2010, it was necessary for the state to allocate six billion euros to bring capacities and railways to an average speed of 80km. The question arises how much money is needed today? The financial consolidation of the Serbian Railways has not been carried out. Serbia's railways have burdened their business with around 1.3 billion euros, out of which external debts account for around 840m euros, and debts to domestic lenders are around 190m euros. The company is also burdened with short-term commitments, as operational revenues do not cover operational costs. Since 2000, investment has been minimal in the Railways. Our tracks are down, there's no thresholds, there's no rails. Tow and towed funds have been destroyed. There have been experiments carried out in the commercial policy of the company, but always at the expense of the company. The workers were left with no basic protective means, no protective and official clothing. We used to pay for foreign car maintenance and use foreign cars, as much as energy. Light rides are introduced almost on all stripes. The workers leave the company according to various programs. We've received footage we don't need. Railway workers burned with profits below the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. Carriers who have obtained transport licences and safety certificates still do not have access to railway infrastructure, as they have not met all the requirements prescribed by law for the use of public railway infrastructure. No statement on the network with basic principles on which the infrastructure fee regime is based has been published. The model of the contract between infrastructure managers and carriers has not been fully restructured in such a way that it is possible to realise access to the network. Unprofessional management of tariff policy in both passenger and goods traffic has drastically reduced the revenues of the Railways. Passenger transport took part in the revenues of the railway with about 10%, and could participate with a significantly higher percentage that rights and good tariff policy were conducted. The goods traffic is inextricably managed by tariff policy, by applying the regulations always at the expense of the Railways and today drives the biggest users of our services. The railway currently asks RTB Bor for more than 10 million dinars based on this kind of trickery and the question is the day when it will transfer some of its transport to the road, because it no longer pays for rail transport. It is important to know that RTB Bor drives about four thousand tonnes of railway goods annually, that he pays neatly and that he made 50km of railroad and gave the Railway to use and plans to drive over 800,000 tons of goods after the completion of the new solvent and sulphuric acid factories. Today we are trying to charge RTB Bor an international tariff in domestic transport. We're wondering why he refuses to pay for it. Serbia's rail transport market is currently worth 250m to 300m euros annually. The railway is currently incometing about 100 million, as a large part of transit goods bypasses us because of bad railways, long transit through Serbia, overloading and repairing cargo and the like. The state subsidizes the railway with about 15 billion dinars a year, and if we see that we can make about 250 to 300 million, then it's clear that the railroadmen can earn their own wages, but someone doesn't answer that. The state could pass a law under which all road transport transiting through Serbia, transport and railways, such as in many EU countries. This is also related to the adoption of a traffic strategy where all four types of traffic would be clearly developed and the transport of goods would be rerouted across the railways. The railroad would make money, the roads would be kept from heavy trucks. When foreign private operators come, all this will change, especially the current traffic organisation. As far as the traffic organization is concerned, she remained the same as she did 50 years ago. When an international train enters Saturday's Serbia, it is taken over by mechanical personnel pulling the trains of Subotica. The same train is towing to Novi Sad where it is taken by their staff to drag it to Belgrade and to Belgrade's range ramp. That's where their staff takes him and drags him to Lapov or possibly Nis. Then he's taken over by the staff. Every time the train staff changes, the train falls out of its path, and since our tracks are bad after we find it difficult to find an interval to get that train back into traffic. Every time staff changes, the locomotive that pulls that train is changed, instead of one locomotive and one or two staff driving a train through Serbia, that train passes through Serbia in 10 hours, and then goes two days. Today, renting a business space on the railway is also tariffd for all of Serbia. It is the same price as renting a business space in both Belgrade and Zajecar. The railway site contains incorrect data on the number of locomotives, freight cars and passenger cars. We've got about 70 locomotives and over 2,000 cargo cars. The site says we have 450 locomotives and over 4,000 cargo cars, which is a complete lie. Although there may be so many of them on record in the cemetery of freight cars and locomotives, but they are out of use. The railways owe over a billion dollars and each day they owe more and more. How these debts will pay back so far is not clear to anyone. It's not this much debt made in a year, but it's never been reduced, it's just increased, which is the best thing it says about not doing those who ran the railroad. Today, railways pay millions of pens for loans they didn't withdraw. What causes this condition on Serbia's railways today? Long-standing and organised corruption and robbery of the Serbian Railways, at all levels as high as possible for the robbery. The absence and non-adjustment of traffic policy to the real needs of the market where the interests and relationships of all types of traffic, the absence and the existence of these days and the existence of the Law on Railways, the centralised way of managing finance, budget and earned income with minimal responsibility, the influence of political parties through their representatives in railway management bodies, the desperate staff policy. Professionals who respect the law and the general good have been pushed aside, and similar personnel have been set up with clearly established tasks on how to benefit from their political option. Buying the silence of union representatives, representative and some smaller trade unions through catering facilities, which has also been discussed in the media these days, foreign and domestic journals with official travels. Buying silences from employers, privileges such as often foreign and domestic journals, director's allowances, catering facilities, flat division and others. With both the domestic and the entire system of the Serbian Railways, the devastating commercial and especially tariff policies resulting in the departure of users of transport to other modes of transport, thus also the loss of income and jobs. I'll tell you what the situation is in the environment. Serbia entered the railway restructuring business the last of the former SFRY states. There's no need to wander around various, different models of restructuring. The current organisation of the Serbian Railways once had Slovenia, its railways but changed it because it did not give the desired effects. Croatia's railway has three organisational works – cargo, passenger transport and infrastructure. By joining the EU, Croatia will free up its transport market and currently carry out a reduction in the number of workers in its karg from 2000 to 1000 workers. Romanian railways liberalised their transport market by joining the EU, thus destroying their goods operator. It was only in one day that he fired about 8,000 workers and is currently in bankruptcy. The transport market for Montenegro and BiH has not been opened yet. What are the good parts of this Law on Railways? The good side of the Law on Railways is that it will legalise the change in the legal status of the Serbian Railways, that unless there are few amendments, it will provide a stable source of funding. In this regard, I proposed a model of financing Serbia's Railways. I would ask the Minister, the Government and the Resolute Committee to plead on the subject of this amendment. To allow the possibility of concessions, the amendment has also been submitted, to move forward with the regulation of our transport market and its adaptation with EU directives on this area. Mr. Minister, in this law, it is proposed to reduce the protection belt from 200 to 100 meters. You know that the head of all the facilities in that protection belt is the Republic of Serbia. So far, there have been facilities rented by the government of the Republic of Serbia to rent to the tenants to use the facilities on the safety belt. The problem with both the government and the Serbian Railways is that the payment of the rent does not go even 10%, thus losing both the Republic of Serbia's budget and thus the Railways of the Republic of Serbia. To collect from the use of these facilities in the state register would also be more funds for the development of the infrastructure of the Serbian Railways. The motive of this is an overly protective belt in larger cities such as Nis, Kragujevac, Belgrade and Novi Sad, as it is certain that by giving up these 100 meters and reducing the belt from 200 to 100 meters, many economic and construction facilities will likely be in the belt. I personally think it's wrong and the amendment has been submitted in this regard. I think it should stay and be the holder of this as the Republic of Serbia and charge the rent from it, and that it backs up its railways. The second solution to be offered, which is problematic and which may be the most controversial in the proposed law, is that the decision on non-performable railways, the closure of non-erable railways, is passed on from the National Assembly to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's necessary to keep an old solution, that this home should be regularly declared on rails that are inert and planned to stop traffic. The third question a little bit of the proposed law, which I consider to be vital to the railways, is the question of concession. In my amendments, I elaborated on the problem of concessions in railways. I would also ask you to make a statement and pay attention to that possibility. I think at a time like this and in the financial situation in which the railway is located today, the concession is one of the very important solutions. We also proposed the concept of financing Serbia's Railways. We'll also discuss these amendments on the day we discuss it. It is incomprehensible, Mr. Minister, that in the framework of the fuel excise charge, Serbian Railways pay for the road, although they do not use the roads, but use the railways. I think by reducing that debt from the railway cargo, a part of the means to improve railway infrastructure can be allocated. Now, outside of this bill, I would ask you to consider your ministry and the government of the Republic of Serbia the problem of reforming the union organisation in the Serbian Railways. I don't know if you know that there are about 17 unions in the Serbian Railways? Corrected by my colleague Angelkovic, 27. Isn't it possible if we are now dividing Serbia's railways into transport and infrastructure, that we have two representative transport unions and infrastructures? I am saying this because the costs of the Serbian Railways for this union organization are huge. I've got a table here for all the expenses. I don't want to bother this house right now, but I can show you that, which is all about unions within the rails. The second question that Serbia's Railways should deal with, Mr. Minister, is also a key issue, and I think the authorities in this country, is to expose, expose some of the leaders in the Serbian Railways with private shipping companies. There is a basis for the transport that is planned from the railways through various machinations to be poured into the transport of private shipping companies and that is one of the major problems. Finally and lastly, I suggest that your ministry and government take seriously the adoption of a new strategy on traffic policy in our country, precisely for the reasons I mentioned earlier, because some analyses say that almost 80% of the transport of goods takes place by rail in almost all EU countries, and we are only 20% today. Finally, with all due respect, I ask you to seriously consider the proposed amendments on the committee responsible and you, as a ministry and government, because in some matters they significantly improve the proposal for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26047	So, I don't know if you understand? And one who earns 70,000 and one who earns 400,000 and works in the public sector is taxed. Those who earn up to 100,000 are taxed 20%, between 60,000 and 100,000, and more than 100,000 25%, so someone who earns 400,000 dinars pays a lot more, or will have a much lower salary, proportionally speaking, than someone who earns 70,000, so we addressed the entire public sector without discrimination. As for the locale, which was not a practice in previous years and transfers to local self-government, we actually applied a formula that is by law, to calculate how much and which local self-government should transfer funds to the name of regular transfers. That wasn't the case in years ago. We didn't favour any local self-government in this year's draft of this budget bill because there's someone in it or because we expect someone to get more or less votes, so it should be clear to everyone. When you ask who hurts, so I think all citizens now are in pain just because we haven't been responsible for the previous laws in the budget. This budget law can't be the brightest budget law ever in terms of development or I don't know what it's all about, not when we're brought into the situation where we're brought in. That budget law is the first step towards one better tomorrow, to something where we will face our problems and we will call them the real name and then go to fight them, regardless of what the political price for it may be. We're not going to sit here and try to figure out how we can reduce that public debt, and then when we see that there's almost no way, we're going to keep doing what we've done before, afraid we might lose some percentage of the popularity. I don't care about the percentages of popularity. I don't look, I don't have any insight into any popularity polls, I don't care. I'm just interested in doing what needs to be done and doing it in the most righteous way possible. What we did with a profit reduction of over 60,000 in the public sector, where there is a problem with an extended indexation above 2014, where we didn't have to, therefore, go on for pensions and wages are responsible things even though they aren't popular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26048	I thank Mrs Jevtović Vukojičić. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic. I thank Mrs Jevtović Vukojičić. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26050	Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go. Thank you. We move on to the order of the People's MPs according to the application for a word. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26054	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment is not acceptable for the SNS parliamentary group because it is contrary to our proposal to amend and supplement the Security and Enforcement Act, where there is one basic idea, and there was also a law adopted in 2011, which is equal to the law of all creditors. We cannot make a selection of creditors to those who belong and who have more than 50% of the state capital and which refers to those companies established by the Republic of Serbia, the territorial autonomy units and the local self-government units, and that the other companies do not need to address the execution chamber and that there in the procedure that we have provided for the request to determine the perpetrator by the place where the execution is located, or where the execution is to be carried out. Such selectivity does not lead to strengthening the rule of law. What the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, tends to say is that they are all equal before God and before the law. I think even trustees are equal to the law. We have to defend that right of all creditors that there is no selectivity, that there is no entrenchedness between them, why one has to do something and the other doesn't have to. As for those 15 days and checking whether it was charged or not, I said so in commenting on the same amendment Mr. Homen gave, which was written by this amendment, which Mrs. Malovic gave, so that for us, for the parliamentary group, this proposal of this amendment is not acceptable and we will reject it in the day of the vote. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This amendment is not acceptable for the SNS parliamentary group because it is contrary to our proposal to amend and supplement the Security and Enforcement Act, where there is one basic idea, and there was also a law adopted in 2011, which is equal to the law of all creditors. We cannot make a selection of creditors to those who belong and who have more than 50% of the state capital and which refers to those companies established by the Republic of Serbia, the territorial autonomy units and the local self-government units, and that the other companies do not need to address the execution chamber and that there in the procedure that we have provided for the request to determine the perpetrator by the place where the execution is located, or where the execution is to be carried out. Such selectivity does not lead to strengthening the rule of law. What the head of the SNS parliamentary group, Mr. Zoran Babic, tends to say is that they are all equal before God and before the law. I think even trustees are equal to the law. We have to defend that right of all creditors that there is no selectivity, that there is no entrenchedness between them, why one has to do something and the other doesn't have to. As for those 15 days and checking whether it was charged or not, I said so in commenting on the same amendment Mr. Homen gave, which was written by this amendment, which Mrs. Malovic gave, so that for us, for the parliamentary group, this proposal of this amendment is not acceptable and we will reject it in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26056	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the Honorable President-in-Office of Serbia, I must first of all refer to the fact that the NS in the previous meeting, and myself personally as a National MP, participated in creating a significant number of amendments, which we recognize have been adopted in this bill of law before us. I really thank the Minister and the Ministry for having heard of this kind of co-operation and co-operation. What is very important at this point in Serbia is that all kinds of traffic, traffic infrastructures are advanced, of course, and rail traffic. They are indivisible to each other: road traffic, air traffic, water traffic and rail traffic must be complemented. The railway is certainly of national importance, primarily because it has existed in Serbia since 1884. In the last 50 years, as it has failed, it is now time for this trend of collapse or free fall to be stopped and for us to turn to that resource as one of the significant traffic resources that will improve, above all, Serbia's economy, as it will also enable the transport of goods. What is positive in rail transport, it is a high permeability and transport capacity of goods and passengers, transport independent of climate conditions. Therefore, no other traffic resource has such frequency and such flexibility when it comes to climate conditions, climate change, as is the possibility of rail traffic. Then, direct connection of the bus and track tracks and the possibility of major co-operation with all other traffic infrastructures and mass transport. Of course, railways are such a traffic resource that requires large initial investments, but all investment in railways is certainly worth the long run. What made it clear that the NS would support this bill, of course, after discussions in particular and the adoption of a significant number of amendments, in which we have participated very creatively this time, is certainly the possibility of reorganising this public enterprise, which will make it more competitive on the market, then, the possibility of improving, what we have seen in particular, environmental protection, which it insists in the EU, which in general insists on in this global traffic policy. The railway industry has a very young sector that deals successfully and well with this very issue and is very noticeable in the domain of its work, not only in Serbia, but also beyond. So we expect this law to be really a modern law that will follow European laws in every respect and allow for the improvement of this traffic and further and better co-operation. The railway cannot be excluded from international co-operation. All traffic flows are in fact related to international traffic flows and that is why Serbia is very important geopolitical and traffic strategically important in this very area and that is the advantage we need to take advantage of. This law will certainly improve the work of the Directorate. This law will allow budget investment to be reduced. In any case, this law will bring in a more modern railway and what it needs to do in the future, it is a greater interest and interest in the economy and travellers once so modern and for the transport of goods with such a modern railway. Serbia alone with such a railway can be competitive and can be in modern Europe, in a modern world. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, the Honorable President-in-Office of Serbia, I must first of all refer to the fact that the NS in the previous meeting, and myself personally as a National MP, participated in creating a significant number of amendments, which we recognize have been adopted in this bill of law before us. I really thank the Minister and the Ministry for having heard of this kind of co-operation and co-operation. What is very important at this point in Serbia is that all kinds of traffic, traffic infrastructures are advanced, of course, and rail traffic. They are indivisible to each other: road traffic, air traffic, water traffic and rail traffic must be complemented. The railway is certainly of national importance, primarily because it has existed in Serbia since 1884. In the last 50 years, as it has failed, it is now time for this trend of collapse or free fall to be stopped and for us to turn to that resource as one of the significant traffic resources that will improve, above all, Serbia's economy, as it will also enable the transport of goods. What is positive in rail transport, it is a high permeability and transport capacity of goods and passengers, transport independent of climate conditions. Therefore, no other traffic resource has such frequency and such flexibility when it comes to climate conditions, climate change, as is the possibility of rail traffic. Then, direct connection of the bus and track tracks and the possibility of major co-operation with all other traffic infrastructures and mass transport. Of course, railways are such a traffic resource that requires large initial investments, but all investment in railways is certainly worth the long run. What made it clear that the NS would support this bill, of course, after discussions in particular and the adoption of a significant number of amendments, in which we have participated very creatively this time, is certainly the possibility of reorganising this public enterprise, which will make it more competitive on the market, then, the possibility of improving, what we have seen in particular, environmental protection, which it insists in the EU, which in general insists on in this global traffic policy. The railway industry has a very young sector that deals successfully and well with this very issue and is very noticeable in the domain of its work, not only in Serbia, but also beyond. So we expect this law to be really a modern law that will follow European laws in every respect and allow for the improvement of this traffic and further and better co-operation. The railway cannot be excluded from international co-operation. All traffic flows are in fact related to international traffic flows and that is why Serbia is very important geopolitical and traffic strategically important in this very area and that is the advantage we need to take advantage of. This law will certainly improve the work of the Directorate. This law will allow budget investment to be reduced. In any case, this law will bring in a more modern railway and what it needs to do in the future, it is a greater interest and interest in the economy and travellers once so modern and for the transport of goods with such a modern railway. Serbia alone with such a railway can be competitive and can be in modern Europe, in a modern world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26059	I would agree with one finding, which is that there is no future without investment, or no economic growth. However, the second part kind of stings a little bit, that without incentives there is no investment. It doesn't stand anywhere in the world, so it doesn't even stand with us. It stands in those countries that are unable to settle their situation at home, make a good business environment, and then because of that inaction and irresponsibility, you have to pay for people to invest in you. The result of the policy so far that was based on subsidies, which was based on inaction, which was based on irresponsibility, we see and it's all around us. We have a failing economy, we have a standard of living that falls. This policy has obviously produced poor results and we need to change that policy. To do what we've done so far, to expect different results, I don't think it's the mark of rational people. There is one proverb, which I have repeated several times, in the West, or in the Anglo-Saxon countries, that says – when you find yourself in a hole, or problem, the first thing you have to do is stop digging, because the solution is not deeper in the hole, but on the other side. In the case of subsidies, to give someone one dollar, you have to take one dollar and then the question is, did you do more damage where you took from the profits you got where you gave it? We've got a bill going on like this -- for every dozen jobs we've paid, we've lost 1,000 jobs somewhere. It's an unsustainable policy, and we have to stop it. So we need to focus on developing our domestic economy, creating conditions for good business, on equal market conditions, stop discreetly sharing taxpayers' money, make a system for the economy to start working, to make growth. With regard to ID cards, it is completely incomprehensible to me that it is possible to privatise any company without knowing what property you have, what the market value of that property, what are the obligations. So you need to know what to sell in the household. Otherwise, you get Vršača vineyards. So that part has to be arranged and it's just responsible behavior. In order to successfully implement privatisation in 2014, which is something we want to do, we want the state to reduce all economic participation, to strengthen the economic sector. In order to be able to complete this process, we must first determine the situation and work intensively on it. I think that by the end of the year, we will have this situation and we will know what assets these companies have, which is the value of these assets, which are the obligations and then we will enter into the process of restructuring, cleaning these companies from liabilities, to create preconditions for good and successful privatisation and for growth in domestic economy. So we want to make healthy tissue out of sick tissue and I think that's possible. It won't take me 10 years to carry out these things, but to see if in 2014 the policy we are proposing, whether the measures we propose will yield results or not? If they don't give the results, I won't be a minister anymore, but what we all expect is that these measures will really give results when you put things on healthy feet. We're going to get economic growth and we're going to get the investments we need, and that economic growth is going to create new jobs. Of course, I repeat again in 2014 will be a very difficult year. But that should be the year in which we're going in a new direction, to work within this new economic policy, so that from 2015 on, we can start to feel better. The aim of the Serbian government and all these economic measures is to gain growth and to start growing employment. We expect this to happen after 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26060	Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. Nikolic. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Neđo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26062	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik. Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Karol Chizik.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26066	Thank you, Chairman. I will once again express regret that the amendment, which was more or less agreed in the principle debate, was not accepted. It was agreed between all of us here, who really in an extremely objective way, with the professional references we have at our disposal, we see the possibility of changing and supplementing the law on enforcement and security making them as high-quality as possible. Given that we have agreed on something essential, and it is essential that any amendments and additions must be made to the existing text of the Law on Implementation and Security. In this regard, and in view of the fact that we agreed that the deadlines attached to the procedure of the chamber should not be short, and the short term is five days, that we agreed on that deadline to be longer, that it should be justified by the deadline prescribed by the law, which is five working days, that we agreed on a fact that is indisputable and no one can doubt it, which is that in no case should leave a great discretionary option or discretionary right to an executive in selecting an enforcer, then it is truly surprising that only the first position of the amendment, proposed by the SPS parliamentary group, of course, via me as a legitimate applicant, considers that this amendment is unacceptable. I must, for the sake of the citizens, remind myself that there is something in the amendment that I believe is too much in the interest of executive creditors and that in no case is at the expense of the executive debtor, which is that instead of what the Law on Bond Relations is defined, which is the term or term of municipal and similar services, replaced by the concept of services from the public and public-community business. Dear fellow Members of the People, what difference does it make? Public enterprises and public-public enterprises are executive creditors and have the opportunity to have such legitimacy, to acquire it. Why would such legislation challenge the public undertaking NIS or EPS or public ski resorts, or any other public enterprise? Why would such a company have some kind of benefit to determine the perpetrators and even make them abuses? Of course, we don't want anyone in the coalition to accuse anyone of being prepared for such a tendency. We're here to prevent, in fact, from acting preventively so that such phenomena don't happen. In that direction, we bring these changes and additions, and that's the basic goal of these changes and additions. Then let someone logically answer me, hello- reason, which is why these companies and public-communal companies need to be excluded from the amendments and the addition of the laws that we are discussing today. It is truly unacceptable, and I really find that once again and an authorised proposer, and we all consider together the possibility of accepting this, because it has gone too far in practice and how significantly and useful. We also have the full agreement that when selecting an enforcer, on the one hand, strict application of the law, and on the other hand to avoid discrimination resulting in the enormous wealth of individual perpetrators. With respect to something that was highlighted in the principle debate by colleague Martinovic when she called for the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, so that we would not return to the topic and not cause unnecessary controversy, I just have to draw attention to something that we are obliged to do as a lawmaker. One, to establish full legal certainty when it comes to the settlement of claims by executive creditors, and on the other hand that this legal certainty is subject to legal action, i.e. to be in full compliance with the law, as well as with the Constitution. I then, and now, I repeat, pointed out the fact that the selection of executioners by chambers should be defined as being analoguely defined as the choice of bankruptcy managers in bankruptcy cases. Are we going to violate any other provisions of the law in this situation? I will not engage much in this because we will immediately cause controversy, as regards the application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, but it is doubtless that if we apply the principle of algorithm, or the software method of selecting the perpetrator, we will avoid any kind of abuse, we will avoid any kind of privileged. The most dangerous thing to do is to leave a lot of free rights to the executive trustee that he chooses the perpetrators himself. Then one of these same perpetrators will be permanently engaged, then one and the same perpetrator will have tens of thousands of cases, will have a fee that is disproportionately large in relation to what it implies, both its engagement and the violation of the rights of the other perpetrators to participate evenly or evenly in executives, or proceedings. Therefore, I would also like to ask the authorising officer to reconsider all this we had in mind. I could not agree with my opposition colleagues that they allegedly participated in the adoption of such proposals, or such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Implementation and Security, to accept this. Each of us has a full initiative. They could have done it by colleagues from opposition parties. We could've been in position. Everyone has this legitimacy and the obligation and the right to do with the bill what is the basic objective of the legislator, which is that each law is practically applicable, and in practical application to achieve the highest degree of quality, clarity, precision, indifference of regulation and that legal arrangement of the area to which it applies. With this, dear fellow Members of the People, my dear fellow lawyers, lawyers, dear folk, not only MPs, as I said earlier, not to be ambiguous but friends who really seek to make this law as high as possible, I ask you to reconsider once more all this which has been pointed out that we are in fact ignoring one situation in which the legislator is often present, which is that we are slaves to the views of someone who, in a specific case, is not legitimately proposing. We're the legitimate promoter. Those who impose some of their definitions, no matter where they are or where they work or what they do, cannot be above the legislator. We are a legislator, and we have the right and obligation to regulate a certain legal area and a certain living situation that must be covered by legislation, there is no compromise in that direction, and there is no need to be subjected to anything that implies our obligation in any case, and that is the obligation to pass a law that is most qualitative in the interests of citizens, and these proposed changes and additions through my, or amendments to the SPS are undoubtedly in the greatest interest of citizens. For the sake of the Constitution, for the sake of the law, for all we do, I think we should consider once more the possibility of accepting this amendment, and I thank you. Thank you, Chairman. I will once again express regret that the amendment, which was more or less agreed in the principle debate, was not accepted. It was agreed between all of us here, who really in an extremely objective way, with the professional references we have at our disposal, we see the possibility of changing and supplementing the law on enforcement and security making them as high-quality as possible. Given that we have agreed on something essential, and it is essential that any amendments and additions must be made to the existing text of the Law on Implementation and Security. In this regard, and in view of the fact that we agreed that the deadlines attached to the procedure of the chamber should not be short, and the short term is five days, that we agreed on that deadline to be longer, that it should be justified by the deadline prescribed by the law, which is five working days, that we agreed on a fact that is indisputable and no one can doubt it, which is that in no case should leave a great discretionary option or discretionary right to an executive in selecting an enforcer, then it is truly surprising that only the first position of the amendment, proposed by the SPS parliamentary group, of course, via me as a legitimate applicant, considers that this amendment is unacceptable. I must, for the sake of the citizens, remind myself that there is something in the amendment that I believe is too much in the interest of executive creditors and that in no case is at the expense of the executive debtor, which is that instead of what the Law on Bond Relations is defined, which is the term or term of municipal and similar services, replaced by the concept of services from the public and public-community business. Dear fellow Members of the People, what difference does it make? Public enterprises and public-public enterprises are executive creditors and have the opportunity to have such legitimacy, to acquire it. Why would such legislation challenge the public undertaking NIS or EPS or public ski resorts, or any other public enterprise? Why would such a company have some kind of benefit to determine the perpetrators and even make them abuses? Of course, we don't want anyone in the coalition to accuse anyone of being prepared for such a tendency. We're here to prevent, in fact, from acting preventively so that such phenomena don't happen. In that direction, we bring these changes and additions, and that's the basic goal of these changes and additions. Then let someone logically answer me, hello- reason, which is why these companies and public-communal companies need to be excluded from the amendments and the addition of the laws that we are discussing today. It is truly unacceptable, and I really find that once again and an authorised proposer, and we all consider together the possibility of accepting this, because it has gone too far in practice and how significantly and useful. We also have the full agreement that when selecting an enforcer, on the one hand, strict application of the law, and on the other hand to avoid discrimination resulting in the enormous wealth of individual perpetrators. With respect to something that was highlighted in the principle debate by colleague Martinovic when she called for the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, so that we would not return to the topic and not cause unnecessary controversy, I just have to draw attention to something that we are obliged to do as a lawmaker. One, to establish full legal certainty when it comes to the settlement of claims by executive creditors, and on the other hand that this legal certainty is subject to legal action, i.e. to be in full compliance with the law, as well as with the Constitution. I then, and now, I repeat, pointed out the fact that the selection of executioners by chambers should be defined as being analoguely defined as the choice of bankruptcy managers in bankruptcy cases. Are we going to violate any other provisions of the law in this situation? I will not engage much in this because we will immediately cause controversy, as regards the application of the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, but it is doubtless that if we apply the principle of algorithm, or the software method of selecting the perpetrator, we will avoid any kind of abuse, we will avoid any kind of privileged. The most dangerous thing to do is to leave a lot of free rights to the executive trustee that he chooses the perpetrators himself. Then one of these same perpetrators will be permanently engaged, then one and the same perpetrator will have tens of thousands of cases, will have a fee that is disproportionately large in relation to what it implies, both its engagement and the violation of the rights of the other perpetrators to participate evenly or evenly in executives, or proceedings. Therefore, I would also like to ask the authorising officer to reconsider all this we had in mind. I could not agree with my opposition colleagues that they allegedly participated in the adoption of such proposals, or such a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Implementation and Security, to accept this. Each of us has a full initiative. They could have done it by colleagues from opposition parties. We could've been in position. Everyone has this legitimacy and the obligation and the right to do with the bill what is the basic objective of the legislator, which is that each law is practically applicable, and in practical application to achieve the highest degree of quality, clarity, precision, indifference of regulation and that legal arrangement of the area to which it applies. With this, dear fellow Members of the People, my dear fellow lawyers, lawyers, dear folk, not only MPs, as I said earlier, not to be ambiguous but friends who really seek to make this law as high as possible, I ask you to reconsider once more all this which has been pointed out that we are in fact ignoring one situation in which the legislator is often present, which is that we are slaves to the views of someone who, in a specific case, is not legitimately proposing. We're the legitimate promoter. Those who impose some of their definitions, no matter where they are or where they work or what they do, cannot be above the legislator. We are a legislator, and we have the right and obligation to regulate a certain legal area and a certain living situation that must be covered by legislation, there is no compromise in that direction, and there is no need to be subjected to anything that implies our obligation in any case, and that is the obligation to pass a law that is most qualitative in the interests of citizens, and these proposed changes and additions through my, or amendments to the SPS are undoubtedly in the greatest interest of citizens. For the sake of the Constitution, for the sake of the law, for all we do, I think we should consider once more the possibility of accepting this amendment, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26068	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is on the agenda of the Railways Act today. The proposal is attached to the existing law, which is logical. He's trying to fix all the shortcomings and the bad side of the law. In a sense, that's fine. Good laws are also needed for the good functioning of the railway. It's necessary but not sufficient conditions. Good professional staff and good technical conditions are needed. Unfortunately, we miss all this other stuff. For nothing, we pass laws that are at least the best in the world, when our train stations are 100 years old, they're messy, the roofs are sneezing, the windows are broken, the tracks are broken, so the railway stations are recognized by the mess, by the weeds of two meters, by the ruins. The tracks have grown into weeds, the bandits by the railroad have been stolen long ago, and now it's their turn to carry rails into old iron. I don't want to talk about locomotives. For example, we still have a Shinobus that's older than me in Sainta. It's a happy day when she can get to Saturday and back. The technical state of the railway, at least with us in Vojvodina, is such that if we could return locomotives, rails, stations and the entire infrastructure from 100 years ago, we would be happy. Then it was all new, everything worked, the order of driving was always respected, the passengers were traveling comfortably and safely. Freight traffic took place precisely. The goods were always on time and intact. The problems are much deeper, deeper than the fact that we can make changes to the law. The railroad is seriously ill. He's suffering from excessive centralization, like a lot of things in this country. For example, there is no "v" in this bill of law by the AP Vojvodina. No one thinks that it would be more useful and better for the Vojvodina to engage in the leadership of the railways. We have handed over amendments from the LSV parliamentary group that urinate such changes. Depending on the acceptance of our amendments, we will vote on the draft law on railways. Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is on the agenda of the Railways Act today. The proposal is attached to the existing law, which is logical. He's trying to fix all the shortcomings and the bad side of the law. In a sense, that's fine. Good laws are also needed for the good functioning of the railway. It's necessary but not sufficient conditions. Good professional staff and good technical conditions are needed. Unfortunately, we miss all this other stuff. For nothing, we pass laws that are at least the best in the world, when our train stations are 100 years old, they're messy, the roofs are sneezing, the windows are broken, the tracks are broken, so the railway stations are recognized by the mess, by the weeds of two meters, by the ruins. The tracks have grown into weeds, the bandits by the railroad have been stolen long ago, and now it's their turn to carry rails into old iron. I don't want to talk about locomotives. For example, we still have a Shinobus that's older than me in Sainta. It's a happy day when she can get to Saturday and back. The technical state of the railway, at least with us in Vojvodina, is such that if we could return locomotives, rails, stations and the entire infrastructure from 100 years ago, we would be happy. Then it was all new, everything worked, the order of driving was always respected, the passengers were traveling comfortably and safely. Freight traffic took place precisely. The goods were always on time and intact. The problems are much deeper, deeper than the fact that we can make changes to the law. The railroad is seriously ill. He's suffering from excessive centralization, like a lot of things in this country. For example, there is no "v" in this bill of law by the AP Vojvodina. No one thinks that it would be more useful and better for the Vojvodina to engage in the leadership of the railways. We have handed over amendments from the LSV parliamentary group that urinate such changes. Depending on the acceptance of our amendments, we will vote on the draft law on railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26071	Mr. Baptizer, of course I understood you, of course I understood the budget, but obviously you didn't understand me. It's not my question – at what rate do you tax 75,000 doctors, and at which directors of public enterprises of 400,000? My question was – if we want to make a reform move, shall we say – there is no one but the director of public enterprises, who is professional in this country, and who can receive 400,000 salaries, because if he does not receive, he will leave the country. Why didn't you cut your salary to the directors of public enterprises to the limits, like the Prime Minister? At 150,000 dinars? But you say it yourself: those who have 400 and some thousands will pay at a higher rate. The question is, how can they have 400 and some thousands? It's not a question of the rate, it's a question of the amount of pay they pay their taxes on. Those who have 70,000 will pay at a lower rate. Yeah, it's the ones we're choking on every hope that tomorrow a young doctor can be successful here, lives from his work, and he's going to fall for Germany, so he says today. On the other hand, you say – there is a formula for local self-government. And you and I both know you didn't use that formula. And you and I both know that by that formula there are four groups of development of municipalities, and we have different transfers compared to the degree of development. You and I both know that some people are getting bigger, some people are reducing the transfer. We used the correction, you say -- that formula exists, it's not in the law, it's not in any sublegal act. A discretionary formula made at the ministry level to somehow measure what local self-government is doing, which is by law not. When it comes to... (President: Time Mrs. Kalanovic. I only apologize for one more sentence. I hope Minister Radulovic knows that both Hungary and the Czech Republic, and Slovakia, and Macedonia have incentives, but also have better business environments. The Republic of Serbia is in five destinations with the worst business environments and these are the World Bank's measurements and due to the length of the bankruptcy process, and because of the infrastructure, and because of inspections, and because of all the burden on economic operators.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26072	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic. I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a folk letter from Gordana Komic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26074	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. Here you go. Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26078	Thank you. I would like to explain in a few sentences the reasons for the support, both the amendment submitted by MP Neđo Jovanovic and the explanation that was clear, thorough, clever and explained everything necessary when it comes to the amendment that he is changing the existing bill. The content of his amendment is about halfway between the ideas that we had in the changes and the difference that exists concerned the similarities with the executioners and the bankruptcy managers, that is, the idea of the executioners being the subject of public procurement, regardless of what remains of the idea that such as, as legal services concerning the users of the budget of direct and indirect cases of public procurement, that such a principle could have been developed here with all the objections that stand in it until we see for the bankruptcy managers. But three key things this amendment improves in the bill, except it defends in the explanation of fellow MP of our obligation, our rights when it comes to law-making, no matter how influential someone who suggested that the law be written. What three? The key problem for which we bring changes and complements is the obvious imbalance in the enforcement market and obviously applied to only individual contractors getting jobs and to clearly see the lines how and why they get jobs. The alphabet order didn't help, since we all know one of the perpetrators at A, who never... (Dear Nikolic, from the post: Chairman, this has nothing to do with this amendment. ) National MPs earn what does this amendment have to do with? It has something to do with Amendment 3 and I'm going to start with the first explanation. I will ask the chairman to intervene for a pass or I will ask the MPs to follow closely. Therefore, the position which we are talking about is very clear that there is a problem, because certain people have determined who will be the perpetrators, so there has been a conflict of interest among different groups and therefore there is this law, and the position which this is clearly defined as being: If the chamber does not respond to the request of the Executive Trustee within five working days of the date of receipt, the Executive Trustee shall determine the perpetrators in whose area the executive debtor has residence, residence or headquarters, and the executioner who was previously designated by the Chamber at the request of the Executive Trustee or has been designated earlier by the Executive Trustee by the Executive Commissioner whose chamber at his request cannot be determined. Therefore, this view in the amendment of fellow Members of Parliament clearly refers to the huge objections that exist because the perpetrators are elected by some procedure, a far-reaching discretionary law. So the first good thing about this amendment is that it connects the chamber, the total number of perpetrators that can enter into execution, and thus tries to remove the current vague situation that is causing us to change this law. The second clarification in the first position of the amendment, which reads - the Executive Trustee, is obliged to require the chamber to determine the executioner to whom the proposal for enforcement is to be submitted on the basis of a credible document. In the basic text of the law that is before us, which is amended by this attitude, it has been left out to interpret whether it implies both public and public-public enterprises because the basic text of the law is based on public and similar services performed. When we see this text of the law with enough read texts of the law in front of it, then we see the intention to interpret it. If the intention to interpret is seen, which is the submission of this bill to remove existing interpretation, then it is my suggestion to listen more carefully to the proposal of the MP, counterpart Nedja Jovanovic. The second improvement in relation to the bill is already mentioned in Section 3 and is the way in which, even in the alphabetical order of its second entry into the names of the perpetrators and that, otherwise, a good idea is made to enable impartiality, objectivity, neutrality, to further explain that there would be no reason for reasonable doubt. The desire to be as the third important thing in this amendment to explain how much time it takes is also good. It doesn't change much at first sight, but if you put in five working days instead of five days, you leave reasonable enough time for the job to be done. Anyone who has good intentions to change the law that is before us should be very careful before the day of voting to consider the amendment that the MP has tabled. If there are certain parts or sentences from individual points of view of the amendments, which may be the subject of the dialogue, I am sure that it is better than not to vote for the amendment, because in the day of the vote it simply does not declare the amendment, it is called against or refuses, that it is better to accept this amendment than to leave a member of the law, Article 1 of the amendment and supplementing the law as it is. In addition to increasing the security that the process that the perpetrators are working on will be clarified, removing doubts, they would do one more thing that is personal to me, or show that we share confidence with the MP Neđe Jovanovic who said it - we are legislators. Sooner or later, we'll show it, this amendment is a chance to show it now and now. Thank you. Thank you. I would like to explain in a few sentences the reasons for the support, both the amendment submitted by MP Neđo Jovanovic and the explanation that was clear, thorough, clever and explained everything necessary when it comes to the amendment that he is changing the existing bill. The content of his amendment is about halfway between the ideas that we had in the changes and the difference that exists concerned the similarities with the executioners and the bankruptcy managers, that is, the idea of the executioners being the subject of public procurement, regardless of what remains of the idea that such as, as legal services concerning the users of the budget of direct and indirect cases of public procurement, that such a principle could have been developed here with all the objections that stand in it until we see for the bankruptcy managers. But three key things this amendment improves in the bill, except it defends in the explanation of fellow MP of our obligation, our rights when it comes to law-making, no matter how influential someone who suggested that the law be written. What three? The key problem for which we bring changes and complements is the obvious imbalance in the enforcement market and obviously applied to only individual contractors getting jobs and to clearly see the lines how and why they get jobs. The alphabet order didn't help, since we all know one of the perpetrators at A, who never... (Dear Nikolic, from the post: Chairman, this has nothing to do with this amendment. ) National MPs earn what does this amendment have to do with? It has something to do with Amendment 3 and I'm going to start with the first explanation. I will ask the chairman to intervene for a pass or I will ask the MPs to follow closely. Therefore, the position which we are talking about is very clear that there is a problem, because certain people have determined who will be the perpetrators, so there has been a conflict of interest among different groups and therefore there is this law, and the position which this is clearly defined as being: If the chamber does not respond to the request of the Executive Trustee within five working days of the date of receipt, the Executive Trustee shall determine the perpetrators in whose area the executive debtor has residence, residence or headquarters, and the executioner who was previously designated by the Chamber at the request of the Executive Trustee or has been designated earlier by the Executive Trustee by the Executive Commissioner whose chamber at his request cannot be determined. Therefore, this view in the amendment of fellow Members of Parliament clearly refers to the huge objections that exist because the perpetrators are elected by some procedure, a far-reaching discretionary law. So the first good thing about this amendment is that it connects the chamber, the total number of perpetrators that can enter into execution, and thus tries to remove the current vague situation that is causing us to change this law. The second clarification in the first position of the amendment, which reads - the Executive Trustee, is obliged to require the chamber to determine the executioner to whom the proposal for enforcement is to be submitted on the basis of a credible document. In the basic text of the law that is before us, which is amended by this attitude, it has been left out to interpret whether it implies both public and public-public enterprises because the basic text of the law is based on public and similar services performed. When we see this text of the law with enough read texts of the law in front of it, then we see the intention to interpret it. If the intention to interpret is seen, which is the submission of this bill to remove existing interpretation, then it is my suggestion to listen more carefully to the proposal of the MP, counterpart Nedja Jovanovic. The second improvement in relation to the bill is already mentioned in Section 3 and is the way in which, even in the alphabetical order of its second entry into the names of the perpetrators and that, otherwise, a good idea is made to enable impartiality, objectivity, neutrality, to further explain that there would be no reason for reasonable doubt. The desire to be as the third important thing in this amendment to explain how much time it takes is also good. It doesn't change much at first sight, but if you put in five working days instead of five days, you leave reasonable enough time for the job to be done. Anyone who has good intentions to change the law that is before us should be very careful before the day of voting to consider the amendment that the MP has tabled. If there are certain parts or sentences from individual points of view of the amendments, which may be the subject of the dialogue, I am sure that it is better than not to vote for the amendment, because in the day of the vote it simply does not declare the amendment, it is called against or refuses, that it is better to accept this amendment than to leave a member of the law, Article 1 of the amendment and supplementing the law as it is. In addition to increasing the security that the process that the perpetrators are working on will be clarified, removing doubts, they would do one more thing that is personal to me, or show that we share confidence with the MP Neđe Jovanovic who said it - we are legislators. Sooner or later, we'll show it, this amendment is a chance to show it now and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26080	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, aims to improve and make the rail system of the Republic of Serbia effective and integrate Serbian railways into EU rail systems. During the five-year follow-up period, many shortcomings in the current Railway Act have been observed. The lack of a valid railway law has been found by the Ministry of Traffic and Railway Directorates. In the course of law enforcement, shortcomings have been identified that required compliance with the new packages of the EU Directive, as well as the extension of the railway section. The Railway Directorate did not have the right under the existing law to submit sublegal acts adopted under the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic, although they are necessary for the safe conduct of rail traffic. The new draft law on railways as one of many objectives has exactly the aim of harmonising the law with the draft law on the safety and interoperability of railways that is done in parallel with this law. Special attention to the new law is given to the regulation of combined transport i.e. transport where most of the road is carried out by rail services. Despite this importance and potential, this part has been ignored by the current Law on Railways. In particular, the proposal for a railway law highlights the significant achievement and precision of the part of the law governing access to rail infrastructure and its improvement. Another newspaper envisioned by the new railway law is the introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme, which brings the National Assembly of RS to the government's proposal and represents an act of national importance in the railway area. The new law also envisions the realisation of railway infrastructure that was neglected during the previous period due to the weakened economy and the country's economy. The new law also provides for the rights and means of giving to the management of railway infrastructure. The new laws create conditions for several railway undertakings and railway infrastructure managers, which should lead to competition and increased transport quality in rail transport. The new law obliges the state to provide a sound financial structure, especially on existing rail transport that is state-owned and represents the national interest of the state. Several working subgroups were formed during the construction of a new law at different stages, consisting of representatives of the most significant stakeholders, which are related to the area of rail traffic, such as the Railway Directorate, the AD Railway of Serbia, the company for the construction of the railway node "Belgrade" DOO, the Faculty of Transport and the tweening consultant and experts from the French and Lithuanian transport ministries. Public debates were held on the draft of the railway law, so that all interested entities could deliver their suggestions and objections to this law. The draft law on railways was published on the Ministry's website for traffic operations. This is where suggestions and comments were provided by individual sectors of "Serb Railways" AD, which concerned the protection of railway infrastructure and the application of the law governing public property. The province's secretariat for the economy and employment of the AP Vojvodina addressed under this law to the AP Vojvodina. The new railway law has also been approved by the European Commission's competent authorities, whose proposals and suggestions have been accepted in the most part and this has led to a positive opinion from the European Integration Office. Finally, the adoption of this law by emergency procedure by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is necessary for a reason because the failure to pass this law by emergency procedure would lead to significant adverse consequences for rail traffic and railway infrastructure in RS, as well as for the overall economy of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will vote on this proposal. The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, aims to improve and make the rail system of the Republic of Serbia effective and integrate Serbian railways into EU rail systems. During the five-year follow-up period, many shortcomings in the current Railway Act have been observed. The lack of a valid railway law has been found by the Ministry of Traffic and Railway Directorates. In the course of law enforcement, shortcomings have been identified that required compliance with the new packages of the EU Directive, as well as the extension of the railway section. The Railway Directorate did not have the right under the existing law to submit sublegal acts adopted under the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic, although they are necessary for the safe conduct of rail traffic. The new draft law on railways as one of many objectives has exactly the aim of harmonising the law with the draft law on the safety and interoperability of railways that is done in parallel with this law. Special attention to the new law is given to the regulation of combined transport i.e. transport where most of the road is carried out by rail services. Despite this importance and potential, this part has been ignored by the current Law on Railways. In particular, the proposal for a railway law highlights the significant achievement and precision of the part of the law governing access to rail infrastructure and its improvement. Another newspaper envisioned by the new railway law is the introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme, which brings the National Assembly of RS to the government's proposal and represents an act of national importance in the railway area. The new law also envisions the realisation of railway infrastructure that was neglected during the previous period due to the weakened economy and the country's economy. The new law also provides for the rights and means of giving to the management of railway infrastructure. The new laws create conditions for several railway undertakings and railway infrastructure managers, which should lead to competition and increased transport quality in rail transport. The new law obliges the state to provide a sound financial structure, especially on existing rail transport that is state-owned and represents the national interest of the state. Several working subgroups were formed during the construction of a new law at different stages, consisting of representatives of the most significant stakeholders, which are related to the area of rail traffic, such as the Railway Directorate, the AD Railway of Serbia, the company for the construction of the railway node "Belgrade" DOO, the Faculty of Transport and the tweening consultant and experts from the French and Lithuanian transport ministries. Public debates were held on the draft of the railway law, so that all interested entities could deliver their suggestions and objections to this law. The draft law on railways was published on the Ministry's website for traffic operations. This is where suggestions and comments were provided by individual sectors of "Serb Railways" AD, which concerned the protection of railway infrastructure and the application of the law governing public property. The province's secretariat for the economy and employment of the AP Vojvodina addressed under this law to the AP Vojvodina. The new railway law has also been approved by the European Commission's competent authorities, whose proposals and suggestions have been accepted in the most part and this has led to a positive opinion from the European Integration Office. Finally, the adoption of this law by emergency procedure by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is necessary for a reason because the failure to pass this law by emergency procedure would lead to significant adverse consequences for rail traffic and railway infrastructure in RS, as well as for the overall economy of the Republic of Serbia. For this reason, the SNS parliamentary group in the voting day will vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26083	The fact is, for years back, we've been very irresponsible about creating this business environment. We've been here three months, we're already working on essential laws, although I think it'll fix us on the competitiveness list, and great attention will be directed right at fixing that business environment, and I think it'll give us exactly the result we're expecting. This race between the countries of the region that will give, donate more money, investors think it's a completely wrong policy. We can't deny the situation in our economy and someone has to look at that policy that's been led so far and recognizes that it was wrong. So, some kind of responsibility should exist and whoever led the economic policy so far would have to say – maybe the intentions were good, but the result was obviously wrong. That's what all Serbian citizens see, I think it's something so undisputed, that we should at least ask ourselves what the problem was. The Ministry and the Government have prepared a new package of measures, a new economic policy, a budget in the Department of Industry's work reflects this and the results of this policy will be measured in 2014.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26084	Thank you, Mrs. Comic. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the city: I answer the word. Mr. Jovanovic, on what basis? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: By amendment. You can't get a word now that you've been reported before. Professor Janko Veselinović came forward for the word. Here you go. Thank you, Mrs. Comic. (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the city: I answer the word. Mr. Jovanovic, on what basis? (Nedjo Jovanovic, from the post: By amendment. You can't get a word now that you've been reported before. Professor Janko Veselinović came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26086	The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov. The word has a folk letter from Radmila Gerov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26090	Chairman, I was persuaded by fellow counterparts Nedo Jovanovic that I voted in favour of this amendment in the voting day. Namely, as Col. Komic said, the basic problem that exists at the Institute of Implementation, or private perpetrators, is the fact that there was abuse. We may not all agree, or MPs of the opposition and the position on whether the law amending these provisions is a way of under the fact that the existing law is not applicable, so that we can make changes, counting that this law will be consistently applied. What do I mean? In the light of this law, it states that the reason for its change in the fact that there was an abuse in the implementation of the enforcement procedure, i.e. the granting of the right to enforce certain perpetrators. I believe that this could have been overcome in another way and that such an amendment was not necessary, that those who gave or trusted the executions were acting in accordance with the law, but I would say - both good customs and good business practices and had not been privileged. But in these places, as you know, there are people who were elected by this majority and they were supposed to enforce this existing law, not change the law. If we're changing the law, then we need to remove any additional possibility of abuse of that law. The provision given by counterpart Jovanovic, which complements the existing Article 252 where it is said that the award cannot be determined by an executor who had previously been designated by the Chamber at the request of the executive trustee because he had previously been designated by the executive trustee if the Chamber did not respond upon his request. So here, in one way, the criteria for the award of execution, which could not have been misused so far, were, by all accounts. Kola Jovanovic calls for an agreement that existed on this, which was widely accepted, so that one of these changes could be accepted because it is acceptable for the promoter, however, we come to what I was talking about at the beginning of this session. You, Mr. Jovanovic, have no one to convince. It seems to me that you have persuaded both opposition parliamentary groups to vote for your amendment, but there is no one to convince from the ruling coalition, or your partners are not in the O.R., there are very few left. That's why I think you should make an additional effort to get them back, talk to them or the heads of Parliament. I think supplementing this member would be very useful. I repeat once again, I will vote for this amendment in voter day. Thank you. Chairman, I was persuaded by fellow counterparts Nedo Jovanovic that I voted in favour of this amendment in the voting day. Namely, as Col. Komic said, the basic problem that exists at the Institute of Implementation, or private perpetrators, is the fact that there was abuse. We may not all agree, or MPs of the opposition and the position on whether the law amending these provisions is a way of under the fact that the existing law is not applicable, so that we can make changes, counting that this law will be consistently applied. What do I mean? In the light of this law, it states that the reason for its change in the fact that there was an abuse in the implementation of the enforcement procedure, i.e. the granting of the right to enforce certain perpetrators. I believe that this could have been overcome in another way and that such an amendment was not necessary, that those who gave or trusted the executions were acting in accordance with the law, but I would say - both good customs and good business practices and had not been privileged. But in these places, as you know, there are people who were elected by this majority and they were supposed to enforce this existing law, not change the law. If we're changing the law, then we need to remove any additional possibility of abuse of that law. The provision given by counterpart Jovanovic, which complements the existing Article 252 where it is said that the award cannot be determined by an executor who had previously been designated by the Chamber at the request of the executive trustee because he had previously been designated by the executive trustee if the Chamber did not respond upon his request. So here, in one way, the criteria for the award of execution, which could not have been misused so far, were, by all accounts. Kola Jovanovic calls for an agreement that existed on this, which was widely accepted, so that one of these changes could be accepted because it is acceptable for the promoter, however, we come to what I was talking about at the beginning of this session. You, Mr. Jovanovic, have no one to convince. It seems to me that you have persuaded both opposition parliamentary groups to vote for your amendment, but there is no one to convince from the ruling coalition, or your partners are not in the O.R., there are very few left. That's why I think you should make an additional effort to get them back, talk to them or the heads of Parliament. I think supplementing this member would be very useful. I repeat once again, I will vote for this amendment in voter day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26092	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have now come to the National Assembly to explain to us the three laws in Parliament, and you have done so in less than seven minutes, spending three minutes on the railway law and a little less than two minutes on each of these two laws that are on the agenda today. This shows how seriously you have prepared yourself for today's debate and what you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks about the railway, because I can understand that in three minutes you present some law where we have no problems, but there are too many problems in the railways that someone who is a serious minister would take just three minutes to present the law to the MPs. We don't have fast tracks. We don't have any stripes, and that's a fact. We have an AD "Serb Railway" with abnormally large debts. We had no opportunity to hear about this in the opening statement from you, and you started your presentation with the following words – I feel contentment, responsibility and willingness to listen and accept suggestions and opinions from the MPs. That's how you started your presentation. I hope I've quoted you correctly. Mr. Minister, I think you only said that because here in the Assembly when you arrive there is a direct transfer and it should be heard by the citizens of Serbia. If you really thought you had to listen to the opinions of the MPs and any suggestions, you would be present today at a session of the Committee of the National Assembly that discussed this law. You weren't there today. It is not the first committee when you, as a resolution minister, do not attend to explain to the MPs who are members of the board a certain law. You've never attended a committee before. You haven't explained any of the laws of your jurisdiction. You were not present on the previous committee. Over 20 questions were asked there by your assistant. Those questions were related to the traffic section. The assistant knew only one question and was told that we would get all the answers in writing. Minister, it's been over a month. We have not received any answers as board members to the question – whether the reconstruction of the Kladovo-Nish road is planned and many other questions that were asked then. Even today as MPs, members of the board, we have not had the opportunity to hear from you personally at the board's session what you think of "The Railways of Serbia", what are the debts of the public undertaking "The Railway of Serbia". We haven't been able to hear it here today in this part of the debate. We haven't had a chance to hear the answers to many other questions. What prevented you from attending the board meeting today? We didn't get that answer from either of your two assistants who were at the session today, nor did we get from the board president because no one knew what you were prevented from attending the board session. When you say that you respect the opinions and suggestions of the MPs, then I think that you should come to the board meeting or, as far as I'm concerned, it's no problem for us to propose to the chairman of the committee that the committee sessions are also transferred directly to RTS, so I hope that we will have the opportunity to hear from you certain views and opinions regarding some new law that you propose to Parliament. The serious government is proposing serious laws, laws that can be applied in practice, and the rail law that is on the agenda today is not and you know it very well. You stated in the light of the law that one reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with the packages of the EU directive, but you agreed with three instead of four directives as needed. We had an opportunity from your assistant to hear that with one directive you were unable to comply with the law because it would be too expensive. You say the paper in this law is the introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme, and this national programme should be done by the government, to be confirmed by the National Assembly for a period of five years. Do you think Ministers, in five years we can solve all problems of railway infrastructure or does it take a national programme to be 10, 15 or 20 years? What can we do in five years? There's nothing we can do, even though you're optimistic that we can safely do it. You said in the debate that no one in the state's leadership until 2008 knew there were corridors, that the railways were zero. You'll probably be developing a tendency for the sun to revolve around the Earth soon, not the other way around. The problems that need to be solved by this law, which you wrote in your explanation, and the main problem for you is that there are no specific powers of the Railway Directorate for the adoption of sublegal regulations necessary for the safe and smooth operation of rail traffic. Is that the only problem that needs to be solved by this law, because that's the only problem you've listed in the explanation? Positive regulations could have been passed by the government. If these are the only problems, then the law says 24 months to pass all sublaws, if that's the only problem you say in the law. The law also provides for public enterprise reforms or AD Railway Serbia in four new companies. How much less are those four companies gonna cost us? Do you have an economic account? If we separate the AD Railways of Serbia, how much less will it cost the state? Today we had a chance to hear that the savings won't be at least in the first few years. Now I have to ask you, is that in two years, three, five, twenty-five? In how many years, we can expect savings from the reform of the public business of the railways of Serbia. less subsidies from the Republic budget, autonomous province or local self-government? While I am at the public company of the Serbian Railways, I must quote you again, you said, the appropriate MP, Judita Popovic, that you have never run a political policy in human resources policy, right, and that next to you are the three assistants who are Velini, so you said. I have to ask you, since you have another new assistant involved in traffic security, Mr. Mirkovic, since such an answer, you were not present, I couldn't win at the board's session. Is he the assistant minister or not? Did Mr. Mirkovic resign or not? And if he is when, and if he isn't, how dare you as Minister to allow him to be appointed a member of the interim authority in Zajecar? Which is why, at that cabinet session, you did not relieve him of the role of assistant minister, because these are incompatible functions, since the provisional body performs legislative and executive functions. I have to ask you the next question right now, because today your assistant said he was in charge of another resort, and at the previous board session, we had a chance to hear that he was on vacation when he started working, so where is he today, where is he yesterday? He receives a salary from here from the Republic, not the Zajecar municipality, where a temporary organ was established yesterday? So you know very well that it's incompatible for someone to be a member of the interim body and assistant minister. And I'm asking you why you didn't release Mr. Mirkovic from the post of Assistant Minister? Since you say that we are not asking you about human policy and that we in the LDP think that the Director-General of the Railways of Serbia is an extremely bad solution for the railway, I have to ask you, since I didn't get a chance today to answer the question about this train crash, is there anyone responsible in this country because of the train crash? Why hasn't the director called? Why didn't you call as Minister? In some serious states, the director would resign that day, and you probably the next day. In Japan it would be far worse, but here in Serbia everything goes, anything can and can't. So trains crash and nobody gets hit. Minister, I can invite you to eastern Serbia. I'm sure you won't be in a position to see trains crash. Do you know why? The train can't crash itself, because there's only one train out of Nis through Srlig, Zajcar gets to Negotina, and then that same train goes back. When you spoke to Mr. Pastor today, you said like this -- do you think it was easy to convince the south and east of Serbia that railways in the north were first made. I have to ask you, Minister, who you convinced of us who live in eastern Serbia or those who live in southern Serbia that we first need to work north. You convinced the MPs who voted in favour of the $800m loan to Russia where it is known exactly for what purposes the loan would be used. You didn't convince me as an East Serbian MP, I didn't vote for it. Two URS MPs from Zaječar voted, one SNS MP from Zaječar and one from Bor, but you cannot convince citizens that it is a priority north, and that we do not have any right to rails in the east, nor do any rights have citizens in the south. Minister, over there, if the average in Serbia is to travel 40km per hour, then you should know that in eastern Serbia it does not travel at more than 10km per hour. You're welcome to run by the train, you'll be there before the train. If we look at this bill, that Article 9 also existed in a previous law where local self-government and autonomous provinces can demand to manage some of the railways, where there is no state interest. It's clear that local self-government can do that, because it takes a lot of money. What does it mean, Minister, a member of the 15th Law that says that the infrastructure manager can suspend public transport of passengers and goods on railway infrastructure or part of railway infrastructure where public transport of passengers and goods becomes inconclusive with the consent of the Government? If we look at the situation in that section of the railway in eastern Serbia, it is absolutely possible to expect that we will be in a very quick situation to completely suspend passenger traffic there, because it is not really profitable. It's not profitable if you have one train, the only train from Nis to Negotina, so you wait for that same train to return. It's the only means of transport, that train, for many old people living in villages, who don't have bus transportation. Thus, Timočka Krajina, meaning eastern Serbia, would be completely shut down. These people are taking the train to the doctor. When you have this kind of rail traffic, then you ask the question – how can we at least ask those of us living in these parts, you can apply Article 15? A few years ago, we were in a position to make a decision on the suspension of passenger traffic, and with some great effort, that traffic was restarted. If we have 3,800km of track, and we rebuild 11km annually, let it be 30, then it should be clear to all of us here that it takes at least 200 or 300 years to rebuild all existing railways in Serbia. So, two or three centuries with the pace you're working on. I really don't like it when you say it, it really bothers me, I don't think the ministers did that job better before you, but the world didn't start from you either. Years ago, Serbia's Railways have been producing losses and years ago, no one invests in railways. When you say that the previous government has done nothing and that you are now starting from zero, then I have to ask myself a simple question – how do you keep three ministerial assistants from the previous government who you say has been unable to do her job? Isn't it logical that those people who didn't work, now I apologize to you, you may be doing well, changing or only the minister was guilty? Minister, you're always showing some optimism, so we have completed the corridor, many paved miles and a lot of it. I'm sure this railroad law won't bring in any faster tracks, it won't bring in a quick reconstruction of the railroad, nor will we have safer and better traffic. Indeed, I invite you and the director of the Serbian Railways to resign. I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have now come to the National Assembly to explain to us the three laws in Parliament, and you have done so in less than seven minutes, spending three minutes on the railway law and a little less than two minutes on each of these two laws that are on the agenda today. This shows how seriously you have prepared yourself for today's debate and what you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia thinks about the railway, because I can understand that in three minutes you present some law where we have no problems, but there are too many problems in the railways that someone who is a serious minister would take just three minutes to present the law to the MPs. We don't have fast tracks. We don't have any stripes, and that's a fact. We have an AD "Serb Railway" with abnormally large debts. We had no opportunity to hear about this in the opening statement from you, and you started your presentation with the following words – I feel contentment, responsibility and willingness to listen and accept suggestions and opinions from the MPs. That's how you started your presentation. I hope I've quoted you correctly. Mr. Minister, I think you only said that because here in the Assembly when you arrive there is a direct transfer and it should be heard by the citizens of Serbia. If you really thought you had to listen to the opinions of the MPs and any suggestions, you would be present today at a session of the Committee of the National Assembly that discussed this law. You weren't there today. It is not the first committee when you, as a resolution minister, do not attend to explain to the MPs who are members of the board a certain law. You've never attended a committee before. You haven't explained any of the laws of your jurisdiction. You were not present on the previous committee. Over 20 questions were asked there by your assistant. Those questions were related to the traffic section. The assistant knew only one question and was told that we would get all the answers in writing. Minister, it's been over a month. We have not received any answers as board members to the question – whether the reconstruction of the Kladovo-Nish road is planned and many other questions that were asked then. Even today as MPs, members of the board, we have not had the opportunity to hear from you personally at the board's session what you think of "The Railways of Serbia", what are the debts of the public undertaking "The Railway of Serbia". We haven't been able to hear it here today in this part of the debate. We haven't had a chance to hear the answers to many other questions. What prevented you from attending the board meeting today? We didn't get that answer from either of your two assistants who were at the session today, nor did we get from the board president because no one knew what you were prevented from attending the board session. When you say that you respect the opinions and suggestions of the MPs, then I think that you should come to the board meeting or, as far as I'm concerned, it's no problem for us to propose to the chairman of the committee that the committee sessions are also transferred directly to RTS, so I hope that we will have the opportunity to hear from you certain views and opinions regarding some new law that you propose to Parliament. The serious government is proposing serious laws, laws that can be applied in practice, and the rail law that is on the agenda today is not and you know it very well. You stated in the light of the law that one reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with the packages of the EU directive, but you agreed with three instead of four directives as needed. We had an opportunity from your assistant to hear that with one directive you were unable to comply with the law because it would be too expensive. You say the paper in this law is the introduction of a national railway infrastructure programme, and this national programme should be done by the government, to be confirmed by the National Assembly for a period of five years. Do you think Ministers, in five years we can solve all problems of railway infrastructure or does it take a national programme to be 10, 15 or 20 years? What can we do in five years? There's nothing we can do, even though you're optimistic that we can safely do it. You said in the debate that no one in the state's leadership until 2008 knew there were corridors, that the railways were zero. You'll probably be developing a tendency for the sun to revolve around the Earth soon, not the other way around. The problems that need to be solved by this law, which you wrote in your explanation, and the main problem for you is that there are no specific powers of the Railway Directorate for the adoption of sublegal regulations necessary for the safe and smooth operation of rail traffic. Is that the only problem that needs to be solved by this law, because that's the only problem you've listed in the explanation? Positive regulations could have been passed by the government. If these are the only problems, then the law says 24 months to pass all sublaws, if that's the only problem you say in the law. The law also provides for public enterprise reforms or AD Railway Serbia in four new companies. How much less are those four companies gonna cost us? Do you have an economic account? If we separate the AD Railways of Serbia, how much less will it cost the state? Today we had a chance to hear that the savings won't be at least in the first few years. Now I have to ask you, is that in two years, three, five, twenty-five? In how many years, we can expect savings from the reform of the public business of the railways of Serbia. less subsidies from the Republic budget, autonomous province or local self-government? While I am at the public company of the Serbian Railways, I must quote you again, you said, the appropriate MP, Judita Popovic, that you have never run a political policy in human resources policy, right, and that next to you are the three assistants who are Velini, so you said. I have to ask you, since you have another new assistant involved in traffic security, Mr. Mirkovic, since such an answer, you were not present, I couldn't win at the board's session. Is he the assistant minister or not? Did Mr. Mirkovic resign or not? And if he is when, and if he isn't, how dare you as Minister to allow him to be appointed a member of the interim authority in Zajecar? Which is why, at that cabinet session, you did not relieve him of the role of assistant minister, because these are incompatible functions, since the provisional body performs legislative and executive functions. I have to ask you the next question right now, because today your assistant said he was in charge of another resort, and at the previous board session, we had a chance to hear that he was on vacation when he started working, so where is he today, where is he yesterday? He receives a salary from here from the Republic, not the Zajecar municipality, where a temporary organ was established yesterday? So you know very well that it's incompatible for someone to be a member of the interim body and assistant minister. And I'm asking you why you didn't release Mr. Mirkovic from the post of Assistant Minister? Since you say that we are not asking you about human policy and that we in the LDP think that the Director-General of the Railways of Serbia is an extremely bad solution for the railway, I have to ask you, since I didn't get a chance today to answer the question about this train crash, is there anyone responsible in this country because of the train crash? Why hasn't the director called? Why didn't you call as Minister? In some serious states, the director would resign that day, and you probably the next day. In Japan it would be far worse, but here in Serbia everything goes, anything can and can't. So trains crash and nobody gets hit. Minister, I can invite you to eastern Serbia. I'm sure you won't be in a position to see trains crash. Do you know why? The train can't crash itself, because there's only one train out of Nis through Srlig, Zajcar gets to Negotina, and then that same train goes back. When you spoke to Mr. Pastor today, you said like this -- do you think it was easy to convince the south and east of Serbia that railways in the north were first made. I have to ask you, Minister, who you convinced of us who live in eastern Serbia or those who live in southern Serbia that we first need to work north. You convinced the MPs who voted in favour of the $800m loan to Russia where it is known exactly for what purposes the loan would be used. You didn't convince me as an East Serbian MP, I didn't vote for it. Two URS MPs from Zaječar voted, one SNS MP from Zaječar and one from Bor, but you cannot convince citizens that it is a priority north, and that we do not have any right to rails in the east, nor do any rights have citizens in the south. Minister, over there, if the average in Serbia is to travel 40km per hour, then you should know that in eastern Serbia it does not travel at more than 10km per hour. You're welcome to run by the train, you'll be there before the train. If we look at this bill, that Article 9 also existed in a previous law where local self-government and autonomous provinces can demand to manage some of the railways, where there is no state interest. It's clear that local self-government can do that, because it takes a lot of money. What does it mean, Minister, a member of the 15th Law that says that the infrastructure manager can suspend public transport of passengers and goods on railway infrastructure or part of railway infrastructure where public transport of passengers and goods becomes inconclusive with the consent of the Government? If we look at the situation in that section of the railway in eastern Serbia, it is absolutely possible to expect that we will be in a very quick situation to completely suspend passenger traffic there, because it is not really profitable. It's not profitable if you have one train, the only train from Nis to Negotina, so you wait for that same train to return. It's the only means of transport, that train, for many old people living in villages, who don't have bus transportation. Thus, Timočka Krajina, meaning eastern Serbia, would be completely shut down. These people are taking the train to the doctor. When you have this kind of rail traffic, then you ask the question – how can we at least ask those of us living in these parts, you can apply Article 15? A few years ago, we were in a position to make a decision on the suspension of passenger traffic, and with some great effort, that traffic was restarted. If we have 3,800km of track, and we rebuild 11km annually, let it be 30, then it should be clear to all of us here that it takes at least 200 or 300 years to rebuild all existing railways in Serbia. So, two or three centuries with the pace you're working on. I really don't like it when you say it, it really bothers me, I don't think the ministers did that job better before you, but the world didn't start from you either. Years ago, Serbia's Railways have been producing losses and years ago, no one invests in railways. When you say that the previous government has done nothing and that you are now starting from zero, then I have to ask myself a simple question – how do you keep three ministerial assistants from the previous government who you say has been unable to do her job? Isn't it logical that those people who didn't work, now I apologize to you, you may be doing well, changing or only the minister was guilty? Minister, you're always showing some optimism, so we have completed the corridor, many paved miles and a lot of it. I'm sure this railroad law won't bring in any faster tracks, it won't bring in a quick reconstruction of the railroad, nor will we have safer and better traffic. Indeed, I invite you and the director of the Serbian Railways to resign.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26095	Just to be very clear about public enterprises, demagogy is to cut wages to someone who manages something that needs to go into the budget and who's responsible for millions. Just as demagogy, that the ministerial salaries are small, that is where I supported you and I believe that the Minister of Business, who is resolute for some of these companies, will agree, is to implement the law on public enterprises and to set up people who deserve to earn more than 100 and 150 thousand, because these companies will run professionally and, in accordance with their impact, will earn adequate money. We're going to change that, but that's what they'll see. As far as the place is concerned, of course the formula is everything we've done. We've taken subsidies from the local public utility companies that are still in trouble. We're down 30%. For that amount, we reduced the transfers where it was mathematically possible, or where we wouldn't have driven the transfers to minus. Why did we do that? Because as we want to get rid of ourselves in an adequate way of this bleeding that we have in relation to the enterprises in restructuring, we want the same way public companies. Where it is not working to address the problem of public utility companies, which are also public enterprises, many of which do not operate in a sustainable way. With that goal and with that logic are reduced transfers to the locale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26096	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go. Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26098	Thank you. Considering it's 17.55 hours now, we're done. I'm sorry, Mrkonjic has the word. Here you go. Thank you. Considering it's 17.55 hours now, we're done. I'm sorry, Mrkonjic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26102	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, find it difficult for those supported by DS or that party who left the party, with an explanation of this amendment that absolutely has nothing to do with the amendment Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic gave on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. So these arguments we've heard are absolutely about the amendments and additions to the laws that we've given as a parliamentary group. That's one commendation, and I thank you very much for it. You obviously understood that our goal was to do what you said, and in that sense, I welcome that you will vote for an amendment to the Security and Enforcement Act that we have proposed, and probably for this amendment as well. In the principle debate, I have argued that, as for the five working days covered by this amendment by Mr Neđo Jovanovic, for the reply to the Chamber of Trustees, I cannot say that I will now be against it, but in the voting day I will vote for this amendment, but we as a parliamentary group, of course, and I as part of it, will vote for the law as we have proposed and in this way, I am afraid that we will not accept your amendment, and I will explain why. At the same time I ask you to, together with your coalition partners with whom you are in power, which is the SNS, vote for this law and I am convinced that you, as a very correct coalition partner so far, will do so and that this attempt to create some dissonant tone between us and you, and that between the DS and the other one who has escaped from them, will not make any difference. Because of the public, I just want to explain why we didn't accept this amendment. The Law on Liabilities states as we have written in Article 252(1), where it is said that the Executive Trustee is obliged to make a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, in order to obtain a monetary claim on the basis of public and similar services performed, to require the Chamber to determine which execution proposal will be submitted on the basis of a credible document. It stands and this is the formulation of the Bond Relations Act, which we haven't changed, which we'll probably be changing next year. You didn't copy that. If it were, we would accept in general this amendment of yours. You've formulated it differently. You've only made one change. I will read it again because of the public: "The executive trustee is obliged to require the Chamber before submitting a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, in order to achieve a monetary claim on the basis of the services carried out from the public and public-community companies' activities, to determine the executioner to whom a proposal for enforcement will be submitted on the basis of a credible document". And because of this, which is the difference in that definition, we wouldn't want to violate the Bond Relations Act. We wouldn't want to do that, and you gave us this amendment in one text. If you had separated him, this would have been accepted in five working days, I guarantee you, because it's perfectly logical, it's in agreement with the Security and Implementation Act, because in all other cases that five working days are valid. Again, I have the right as an MP for the Serbian Progressive Party to vote on my conscience. I will vote in voting day for this amendment, but in general I will vote in favour of the legal text, as we as a parliamentary group have proposed. Thank you. Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, find it difficult for those supported by DS or that party who left the party, with an explanation of this amendment that absolutely has nothing to do with the amendment Mr. Nedjo Jovanovic gave on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. So these arguments we've heard are absolutely about the amendments and additions to the laws that we've given as a parliamentary group. That's one commendation, and I thank you very much for it. You obviously understood that our goal was to do what you said, and in that sense, I welcome that you will vote for an amendment to the Security and Enforcement Act that we have proposed, and probably for this amendment as well. In the principle debate, I have argued that, as for the five working days covered by this amendment by Mr Neđo Jovanovic, for the reply to the Chamber of Trustees, I cannot say that I will now be against it, but in the voting day I will vote for this amendment, but we as a parliamentary group, of course, and I as part of it, will vote for the law as we have proposed and in this way, I am afraid that we will not accept your amendment, and I will explain why. At the same time I ask you to, together with your coalition partners with whom you are in power, which is the SNS, vote for this law and I am convinced that you, as a very correct coalition partner so far, will do so and that this attempt to create some dissonant tone between us and you, and that between the DS and the other one who has escaped from them, will not make any difference. Because of the public, I just want to explain why we didn't accept this amendment. The Law on Liabilities states as we have written in Article 252(1), where it is said that the Executive Trustee is obliged to make a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, in order to obtain a monetary claim on the basis of public and similar services performed, to require the Chamber to determine which execution proposal will be submitted on the basis of a credible document. It stands and this is the formulation of the Bond Relations Act, which we haven't changed, which we'll probably be changing next year. You didn't copy that. If it were, we would accept in general this amendment of yours. You've formulated it differently. You've only made one change. I will read it again because of the public: "The executive trustee is obliged to require the Chamber before submitting a proposal for enforcement on the basis of a credible document, in order to achieve a monetary claim on the basis of the services carried out from the public and public-community companies' activities, to determine the executioner to whom a proposal for enforcement will be submitted on the basis of a credible document". And because of this, which is the difference in that definition, we wouldn't want to violate the Bond Relations Act. We wouldn't want to do that, and you gave us this amendment in one text. If you had separated him, this would have been accepted in five working days, I guarantee you, because it's perfectly logical, it's in agreement with the Security and Implementation Act, because in all other cases that five working days are valid. Again, I have the right as an MP for the Serbian Progressive Party to vote on my conscience. I will vote in voting day for this amendment, but in general I will vote in favour of the legal text, as we as a parliamentary group have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26104	I'd be sorry if I didn't answer Miss or Mrs. Gerov, at least a little bit. I thought that in years, in which the shortness of time in the story means plus, in some other things, maybe minus, I was just short. All MPs had the law in mind, so I didn't mean to insult myself by imposing my thoughts, why did the lady or the lady accuse me of what I think of the law? I think about the law as well as we've applied some things from European standards and how much we're going to change things on the scale of that law, and no law is ideal. That's why I was very short, and I'll always be brief when I talk about laws. As far as criticism is concerned, of course that in years of knowledge, I say the second time, what is the situation in eastern Serbia, western Serbia and the north. I didn't mention the tracks, I was talking about the road. As always in Serbia, years ago, there are a lot of people here who remember what I'm saying. I'm watching Mom Colakovic, my friend, always made up his mind, whether the north, whether the south, whether the east, whether the west. That doesn't need to be hidden, what's the problem? But when we talked about it, then we said, let's, let's say, go to Corridor 10 on the highway, we're going north, we're going east, we're going south, and we did it parallelly, and we did it. Now they're working on these construction sites. The north was finished because the geography was easier. So, I was talking about the road, not the railroad. As far as the railroad itself is concerned, it's not going to be a law that we're adopting today, so I thought we should pay more attention to the law, change anything if we, in the implementation of that law, when I say, think of ourselves first, are not in that sense effective, to follow what the law says. I said it once, and I'm going to do it one more time. It is important to separate infrastructure and infrastructure costs from transport. It's already a big deal for our railroad. That's what guarantees that we'll be able to keep track of the costs and that what you're saying, subsidies from the state, to call them that, to cut them short. I will personally try, if there is no reconstruction in the government or any other changes, and I am grateful to you for suggesting that you replace me. With special pleasure, maybe I'll hear that, and if it doesn't, I'll follow it, and I'll try to make this happen, so we finally know what's costing us what. That's the point. That's not how it's been so far. Now I hope it will be. What is very important, this transport competition, I repeat for the third time, is very important that even private people who have the opportunity to compete with a state-owned transport company. I think it's important things in the law and the law defines it. Of course, the railway program in general, you're absolutely right, it has to be under day-to-day control not only of the government but of the Assembly, we'll see how we do it. The railroad is a large system without which the state should not operate and cannot operate. As for the other things, I'm grateful for the proposal to take my place. With special pleasure, I'll accept that. I'm not mad at you. When a woman so beautiful replaces me, it's a big deal and believe me, I'm very happy about it. Thank you. I'd be sorry if I didn't answer Miss or Mrs. Gerov, at least a little bit. I thought that in years, in which the shortness of time in the story means plus, in some other things, maybe minus, I was just short. All MPs had the law in mind, so I didn't mean to insult myself by imposing my thoughts, why did the lady or the lady accuse me of what I think of the law? I think about the law as well as we've applied some things from European standards and how much we're going to change things on the scale of that law, and no law is ideal. That's why I was very short, and I'll always be brief when I talk about laws. As far as criticism is concerned, of course that in years of knowledge, I say the second time, what is the situation in eastern Serbia, western Serbia and the north. I didn't mention the tracks, I was talking about the road. As always in Serbia, years ago, there are a lot of people here who remember what I'm saying. I'm watching Mom Colakovic, my friend, always made up his mind, whether the north, whether the south, whether the east, whether the west. That doesn't need to be hidden, what's the problem? But when we talked about it, then we said, let's, let's say, go to Corridor 10 on the highway, we're going north, we're going east, we're going south, and we did it parallelly, and we did it. Now they're working on these construction sites. The north was finished because the geography was easier. So, I was talking about the road, not the railroad. As far as the railroad itself is concerned, it's not going to be a law that we're adopting today, so I thought we should pay more attention to the law, change anything if we, in the implementation of that law, when I say, think of ourselves first, are not in that sense effective, to follow what the law says. I said it once, and I'm going to do it one more time. It is important to separate infrastructure and infrastructure costs from transport. It's already a big deal for our railroad. That's what guarantees that we'll be able to keep track of the costs and that what you're saying, subsidies from the state, to call them that, to cut them short. I will personally try, if there is no reconstruction in the government or any other changes, and I am grateful to you for suggesting that you replace me. With special pleasure, maybe I'll hear that, and if it doesn't, I'll follow it, and I'll try to make this happen, so we finally know what's costing us what. That's the point. That's not how it's been so far. Now I hope it will be. What is very important, this transport competition, I repeat for the third time, is very important that even private people who have the opportunity to compete with a state-owned transport company. I think it's important things in the law and the law defines it. Of course, the railway program in general, you're absolutely right, it has to be under day-to-day control not only of the government but of the Assembly, we'll see how we do it. The railroad is a large system without which the state should not operate and cannot operate. As for the other things, I'm grateful for the proposal to take my place. With special pleasure, I'll accept that. I'm not mad at you. When a woman so beautiful replaces me, it's a big deal and believe me, I'm very happy about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26107	Minister Krstic, I won't replicate. We'll say something when we submit amendments to the funding of local self-government. But to you, Minister Radulovich, I want to replicate. You're a young man, unfortunately I'm not anymore, but by the year 2000, I worked in production and in factories that were iced, shared three stamps of pay and were completely devastated and ruined. I find it touching to talk today about the last 10 years of the failure of the Serbian economy, as if we had entered Switzerland in 2000, and that we had ruined everything in 10 years. Yeah, there were bad moves and I agree, that's right. But you just pointed your finger at something that was good, very good. It encourages those who have opened big world brands in our country, who have increased exports, who have hired people. I'm not saying that there may have been individual problems in that programme, but instead of promoting the programme, you have put out the last hope that Serbia can come, with the incentives of a new Fiat, a new Mercedes, a new Panasonic, and tomorrow with the term "made in Serbia" around the world, our products are being sold. In this way, by resuscitating with ID cards and by cleaning the balances of companies that were failed in 2000, I worked in one of them, you won't achieve any increase in production, no employment of people, no new investment. You'll only make new people and new people on the street.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26108	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go. Thank you. The word has been given by MP Nedjo Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26110	Thank you. Radmila Gerov, replica. Here you go. Thank you. Radmila Gerov, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26114	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, to point out something I pointed out at the outset. When I spoke in principle about both the law and the possibility of improving the quality of the law with amendments, I said that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group would support amendments and additions in the voting day. What the amendment has tried and has experienced today is certain support in this House in no way has any reflection on the functioning of our coalition composition and on our coalition capacity. What every MP has the right, has the right to define himself according to the amendment, according to his own free will and to indicate whether the amendment is acceptable or not. I'm justified and professional, and I tried to make it as professionally as possible, and when I said I had support, I said that it was the support of the profession, pointing to something that should be an improvement in quality. In any case, we have on the one hand the obligation to make laws in a way that is and how significant to the citizens, that is, in their best interests, and on the other hand, it implies that the laws are practically applicable, clear and unequivocal. Of course, dear colleagues, especially my colleague, Nikolic, I would like to accept your position as colleagues who, from a professional point of view, are determined according to the amendment. I'm glad you're voting for that amendment. As regards what is related to the law and the necessity to change the law, that is the essence and the essence of these necessary changes are going towards what is the basic objective, and the main objective is to introduce order in the executive procedure, and especially in that part of the executive procedure relating to the selection of the enforcer. That's why, in that direction, these changes and additions will be supported by the SPS, as always. Thank you. Thank you, Chairman. First of all, to point out something I pointed out at the outset. When I spoke in principle about both the law and the possibility of improving the quality of the law with amendments, I said that the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group would support amendments and additions in the voting day. What the amendment has tried and has experienced today is certain support in this House in no way has any reflection on the functioning of our coalition composition and on our coalition capacity. What every MP has the right, has the right to define himself according to the amendment, according to his own free will and to indicate whether the amendment is acceptable or not. I'm justified and professional, and I tried to make it as professionally as possible, and when I said I had support, I said that it was the support of the profession, pointing to something that should be an improvement in quality. In any case, we have on the one hand the obligation to make laws in a way that is and how significant to the citizens, that is, in their best interests, and on the other hand, it implies that the laws are practically applicable, clear and unequivocal. Of course, dear colleagues, especially my colleague, Nikolic, I would like to accept your position as colleagues who, from a professional point of view, are determined according to the amendment. I'm glad you're voting for that amendment. As regards what is related to the law and the necessity to change the law, that is the essence and the essence of these necessary changes are going towards what is the basic objective, and the main objective is to introduce order in the executive procedure, and especially in that part of the executive procedure relating to the selection of the enforcer. That's why, in that direction, these changes and additions will be supported by the SPS, as always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26116	Minister, you do not answer my question again – what is the debt of the Serbian railway company? When you say that any law can be applied and that you would like this law to be applicable in practice, and that it depends on you and on the government and on those people who are in the leading places, above all, you will agree, depending on the CEO of the Railways of Serbia until it is divided into four long companies. Then the question arises, since Mr Simonovic was appointed before the Law on Public Enterprises entered into force, a man who has graduated from the Union College, where is his basic recommendation that he was president of the Union of Youth or something – as long as, ministers, this government and this state favour the staff from private colleges at the expense of staff and students from the state college? Do you think, as minister, that he is an excellent solution, Mr Simonovic, and that he will be able to implement a law that is on the agenda today? I absolutely believe that he can't make it out, which means that even if you say that you have a good intention of being applied in practice, it won't be applied because of such personnel. Minister, you do not answer my question again – what is the debt of the Serbian railway company? When you say that any law can be applied and that you would like this law to be applicable in practice, and that it depends on you and on the government and on those people who are in the leading places, above all, you will agree, depending on the CEO of the Railways of Serbia until it is divided into four long companies. Then the question arises, since Mr Simonovic was appointed before the Law on Public Enterprises entered into force, a man who has graduated from the Union College, where is his basic recommendation that he was president of the Union of Youth or something – as long as, ministers, this government and this state favour the staff from private colleges at the expense of staff and students from the state college? Do you think, as minister, that he is an excellent solution, Mr Simonovic, and that he will be able to implement a law that is on the agenda today? I absolutely believe that he can't make it out, which means that even if you say that you have a good intention of being applied in practice, it won't be applied because of such personnel.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26119	What they say, they were alive and saw. Since what we are doing will be measured by all citizens of Serbia, so that what we expect is made public. Of course we came out of the '90s with a very bad economic situation. But in the last ten years, we have completely devastated these companies, one of the great irresponsibility of state authorities, especially the ministry run by the economy, then, the privatisation agency that should have taken care of them. Ten years of unhappiness, abandoning these companies, and today we have a situation that we have. Yes, I really think that putting these companies on healthy feet, cleaning from debts, that it will also represent an investment opportunity for Serbia and an opportunity to get to economic growth, and I think that's the central theme for us in 2014. About these subsidies, I repeat again, while we were buying jobs in a dozen, we lost a thousand. And in every account you have to see the money you've given, what you get from it, and who suffers the damage of the dinars you've lost. When we look at all the programs and see what this is about and what benefits we have, it is an unequivocal result, that is, the conclusion that this is one wrong policy and that this policy should be abandoned. We need to base ourselves on the domestic economy. I will say once again for the end, in 2014 and 2015, the results of this policy will be measured, so we will really see whether the Government is right or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26120	Thank you. The word is made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, following the amendment. Thank you. The word is made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, following the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26122	Minister Mrkonjic. Minister Mrkonjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26126	Thank you. I would just like to make some kind of public consultation with Mr. Neđa Jovanovic, because this amendment is both good and good. Thank you. I would just like to make some kind of public consultation with Mr. Neđa Jovanovic, because this amendment is both good and good.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26128	I must say, I believe that Mr. Simonovic, together with me, will make this law known. Once again, I underline, the party, although I don't like to talk about politics, which has the most votes, has the right to set up personnel. Of course, it's our job to ask for the responsibility of those personnel. I didn't answer the question about Mr. Mirkovic. Yes, Mirkovic is an assistant transport minister in the area of traffic security. He's set up in the place you're talking about before the holiday and tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we'll have the right attitude, what can happen to him about what you said. He resigned, but he resigned, and today he's on vacation and I can't control him, he has the right to be in Zajecar. So I'll know in a day or two. I'm calling you personally, until you change me, please, I'm at Nemanja's 11, whenever you want. All these topics you've been talking about, every MP, I'm ready all day to spend and to agree on it and tell you my opinion and the state of the railways. Thank you very much for understanding. I must say, I believe that Mr. Simonovic, together with me, will make this law known. Once again, I underline, the party, although I don't like to talk about politics, which has the most votes, has the right to set up personnel. Of course, it's our job to ask for the responsibility of those personnel. I didn't answer the question about Mr. Mirkovic. Yes, Mirkovic is an assistant transport minister in the area of traffic security. He's set up in the place you're talking about before the holiday and tomorrow or the day after tomorrow we'll have the right attitude, what can happen to him about what you said. He resigned, but he resigned, and today he's on vacation and I can't control him, he has the right to be in Zajecar. So I'll know in a day or two. I'm calling you personally, until you change me, please, I'm at Nemanja's 11, whenever you want. All these topics you've been talking about, every MP, I'm ready all day to spend and to agree on it and tell you my opinion and the state of the railways. Thank you very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26131	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected finance ministers, economy ministers, as far as the SPS parliamentary group is concerned, I must repeat the position expressed by counterpart Kasalovic as authorized in front of the parliamentary group, that the SPS parliamentary group fully supports this budget as we have supported those accompanying laws that rely on this budget. What we can do after this informal discussion that lasted all these days on the budget is we say that maybe the right time has come to analyze a little bit and some of the details that have essentially surfaced in the meantime, so to speak, during this debate, and as I do, a very strange replacement of the thesis that persists here. I've been listening to everything, believe me. I don't know what it's like for Serbian citizens. So much concern for doctors by those who have been leading health care for ten years, who we have found in the condition in which we found him, and to those top experts who have come to help us with our time in the country, and now they sit here and today I see that they advise younger colleagues, but they can't tell them what the reason we're in this situation is. Is it a combination of not knowing or were the evil intentions of the tailor of our destiny? It's an interesting attempt... You can see that my colleague Djelic is throwing me extremely nervous. I don't know why. I can freely put his picture on and wear it and tell these workers in front of what they're strikein' and they're complaining that the main culprit is number one Bozidar Djelic for all of this which is why we're in this situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26132	Mr. Vesenovicu, speak directly to me, and Mr. Jovanovic will understand that. Mr. Vesenovicu, speak directly to me, and Mr. Jovanovic will understand that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26134	Thank you. We're finishing work for today and continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 1800 hours]] Thank you. We're finishing work for today and continuing tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 1800 hours]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26138	I said that in the day of voting I would support this amendment, but I would ask the fellow who has proposed this amendment, if he thinks that my voice and the voice of the opposition will endanger their coalition, let him tell us, and we will be abstained in the day of the vote. We wouldn't want to spoil the personal atmosphere in this coalition, since I see that one amendment can break it. Thank you. I said that in the day of voting I would support this amendment, but I would ask the fellow who has proposed this amendment, if he thinks that my voice and the voice of the opposition will endanger their coalition, let him tell us, and we will be abstained in the day of the vote. We wouldn't want to spoil the personal atmosphere in this coalition, since I see that one amendment can break it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26140	It's interesting for me to try to banish a thing, how economic policies have been conducted in this country, and they've resulted in problems we're in and we can't remove them for a short period of time. Simply, such a situation requires patience and effective work. It's even weirder, not to use a strong word, that the creators of the absurd and the main creators of the destruction of the Serbian economy today appear as critics of all of what the ministers are saying and I can only define it as some subsequent mind, I don't know what else to say about these people. Then it is said: chances for young people do not exist. I'm going back and I'm saying now that we're renting hours and hours on state television and playing all that and what the effects of what we've been doing and what the mistakes of the past have been and why we've come into this situation that we're in today... You're wondering about some phantom salaries. My people, in public enterprises, we need to give good pay managers, not to give some agencies, imaginary jobs to pay higher than the chiefs of cabinets and assistants of some agency presidents have, rather than the director of a company that manages property worth several billion. It's absurds. The question is, where did our money go? Why were there enormous fees on boards in one period since 2006? That's what we need to talk about. If there was an income from this robbery privatisation, and we of the SPS are free to say that it was and has proven itself, because 30 of some large ones have been cancelled, half of them have been cancelled, and these people are on the streets and I don't want to talk about the models that are going through here -- how some businesses are subsidized and how foreign investors are being brought in. I'll say it in short, so let the one who did it be recognized and why he did it like that. Anyone who's ever done business and as a businessman who earns money and sells some of their knowledge, I don't think it has anything to do with that other story of lobbying that keeps going on here, because the difference is making that money, making the money that you need to give to someone who comes into your country tomorrow to invest. I understand why this knowledge and this ignorance, in order to call them, are not entirely known. They are known to those who have done this and have so far created some economic policies and I can say that they have led us to the ambis because they have never been in the economy and never invested their money, and that is why they have brought the economy into the situation in which it is today. There are no subsidies, incentives, reliefs and other instruments that can hide the fact that investors didn't want to come to our country because our economic system is, I must say, rotten. Foreign investors themselves, but serious foreign investors, have seen the state of our economy and what our businessmen are in because it's obvious that you have to have a political back to do something. You have to have a political back to get some credit from the Development Fund, and so does a colleague who had just discussed it, who was a member of the Management Board of that fund, if I'm not mistaken, and was directly responsible for identifying certain funds from that fund. It's just, all that money you have to take away from someone, from someone who's working and who's forcing in our country to give someone else, he's got to be staring at the absurds. We can't run our companies that way. To present one piece of information, we are now giving three percent of what workers and employers in our country earn to play, I have to express myself, making up some reality, and we are going to the EU in which that figure is at least four times smaller. It doesn't matter. This isn't just about the EU story. This is about asking a question – what is the reason for poor Serbia to pay rich France, South Korea and all those countries that come to work in Serbia? Is it natural that, as one colleague would say, a poor farmer from southern Serbia pays and gives of his bread to the richest people in the world to earn money in Serbia? Isn't that absurd? I don't know what more we need to talk about without talking about the water heaters. Subsidies have been given to a company that will produce water heaters next to the company that produced water heaters and which has been destroyed and which is one of the examples of bad promotions in our country. Why don't we say so? Why doesn't someone call them in those middles and say it's like that? You pay to bring competition to your economy. I don't know what these people's intentions were. Not to set an example of the banking system, we can talk about it by tomorrow. These lobbyists, these experts who came to the side, so they quickly brought all these measures in, ruined everything worth it in this country, those who appear, they are recognized. I have to say, what I've already said, we can't take from the poor to give to the rich and take from our business to give to foreign companies. But let me point out what I think would be "epochal" to call it. We're getting some epochal and economic failures all over the place, where we literally pay everything, so someone takes some companies that are worth millions in supplies, and some big systems are torn apart, so what's healthy is privatized or divided, and some big profits are made when these systems are torn apart. What we are paving about for days and during that debate when the Fifth Budget Forum was, one of the teachers saw it got up and said – people can't expect from the directors of some public enterprises to get something at a higher price, and to sell it at a lower price, and that the same goods can't be charged tomorrow from objective circumstances, circumstances in which our country is located, to put them on a pillar of shame that they're not good managers. Let's get some things straight and separate some things from each other. If this were to start operating on market conditions and have profitable prices, then there would be problems because the situation in Serbia is what it is. I don't want to talk about the guilty. I can talk about the guilty until the day after tomorrow, and we can do analysis, how much debt anybody owed, and how much they wrote off the Paris Club, and then made an arrangement with the IMF, then six years of grace period, and then we get back to 2008, and then we start paying off interest. This is for serious discussion, one serious analysis. I think that some of them who are still sitting here, and admit they're experts in all European countries, are sitting just to defend, to distract us, to simply stutter and to hide the truth about why we're in this situation. We can notice that lately, which is very interesting, lush and economic consulting, which I find extremely unusual, it helps the economy, and then we have companies that don't have to run business books for up to six million dinars, and they pay a tax that's at the level of six million dinars of traffic, at 2%-3% a year. That's all. Such agencies have been massive lately. I don't want to scare the citizens of Serbia now, what the intentions of these agencies are, and what it means to increase that tax limit to six million. That's not all. For those 2%-3%, you get pension and health insurance. It is well known that the price of wealth is to share it with the poor. That's what we stand for as an SPS, but obviously it hasn't been that way in the past. Unfortunately, in this country, a regular worker has to give 70 dinars of tax on every 100 dinars of net wages, so here's an example where some rich people, who have a little more and who can get priority jobs, deal with consulting, pay 2%-3 percent of what they earn. I'm gonna make a little joke. When I was a kid, I read "Alan Ford," so you had that Super Hick. Now, this was the economy of Super Hika – taken from the poor and given to the rich. It's so obvious. Comedy little, but this is true, unfortunately. It's in the comic book, and this is in Serbia. That's how we got into trouble, and the problem is nothing more than that. That bothers someone. What I must say, as far as the budget is concerned, is an attempt to overcome all these problems and this budget opens up a new chapter of our fiscal policy. He's real, as much as one colleague says, someone says he's real, someone says he's unrealistic. There's no embellishment here, and it's not going to surface what's been covered up for the public, so later it's coming out extremely naked. The income, the expenses, that's what we talked about. The expenditures are known to everyone, they can't hide, but we obviously failed on income. As MEP, I must point out that the proposed budget contains a social component and all solutions that are socially unacceptable have been eliminated. There is no fiscal consolidation, we stand firm behind it and we will always stand as a party, which will have elements of social injustice and endangering the position of people and the positions of groups living on the edge of existence. It is our duty and we will remain consistent until the end, when it comes to it. What we'll do a hundred times if we have to, that's also for the sake of these workers, I end up and bring my discussion to an end, that I believe only in partnership and that the only future of our country is in consensus between employers and their associations and workers and unions. So we can build a society on sound ground and in a healthy environment. In the end, I will conclude that our desire for reforms to be real, about which we will have a consensus and reach consensus. Thank you all for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26141	Thank you. I'm sure it can't come to that. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic. Thank you. I'm sure it can't come to that. The word has a National MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26143	Bozidar Djelic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26144	Thank you. In principle, I also said that I think it is very important when deciding who will be the enforcer responsible for the collection of money claims made on the basis of public and other services provided, to make sure that the executive procedure exists because of the executive trustee and the executive debtor, rather than because of the executioner. In that sense, I also support Mr. Neda Jovanovic's presentation. I think it is very important to find a way for the perpetrators responsible for handling these cases to be satisfied with the trustee's interest as quickly as possible, as cheaply as possible and as effectively as possible to collect their claim and, on the other hand, to guarantee to the executive debtor the basic rights in the enforcement process, the right to object and the right not to charge any more than any other dinar in the process unfoundedly. I still think that it is best to carry out the procedure for selecting perpetrators in these cases through public procurement procedures, because it is a matter of budget users, public and public-public enterprises, which in Serbia, mostly over 90%, provide these municipal and similar services, and that because we as citizens should not be involved in any way in the use of budget and money and because the Public Procurement Act is explicitly prescribed to provide legal services, including the services of the executioner, we must obtain in the procurement process, where offers are delivered and those most favourable to the bidder are guaranteed to obtain the job. Then it is entirely unfounded to introduce one system of edifices through these proposed changes and through the conduct of the Chamber of Executive. On the contrary, I think that those perpetrators who work faster, better quality, more efficient and should have more work to do and that in that sense, they should not be equated by force. But our obligation is to create equal and equal conditions for a transparent and fair match, in which each of them will submit their offer and recommend themselves in the best possible way to get a job, and if that offer is the most favourable, then that job should be won. In this regard, we remain in the position that the public procurement system for obtaining the service of the contractor is something that guarantees or at least leads to minimum potential corruption in selecting the perpetrators, but if the proposal was not accepted, we are fully in agreement with what counterpart Neđo Jovanovic proposed through his amendment. Thank you. Thank you. In principle, I also said that I think it is very important when deciding who will be the enforcer responsible for the collection of money claims made on the basis of public and other services provided, to make sure that the executive procedure exists because of the executive trustee and the executive debtor, rather than because of the executioner. In that sense, I also support Mr. Neda Jovanovic's presentation. I think it is very important to find a way for the perpetrators responsible for handling these cases to be satisfied with the trustee's interest as quickly as possible, as cheaply as possible and as effectively as possible to collect their claim and, on the other hand, to guarantee to the executive debtor the basic rights in the enforcement process, the right to object and the right not to charge any more than any other dinar in the process unfoundedly. I still think that it is best to carry out the procedure for selecting perpetrators in these cases through public procurement procedures, because it is a matter of budget users, public and public-public enterprises, which in Serbia, mostly over 90%, provide these municipal and similar services, and that because we as citizens should not be involved in any way in the use of budget and money and because the Public Procurement Act is explicitly prescribed to provide legal services, including the services of the executioner, we must obtain in the procurement process, where offers are delivered and those most favourable to the bidder are guaranteed to obtain the job. Then it is entirely unfounded to introduce one system of edifices through these proposed changes and through the conduct of the Chamber of Executive. On the contrary, I think that those perpetrators who work faster, better quality, more efficient and should have more work to do and that in that sense, they should not be equated by force. But our obligation is to create equal and equal conditions for a transparent and fair match, in which each of them will submit their offer and recommend themselves in the best possible way to get a job, and if that offer is the most favourable, then that job should be won. In this regard, we remain in the position that the public procurement system for obtaining the service of the contractor is something that guarantees or at least leads to minimum potential corruption in selecting the perpetrators, but if the proposal was not accepted, we are fully in agreement with what counterpart Neđo Jovanovic proposed through his amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26146	Thank you. I'm directly mentioned. We really don't intend to compromise here, but we just heard an attempt to charge the virus with a cure for the disease. What else is there when after the rule of Milosevic, Seselj, Nikolic, Vukic, Dacic, you find Serbia where the average salary is less than 50 euros? What is it with the virus when you find a country where the financial system doesn't work, where only very well connected people can get any credit at all. What else is the poorest country in Europe, which lost 67% of its GDP and 56% of its industrial production? What is it with the virus, when people go to the streets associated with organized crime, they kidnap certain people, their children? What else is it since you have cigarette smugglers who have 80% of the total market? What's it been since you've had a situation where there's almost all the oil in the hands of smugglers, who are then blackmailing, who are killing journalists? To this day, we don't know what your death warrants are. And opposition politicians and those who had to run for their own skin. Do we have to listen to lessons from these people today, in 2013, those who, after that, in public enterprises that attack here, are able to make further affairs? Who ruined Galenika? The 24 privatisations, it wasn't during the government of Zoran Djindjic, that was after. That's what you do. You do what you do today, Serbia, and you see us as a cure, and we will need our country's medicine again. That's what we're convinced of.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26147	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment. Thank you. The word has the People's MP Zoran Babic, according to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26149	The word has Minister Radulovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26150	Let's stop this idyll for a moment. I am a very happy and happy man when bridges between policies are continued, when they are created and bridged, and the differences that we most often promote and I really don't mind, I even think it's worth it when people who are on different sides of a scale called power and opposition find understanding and support certain amendments and legislative proposals. What I see as a bad argument is an argument for something like that. When the argument is such that you do not see colleagues in the National Assembly, so it is said - I do not see anyone from the SNS who could support such a thing, I do not think it has anything to do with the dioptria, and it has much more to do with political hatred, because they do not see the agility of the promoter, or the authorised representative of the promoter, which is the distinguished colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja, not to see Dragan Nikolic, Irena Aleksic, not all of the colleagues and colleagues who took part in the work during the morning session, I think it is very bad and that he speaks much more about who has said such attitudes. What conflicts with logic, and I am not a lawyer and I will not speak legally, but I will speak in a way that first explains things to myself, and then much easier and to people around me, is said in one sentence, when accepting this amendment from a fellow who is not here and for that reason I do not want to appoint him – this law is not applied, but there are people who abuse. How can something not be used to abuse? It doesn't make any sense to me. You either use it, so you abuse it or you don't use it. If you don't use something, you don't use it, how do you abuse it? You don't consume it, and you abuse it. Make arrangements if this law is not applicable, and I think it applies. That there was abuse, yes, and the proposer and the authorised representative of the motionor in the principle debate spoke very bravely about it. If we didn't want such anomalies to be solved, we wouldn't be giving this bill, we wouldn't try one law of three members of such an anomaly and prevent it. This law is generally a bad, parent law on enforcement and security. As a result, the Justice Ministry's working group has been working for 11 months on strong changes or on a new law on enforcement and security. This law is bad because the underlaws of the Ministry of Justice had to react, and since 1 September of this year, executioners have had the obligation of fiscal cash registers, i.e. a clear and precise tax determination that they have to pay. By motherly law, the basic law does not provide for such a thing. We can also talk about public procurement now, we can talk about other and different ways of solving and editing this area, but let's call things a real name. Dear citizens, I spoke in principle about it, and neither do I, I believe, and most of the colleagues sitting here in the hall, I believe that most Serbian citizens are not so happy about the perpetrators. Executors exist that there are commitments that do not settle down in a much uglier way. In the principle debate, I was talking about the reasons why citizens came into a situation not to carry out their duties. One reason was the storms that rolled the streets of Nis, but it was rolling through other cities, so the irresponsible politicians, who are not in this room today, told the citizens you don't have to pay the bills, put them in this barrel, that way you voted for that option and for that policy, and everything was settled. Of course, it wasn't settled, but people believed and didn't pay, so they came into a situation where the executioners knocked on their doorsteps and on their doorsteps. The second reason is because people in Serbia simply don't have money, they don't have what. They lost their jobs, the unfortunate, the robbery, the criminal privatisations. They lost their jobs, and they were promised 200,000 jobs. Four hundred thousand people between 2008-2012 were out of work. What makes these people pay their bills? Accounts, taxes, everything that's based on a country that's profiting from it, they just have to pay for both the rich and the poor, and for those who have and who don't. Until 2012, the blow was to the poorest. This is why only one company in Mark Miskovic has not even established a base, so we have established that base for a few months until old and now we are fighting through the administrative court, in those places on those channels that the state has to charge taxes. In six months from Luke Belgrade, more taxes have been charged than four years before. It's expensive. The perpetrators knocked on the door to the ordinary little ones, who had previously left the former regime without a job, and then sent them the perpetrators to knock on the door. He hasn't even established a tax base for the big ones. These are the anomalies we should talk about. The realms of the parent, the basic law, that solve these changes. Why have the perpetrators so far been chosen based on the trustees' headquarters? Why were the debts towards “Serbiagas, ” for example, only the perpetrators, 16 or 17, from Novi now? Why couldn't they have been from Vrbasa, let's say, your, Mr. Chairman, Vrnjak Banja, Subotica, Zaječar, Vranja? Why should you just charge and be responsible for the debts to “Srbigas”? Why did the perpetrators from Belgrade charge their obligations to Telecom, then come from Belgrade to Vrnjaka Banja, Mr Vujic, and then knock on the door of one of our neighbours there, have already made expenses? It's supposed to come from Belgrade. Who's gonna pay you? Debtor? Isn't it normal and natural, as this law regulates, that the trustee, or executioner, be from the territory where the debtor is. Smaller costs. I'm going to get in my car, it's going to be a mile, on foot, it's a small environment. Why does someone to Presevo leave Belgrade for a mobile phone operator? Wasn't there a basic reason and a basic essence of corruption that appeared in the home law, and then some who in the meantime became former in the state nomenclature became present as perpetrators? It's right at the source, where the headquarters of the biggest trustee companies are. We can talk about that too. I think that, as envisioned by the law, proposed by Mrs Pantic, the reduced costs of the executioner, thus reducing the burden on the debtors, those people who were left out of work, without income, who, unfortunately, had to owe. There are also those who believed Zoran Zivkovic, so they thought that everything was solved by putting an account in the barrels, and they only put their trust in the barrels that was gambled. This way, this law prevents possible abuses. As I said a few days ago, when we talked in principle, whoever has the knowledge that abuse was committed, no matter how loud or less the sound of that name was, please file a criminal report. We've got an alert law. We have a law that will protect people, who will say yes, there was corruption. We have it, finally, after how many years of announcements, but not political courage and political will to pass such a law. In this way, the SNS courageously marks a place where abuse can occur, courageously marks a place where that obligation and burden can be cheaper, more favourable, better, and we do so by this law. I accept the argument, as collegiate, as professional, as correct, Mr. Neda Jovanovic. I think this amendment is somewhat acceptable. In some parts, I disagree, but I am sure that these amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security will make this area much more transparent, much better. Not only the perpetrators from individual territories and from certain cities will be propagandad. What's an executor doing in Presevo? What's he gonna do? Is there a company headquarters, a company where he could work? No, I don't. At the Vranjska spa? To the King? In Priboy? Where? That's why those who have such a good connection and a career trail in the former justice ministry, and now the perpetrators, are going to swim so well on those laws they've made, to respect the law, to make good income. This law corrects it. That is why, of course, the SNS, as it boldly suggested, in the day of voting on this law, will vote. Thank you. Let's stop this idyll for a moment. I am a very happy and happy man when bridges between policies are continued, when they are created and bridged, and the differences that we most often promote and I really don't mind, I even think it's worth it when people who are on different sides of a scale called power and opposition find understanding and support certain amendments and legislative proposals. What I see as a bad argument is an argument for something like that. When the argument is such that you do not see colleagues in the National Assembly, so it is said - I do not see anyone from the SNS who could support such a thing, I do not think it has anything to do with the dioptria, and it has much more to do with political hatred, because they do not see the agility of the promoter, or the authorised representative of the promoter, which is the distinguished colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja, not to see Dragan Nikolic, Irena Aleksic, not all of the colleagues and colleagues who took part in the work during the morning session, I think it is very bad and that he speaks much more about who has said such attitudes. What conflicts with logic, and I am not a lawyer and I will not speak legally, but I will speak in a way that first explains things to myself, and then much easier and to people around me, is said in one sentence, when accepting this amendment from a fellow who is not here and for that reason I do not want to appoint him – this law is not applied, but there are people who abuse. How can something not be used to abuse? It doesn't make any sense to me. You either use it, so you abuse it or you don't use it. If you don't use something, you don't use it, how do you abuse it? You don't consume it, and you abuse it. Make arrangements if this law is not applicable, and I think it applies. That there was abuse, yes, and the proposer and the authorised representative of the motionor in the principle debate spoke very bravely about it. If we didn't want such anomalies to be solved, we wouldn't be giving this bill, we wouldn't try one law of three members of such an anomaly and prevent it. This law is generally a bad, parent law on enforcement and security. As a result, the Justice Ministry's working group has been working for 11 months on strong changes or on a new law on enforcement and security. This law is bad because the underlaws of the Ministry of Justice had to react, and since 1 September of this year, executioners have had the obligation of fiscal cash registers, i.e. a clear and precise tax determination that they have to pay. By motherly law, the basic law does not provide for such a thing. We can also talk about public procurement now, we can talk about other and different ways of solving and editing this area, but let's call things a real name. Dear citizens, I spoke in principle about it, and neither do I, I believe, and most of the colleagues sitting here in the hall, I believe that most Serbian citizens are not so happy about the perpetrators. Executors exist that there are commitments that do not settle down in a much uglier way. In the principle debate, I was talking about the reasons why citizens came into a situation not to carry out their duties. One reason was the storms that rolled the streets of Nis, but it was rolling through other cities, so the irresponsible politicians, who are not in this room today, told the citizens you don't have to pay the bills, put them in this barrel, that way you voted for that option and for that policy, and everything was settled. Of course, it wasn't settled, but people believed and didn't pay, so they came into a situation where the executioners knocked on their doorsteps and on their doorsteps. The second reason is because people in Serbia simply don't have money, they don't have what. They lost their jobs, the unfortunate, the robbery, the criminal privatisations. They lost their jobs, and they were promised 200,000 jobs. Four hundred thousand people between 2008-2012 were out of work. What makes these people pay their bills? Accounts, taxes, everything that's based on a country that's profiting from it, they just have to pay for both the rich and the poor, and for those who have and who don't. Until 2012, the blow was to the poorest. This is why only one company in Mark Miskovic has not even established a base, so we have established that base for a few months until old and now we are fighting through the administrative court, in those places on those channels that the state has to charge taxes. In six months from Luke Belgrade, more taxes have been charged than four years before. It's expensive. The perpetrators knocked on the door to the ordinary little ones, who had previously left the former regime without a job, and then sent them the perpetrators to knock on the door. He hasn't even established a tax base for the big ones. These are the anomalies we should talk about. The realms of the parent, the basic law, that solve these changes. Why have the perpetrators so far been chosen based on the trustees' headquarters? Why were the debts towards “Serbiagas, ” for example, only the perpetrators, 16 or 17, from Novi now? Why couldn't they have been from Vrbasa, let's say, your, Mr. Chairman, Vrnjak Banja, Subotica, Zaječar, Vranja? Why should you just charge and be responsible for the debts to “Srbigas”? Why did the perpetrators from Belgrade charge their obligations to Telecom, then come from Belgrade to Vrnjaka Banja, Mr Vujic, and then knock on the door of one of our neighbours there, have already made expenses? It's supposed to come from Belgrade. Who's gonna pay you? Debtor? Isn't it normal and natural, as this law regulates, that the trustee, or executioner, be from the territory where the debtor is. Smaller costs. I'm going to get in my car, it's going to be a mile, on foot, it's a small environment. Why does someone to Presevo leave Belgrade for a mobile phone operator? Wasn't there a basic reason and a basic essence of corruption that appeared in the home law, and then some who in the meantime became former in the state nomenclature became present as perpetrators? It's right at the source, where the headquarters of the biggest trustee companies are. We can talk about that too. I think that, as envisioned by the law, proposed by Mrs Pantic, the reduced costs of the executioner, thus reducing the burden on the debtors, those people who were left out of work, without income, who, unfortunately, had to owe. There are also those who believed Zoran Zivkovic, so they thought that everything was solved by putting an account in the barrels, and they only put their trust in the barrels that was gambled. This way, this law prevents possible abuses. As I said a few days ago, when we talked in principle, whoever has the knowledge that abuse was committed, no matter how loud or less the sound of that name was, please file a criminal report. We've got an alert law. We have a law that will protect people, who will say yes, there was corruption. We have it, finally, after how many years of announcements, but not political courage and political will to pass such a law. In this way, the SNS courageously marks a place where abuse can occur, courageously marks a place where that obligation and burden can be cheaper, more favourable, better, and we do so by this law. I accept the argument, as collegiate, as professional, as correct, Mr. Neda Jovanovic. I think this amendment is somewhat acceptable. In some parts, I disagree, but I am sure that these amendments and additions to the Law on Implementation and Security will make this area much more transparent, much better. Not only the perpetrators from individual territories and from certain cities will be propagandad. What's an executor doing in Presevo? What's he gonna do? Is there a company headquarters, a company where he could work? No, I don't. At the Vranjska spa? To the King? In Priboy? Where? That's why those who have such a good connection and a career trail in the former justice ministry, and now the perpetrators, are going to swim so well on those laws they've made, to respect the law, to make good income. This law corrects it. That is why, of course, the SNS, as it boldly suggested, in the day of voting on this law, will vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26152	There's only one thing I'd say about this. The fact that we had a catastrophic '90s, it's undeniable, that the state got into a lot of trouble. But that can't be an excuse for the policy we've been leading for the last ten years. The results we have today are extremely bad, and I think we should do a little bit of that. It is what depends on the change of that policy, the future of Serbian citizens, so we really need to talk about it, and that is the essence of the problem, the wrong economic policy that has brought us now into this extremely difficult situation.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26153	Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, I just wanted to give you my word, but... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica, is not according to the amendment. I really missed hearing you mention it, but if you say so, you have a word. Here you go. Thank you, Mr. Granny. (Zoran Zivkovic, from town: Replica. Mr. Zivkovic, I just wanted to give you my word, but... (Zoran Zivkovic, from the place: Replica, is not according to the amendment. I really missed hearing you mention it, but if you say so, you have a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26155	Verica Kalanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26156	There, we also have confirmation from the highest place that I've been mentioned. That really speaks of psychology. That throw when someone's not here. Of course, throwing lies, mentioned storms, is probably one of three, four stories that some MPs have learned through hard efforts. Three, four lies about me. One is that I invited people not to pay for electricity, so that's probably the topic. And invited them to throw electricity bills into the storms in the winter protests in 1996. Because of the public, of course, that's not true. That's when I called on the citizens not to pay a fee for the TV that was paid with the electricity bill. One of the first decisions, even the transitional government after 5 October, was the suspension of a TV subscription fee with an electricity bill. The tax was not implemented until 2004, therefore. My like-minded listeners listened to me, so today they don't pay that tax, nor did they pay it at the time when it was supposed to be mandatory. So I'm waiting for you to get caught up in chocolate or something and who's gonna mention that third lie I forgot? The fact that someone is sensitive to barrels, to the notion of barrels, to the shape of barrels because of their likely similarity to the same one, is not a topic for this parliament. There, we also have confirmation from the highest place that I've been mentioned. That really speaks of psychology. That throw when someone's not here. Of course, throwing lies, mentioned storms, is probably one of three, four stories that some MPs have learned through hard efforts. Three, four lies about me. One is that I invited people not to pay for electricity, so that's probably the topic. And invited them to throw electricity bills into the storms in the winter protests in 1996. Because of the public, of course, that's not true. That's when I called on the citizens not to pay a fee for the TV that was paid with the electricity bill. One of the first decisions, even the transitional government after 5 October, was the suspension of a TV subscription fee with an electricity bill. The tax was not implemented until 2004, therefore. My like-minded listeners listened to me, so today they don't pay that tax, nor did they pay it at the time when it was supposed to be mandatory. So I'm waiting for you to get caught up in chocolate or something and who's gonna mention that third lie I forgot? The fact that someone is sensitive to barrels, to the notion of barrels, to the shape of barrels because of their likely similarity to the same one, is not a topic for this parliament.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26158	I'm not going to do a roll-over in the past, even though I lived here in Serbia in the '90s, with two small children, and I worked in the first 5-years in the cold room for six months, and six were on hold. But I did answer to those who are insinuating on the political back, I guess, me or my loan party. For a year and a half, I was head of the Board of Directors of the Development Fund. I call upon those who today have both the judiciary and the police, and the secret and public services, to check my work and those who had the political back of the URS to get credit to the Development Fund. Of course, let them ask the rest of us, there were 11 of us, who unanimously approved loans to companies through the Development Fund. But the least I expect here is that someone is asking the question of how the Development Fund worked which, at the moment I was leaving, had a billion and 700 million non-plassed funds, which each year operates with a business profit that it pays in part into the budget, and does not ask how Galenika works, "The Paths of Serbia", "Serbia", "Serbiagas", "Dunav" insurance works. They need big salaries, so management doesn't go away, but that's why loans need political backs. Let's examine that political back. Let's see what the police do about these politicians who give and approve loans to businesses in Serbia without certain means of security. (President: Time. It's not a situation, fortunately, like that. This is just throwing dust in your eyes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26159	Mr. Zivkovic, please. I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly in your next address, when you speak to another MP, since you do not have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I never address the MP, it is forbidden. ) The MPs Vesna Martinović, Gordana Komic and Borislav Stefanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic. Mr. Zivkovic, please. I ask you to respect the dignity of the National Assembly in your next address, when you speak to another MP, since you do not have the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: I never address the MP, it is forbidden. ) The MPs Vesna Martinović, Gordana Komic and Borislav Stefanovic together submitted to the 1st amendment. The word has a folk MP, Vesna Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26161	Minister Radulovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26162	Have you been informed from the professional service that the amendment has been withdrawn? Have you been informed from the professional service that the amendment has been withdrawn?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26164	About the Development Fund, so that citizens don't get the wrong impression that the Development Fund was all right and then something happened. The Development Fund is badly managed. I'm not talking about the '90s and after that, I can only talk about these years that really have something to do with this today. A large number of loans in the Development Fund are non-refundable, i.e. there are payment problems. It's 60% in big problems, an additional 20% in additional problems. You can't have an institution with 60 employees who run 20,000 credit parties. That's impossible. So we had one system that untransparently, selectively allocated money, which only went to certain people, and it just can't. We have to leave it. We need a healthy system available to all citizens of Serbia. We need to remove everything that's wrong and that's sick. There's a lot of it. We'd like to do it overnight, but let's get a problem. I think if we keep going at that pace and if we're responsible, we talk about facts and solve problems, we're going to face problems, I think we're going to make it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26165	I'm sorry, Mrs. Martinovic, I just received a notice that you have withdrawn the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. It's all right. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac, together submitted the first amendment. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic. I'm sorry, Mrs. Martinovic, I just received a notice that you have withdrawn the amendment to Article 1. It's a bill of law. It's all right. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac, together submitted the first amendment. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Malovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26167	He has the word Dejan Radenkovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26168	Dear Chairman, we have submitted this amendment for reasons and wishes that we wanted to specify the current text of the Amendments and Supplements Act. We suggested that in Article 1. The draft law, in paragraph 4, instead of the words – if it does not provide proof that the Chamber has not responded within the prescribed time limit, replace it with the words – if the Executive Trustee does not provide proof that he has sent the request to the Chamber in the event that the Chamber has not delivered the reply within the prescribed time limit. We consider the proposed amendment to be a more precise regulation of the situation when the Chamber fails to respond to the Executive Trustee's request for an enforcement. According to the solution offered by the motionor, we conclude that the executive trustee should prove that the Chamber did not do anything, so that the executioner would even consider the proposal continues to act. As the right negative facts are not proved, it is necessary to define this part differently, and to provide that where the Chamber fails to provide a reply to the request that it is sufficient for the Executive Trustee to provide evidence that it has sent such a request to the Chamber and that it can therefore exercise its rights in the enforcement procedure. Dear Chairman, we have submitted this amendment for reasons and wishes that we wanted to specify the current text of the Amendments and Supplements Act. We suggested that in Article 1. The draft law, in paragraph 4, instead of the words – if it does not provide proof that the Chamber has not responded within the prescribed time limit, replace it with the words – if the Executive Trustee does not provide proof that he has sent the request to the Chamber in the event that the Chamber has not delivered the reply within the prescribed time limit. We consider the proposed amendment to be a more precise regulation of the situation when the Chamber fails to respond to the Executive Trustee's request for an enforcement. According to the solution offered by the motionor, we conclude that the executive trustee should prove that the Chamber did not do anything, so that the executioner would even consider the proposal continues to act. As the right negative facts are not proved, it is necessary to define this part differently, and to provide that where the Chamber fails to provide a reply to the request that it is sufficient for the Executive Trustee to provide evidence that it has sent such a request to the Chamber and that it can therefore exercise its rights in the enforcement procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26170	Thank you, Vice President. I've been looking for a replica right now, and now I'm supposed to have two minutes at a time, but you're not gonna let me do it. I also asked for a replica when I discussed and spoke on behalf of the SPS, and I did not expect that those in many texts would react differently, recorded in many books as undertakers of the Serbian economy and Serbian banking and everything that was right in this country. I can only ask my distinguished colleague about the company she mentioned - and why is it in a worse situation today than in the '90s, if we want to go so far? What was wrong with that when you were able to sell out everything that wasn't right? So you spent more of that money to resubsidize these dissatisfied workers, to get them back to work and to pay these 120 companies and some companies that are in restructuring and all at the expense of the state. I can only say - one non-domestic business. For what reason? What's with the anxiety? I say, expert, well, here you go. Recognised in Europe. Why isn't he there to help some other countries as he came to help Serbia? Let him go, not sit here, distract us and tell us fairy tales. Here, let's get him out in front of the workers, let's go together and let's go out in front of these workers. Here, buddy, you want to go out front together? Let's see who they hate more, you or me? You. You ruined them. You've ruined everything that works in this country. You're a undertaker. You.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26171	Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić. Thank you. The word has a folk ambassador, Dr. Darko Laketić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26173	The word is Sasa Milenić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26174	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I propose that this amendment to Article 1(4) is not adopted because I believe that the proposed formulation already given in the amendments to the law is clear and decadent and clearly stated, I quote - if it does not provide proof that the Chamber has not responded within the prescribed time limit and refers to the Executive Trustee, thus obtaining information on the basis of which the Executive Director is obliged to reject the proposal for enforcement. I think it's all clear here, and I find the proposal too high. Dear President, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, I propose that this amendment to Article 1(4) is not adopted because I believe that the proposed formulation already given in the amendments to the law is clear and decadent and clearly stated, I quote - if it does not provide proof that the Chamber has not responded within the prescribed time limit and refers to the Executive Trustee, thus obtaining information on the basis of which the Executive Director is obliged to reject the proposal for enforcement. I think it's all clear here, and I find the proposal too high.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26176	On the basis of article 107 and the use of qualifications not only of the People's MP but also of the discussion of the highest representative of the Government of Serbia, we heard today that democratic changes in Serbia were the cause of the country's economic downturn, and that in the 80s and 90s, against which the people rose by revolutionary means, were the years of economic boom to which this government would bring us back. We demand irrevocable apology for offensive discriminatory messages, offensive to the intelligence and self-respect of the nation. Otherwise, I will initiate the departure of parliament in which the 1990s are declared from the government's position age-old targets and expansions that we seek.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26177	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by National MP Snezana Malovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 18 December 2014 starting at 13:30 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda points of the 10th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I thank the MPs for their participation in the work. [[The session was suspended at 10.45 hours]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26178	The honourable MPs before we move on to a decision need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 137 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the need for the Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the proposal for a law on insurance in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – two MPs, of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 55, which was jointly submitted by the MPs: Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the amendment bill, MPs: Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention – 153 MPs, out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26179	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by National MP Snezana Malovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Since we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Since the National Assembly has completed the debate on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 87(5) of the Rules of Procedure, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby appoint Thursday 18 December 2014 starting at 13:30 p.m. as the day for voting on the agenda points of the 10th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. I thank the MPs for their participation in the work. [[The session was suspended at 10.45 hours]]
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26180	The honourable MPs before we move on to a decision need to determine the quorum. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly provide that the quorum for the work of the Assembly in the voting day exists if most of the total number of MPs is present at the session. I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 137 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the need for the Assembly to pass laws and other acts in the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the proposal for a law on insurance in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 150, against – three abstentions – there is no, no vote – two MPs, of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Before we move on to the amendment decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 55, which was jointly submitted by the MPs: Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Under the name of the amendment bill, MPs: Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who has abstention – 153 MPs, out of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above Articles 1 and 1 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26181	Thank you. The word is Sasa Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26182	I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted - 150 MPs, out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted – 149 MPs, of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members and Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted - 152 MPs, of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for four, no one who is present, no one who has voted, 152 MPs, of the total 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – 158 MPs, out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members of the 4th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – 158 MPs, out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members of the 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted – 156 MPs, of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were appointed by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 160 MPs, of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: You must read the whole decision, as they voted. Mr. Sutanovac, since you made a complaint to Mr. Zivkovic... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "I"? ) You suggested not to read the finding of whether the National Bank and the Finance Committee and the rest of the opinions... It's just that we're not obliged as chairman to read each time. If you find in the Rules of Procedure that we are, please deliver that remark to us. That's what the debate said. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zivkovic, if you knew the Rules of Procedure, you'd know you don't have a word right now. In the course of the vote, no one can get a word or be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted – 156 MPs of the people who are present, among the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Just more information that all MPs, the heads of Parliament's groups have this material in front of them and can interpret whether, if they have forgotten, they have accepted the amendment or refused and what opinion the National Bank has given. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 10th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 11 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added after Article 11, is the name of the member and Article 11a was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 154 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 15th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 16 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 18th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 155 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 19th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name of the member and the Article 20th amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićev. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 2, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 23rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 25th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 157 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 26 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 156 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 27 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name section, the name of the member and member of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 158 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 4, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 31st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted with 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 33rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 34th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 35th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 36th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 37th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 38th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 41st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 5, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 43rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 44th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 45th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 46th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 47th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 48th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 6, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 51st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 52nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 53rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – 157 of the total attendance of the 161 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 54th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 56th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 57th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 58th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 59th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 60th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 61st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 62nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 63rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 64th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 65th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 7, the name Section, the name of the member and member of the 66th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 67th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 68th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 69th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 8, the name Section, the name of the member and member of the 70th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 71st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 72nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 159 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 73rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 74th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 75th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 76th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 77th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 78th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 79th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 80th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 9, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 81th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the head, the name of the member and member of the 82nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 83rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 84th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the name of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name of the member and the article 85th amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 86th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 87th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 88th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 89th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 90th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 91st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 92nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - none, abstentioned - one, did not vote 159 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 93rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 94th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 95th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 95th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 96th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name section, the name of the member and member of the 97th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 98th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 99th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 100th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 101st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – none, with abstention – one, voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 102 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 103rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 104 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 105th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 106th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 107th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 108th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name Section, the name above the member and member of the 109th amendment, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 110th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 111 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 112 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 113rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter V, the name of the head, Section 1, the name section, the name above the members and Article 114 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 115th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 116 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 117 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 118th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 119th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 120th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 120th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 121st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 122 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 123rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 124th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 125th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 125th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 126 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 126th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 127th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 128th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 129th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 130th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name section and the name above the member and Article 131 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 131st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 132 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 133th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 134 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 135th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 136th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 137 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 4, the name section, the name above the members and Article 138 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 139th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 140th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 141st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 142 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 143rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 144 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 145th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 146 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VI, the name of the head, Section 1, the name above the members and Article 147 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name above the members and member of the 148th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 149th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 150th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name above the member and member of the 151st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 151. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 152 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 153rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 4, the name above the members and Article 154 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 155th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz to article 155. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 156 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 157 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 158th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 159th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 160th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 5, the name section, the name above the member and Article 161 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 161st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 162 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 163rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 164 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 165th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 166 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 167 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 168th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 169 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 170th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 171st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 172 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 173rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above members and Article 174. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VII, the name of the head, the name above the members and the article 175th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 176 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VIII, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 177 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 178th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 179th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 180th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 181st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On chapter IX, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 182 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 183rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 184th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 185th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 186 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter X, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name above the members and Article 187 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 188th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 189th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 190th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 191st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 192 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 193th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, had voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 194 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 195th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 196 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 2, the name section, the name above the member and Article 197 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total attendance of the 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 198th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 199th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 200th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 201 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and Article 202 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 203rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz to Article 203. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 204 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 205th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 206 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 207 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 208th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 209th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 210th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 211 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 212 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 213th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 214 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 215th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 216 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 217 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 3, the name above the members and member of the 218th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 219th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstention – one, has voted 147 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XI, the title of the head, the name above the member and the Member of the 220th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 221st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XII, the name above the members and Article 222 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, had voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 223rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 224 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 225th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 226 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On chapter XIII, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 227 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 228th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 229th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 230th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 231st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 152 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XIV, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name above the member and Article 232 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 152 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 232 by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 233rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 234 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 235th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 236 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 237 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name section and the name above the member and Article 238 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 239th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 240th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 241st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 242 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 243rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 244 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 245th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 246 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 247 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 248th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 249th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 250th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 251st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 252 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 253rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 254 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 255th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XV, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name above the members and Article 256 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 257 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 258th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name section, the name above the member and member of the 259th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 260th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 261st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 262 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 263rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name section, the name above the member and Article 264 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 265th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 266 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Glav XVI, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 267 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 268th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 269th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 270th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 271st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 272 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 273rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 274 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 275th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 276 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 277 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 278, together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 279th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 280th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 281st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted - 150 MPs, out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted – 149 MPs, of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members and Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one, who is abstentioned, who has not voted - 152 MPs, of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 2 of the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote, and I declare that there is no one who is abstentioned, for four, no one who is present, no one who has voted, 152 MPs, of the total 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members of the 3rd amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – 158 MPs, out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members of the 4th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one against the abstentions – 158 MPs, out of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The name above the members of the 5th amendment was submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted – 156 MPs, of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 6th Amendment were appointed by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, has voted – 160 MPs, of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: You must read the whole decision, as they voted. Mr. Sutanovac, since you made a complaint to Mr. Zivkovic... (Dear Shutanovac, from the place: "I"? ) You suggested not to read the finding of whether the National Bank and the Finance Committee and the rest of the opinions... It's just that we're not obliged as chairman to read each time. If you find in the Rules of Procedure that we are, please deliver that remark to us. That's what the debate said. (Zoran Zivkovic, from the post: Rules of Procedure. Mr. Zivkovic, if you knew the Rules of Procedure, you'd know you don't have a word right now. In the course of the vote, no one can get a word or be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one, three, against the abstentions, who has not voted – 156 MPs of the people who are present, among the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Just more information that all MPs, the heads of Parliament's groups have this material in front of them and can interpret whether, if they have forgotten, they have accepted the amendment or refused and what opinion the National Bank has given. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 8 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 10th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 11 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment, which was added after Article 11, is the name of the member and Article 11a was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – none of the abstentions – there was no vote of 154 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 14 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – five, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 152 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 15th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 15th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 16 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 18th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 155 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 19th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name of the member and the Article 20th amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavićev. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 2, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 23rd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 25th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 157 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 26 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 156 of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 27 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 27th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bosnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name section, the name of the member and member of the 28th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 158 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 4, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 31st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted with 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korac, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 33rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 156 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 34th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic – Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 34th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 35th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 36th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 37th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 38th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 41st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 5, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 42nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 43rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 44th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 45th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 46th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 47th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 48th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 6, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 50th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 51st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 52nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – six, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 151 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 53rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that there is no one with abstentions for – four against – 157 of the total attendance of the 161 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 54th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 56th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted to the 56th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 57th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 58th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 59th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 60th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – eight, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 61st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 62nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 62nd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - three, against - none, with abstentions, did not vote 156 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Milorad Mijatović, Prof. Dr. Branko Đurović, Milena Bicanin, Dr. Ivan Bauer, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinković, Prof. Dr. Vesna Besarović, Dr. Muamer Bačevac, Meko Omerović, Branka Bošnjak and Ljiljana Nestorović, together submitted the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—seven, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 63rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 64th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 65th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 7, the name Section, the name of the member and member of the 66th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 67th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 68th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 69th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 8, the name Section, the name of the member and member of the 70th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 71st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 72nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, has voted 159 of the 162 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 73rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 74th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 75th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 76th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 77th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 78th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 79th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 80th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 9, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 81th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 out of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the head, the name of the member and member of the 82nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 83rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 84th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 84th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the name of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name of the member and the article 85th amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 86th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 87th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 88th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 89th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 90th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 91st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 92nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - one, against - none, abstentioned - one, did not vote 159 of the total presence of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 93rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 94th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 95th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 161 out of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi submitted to the 95th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 161 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 96th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name section, the name of the member and member of the 97th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 98th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 99th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 100th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 101st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – none, with abstention – one, voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 102 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 103rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 104 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 105th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 106th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 107th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 108th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name Section, the name above the member and member of the 109th amendment, was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 110th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 111 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 112 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 113rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter V, the name of the head, Section 1, the name section, the name above the members and Article 114 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 115th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 116 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 116th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 117 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 118th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 119th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 120th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 120th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 121st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 122 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 123rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name of the section, the name of the member and member of the 124th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 125th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 125th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 126 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 126th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 127th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 128th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 129th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 130th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name section and the name above the member and Article 131 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 131st Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Goran Ciric and Mr Aleksandra Jerkov. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 132 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 133th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 134 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 135th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 136th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 137 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 4, the name section, the name above the members and Article 138 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 139th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 140th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 141st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 142 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 143rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 144 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 145th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 146 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VI, the name of the head, Section 1, the name above the members and Article 147 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name above the members and member of the 148th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 149th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 150th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name above the member and member of the 151st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted the amendment to Article 151. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 152 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 153rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 4, the name above the members and Article 154 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 155th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz to article 155. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 156 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 157 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 158th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 159th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 160th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 5, the name section, the name above the member and Article 161 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 161st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 162 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 163rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 164 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 165th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 166 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 167 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 168th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 169 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 170th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 171st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 172 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 152 of the total of the 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 173rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above members and Article 174. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted for 153 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VII, the name of the head, the name above the members and the article 175th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 176 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VIII, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 177 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 178th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 179th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 180th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 181st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On chapter IX, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 182 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 183rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 184th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 185th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 186 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter X, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name above the members and Article 187 of the amendment were submitted jointly by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 188th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 189th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 190th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 191st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 192 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 193th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, had voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 194 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 195th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 148 of the total of the 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 196 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 2, the name section, the name above the member and Article 197 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total attendance of the 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 198th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 149 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 199th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 200th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 201 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and Article 202 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 203rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Mirko Chikiriz to Article 203. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 148 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 204 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 205th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 206 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 207 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 208th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 209th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 210th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 211 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 212 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 213th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 214 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 215th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 216 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 217 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 3, the name above the members and member of the 218th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 219th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstention – one, has voted 147 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XI, the title of the head, the name above the member and the Member of the 220th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 221st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XII, the name above the members and Article 222 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, had voted 147 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 223rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 224 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 225th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 149 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 226 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On chapter XIII, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 227 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 228th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 151 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 229th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 230th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total attendance of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 231st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 152 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XIV, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name above the member and Article 232 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 152 of the 153 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted to Article 232 by MP Mirko Chikiriz. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 233rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 234 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 235th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 236 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 151 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 237 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name section and the name above the member and Article 238 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 239th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 150 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 240th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 241st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 242 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 243rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 244 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 245th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 246 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 247 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 248th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 249th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 250th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 251st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 252 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 253rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 254 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 255th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter XV, the title of the head, Section 1, the name of the section, the name above the members and Article 256 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 257 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 258th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 2, the name section, the name above the member and member of the 259th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 260th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 261st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 262 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 263rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section 3, the name section, the name above the member and Article 264 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 265th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 266 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Glav XVI, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 267 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 268th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 269th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 270th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 271st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 272 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 273rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted in 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 274 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 275th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 276 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted in 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 277 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above members and Article 278, together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 279th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 280th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 281st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26184	Of course that's not said. The catastrophes were in the '90s, but we can't use the '90s forever as an obstacle to the mistakes we've made in the last 10 years. So we still have to be responsible, in the '90s is our history, what happened to us happened to us, was very difficult, disastrous for Serbia, but in the last 10 years we've been running a really bad economic policy that then produced this state that we have today and that we need to treat. In order for us to move forward, we need to first see what's wrong with that policy that's been going on for the last ten years and make changes. We did it, we made changes, we have a new economic policy and we expect results from that policy. No more than that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26185	After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the insurance bill, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 19 of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on insurance. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF PATITUAL SERVICES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill on payment services in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 221 submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of public spending. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the part of the first, introductory provision, the name above the members and Article 1 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 6 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the second part, the name of the second part, Glava I, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 8 of the amendment, together were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 10th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 11 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the title of the section, the name above the member and Article 14 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 15th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 2, the name above the member and Article 16 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 18th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 19th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 142 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 142 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 25th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 3, the name above the members and Article 26 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting a vote on the insurance bill, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 137 against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 19 of the 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on insurance. We move to item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF PATITUAL SERVICES After the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to decision-making. I'm putting the bill on payment services in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 144 against – three abstentions – there is no vote, 14 of the total attendance of 161 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. Before we move to a decision on amendments, I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 221 submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic Budget and the control of public spending. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. On the part of the first, introductory provision, the name above the members and Article 1 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 2 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 158 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 3 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 4 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 5 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 out of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 6 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 7 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the second part, the name of the second part, Glava I, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 8 of the amendment, together were submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 9 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 10th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 152 of the 153 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 11 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 12 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 149 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 13 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the title of the section, the name above the member and Article 14 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 15th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 2, the name above the member and Article 16 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 148 of the total of 149 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 17 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 18th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 19th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo submitted to the 19th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 20 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 21 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 22 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 144 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 23 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 142 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 24 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 142 of the total of 143 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 25th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 3, the name above the members and Article 26 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26187	The word has Verica Kalanovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26188	I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 27 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of section 4 and Article 30 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 5, the name above the members and Article 31 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 140 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the head, title of section 1, the name above the member and Article 33 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 34th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 35th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 36th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 37th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 38th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 142 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 142 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 41st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 42nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 43rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 44th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 45th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 46th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 2, the name above the member and member of the 47th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 48th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 49th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 139 of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 3, the name above the member and member of the 50th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 138 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 51st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 139 of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 139 of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 53rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 54th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 56th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 142 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 57th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 142 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 58th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 144 of the total of the 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 59th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 60th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 61st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 62nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 63rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 4, the name above the members and the 64th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 65th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 66th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 67th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the name of the head, the name above the members and the 68th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 69th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 70th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 71st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 72nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 73rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the title above the members and Article 71 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter V, the name of the head, the name above the member and the article of the 74th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – one, 144 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic I am putting the amendments to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, abstention – there is no, 144 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 75th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VI, the title of section 1, the name above the member and Article 76 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 77th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 78th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 79th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 80th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 81st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 81st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 2, the name above the members and the article 82th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 83rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 84th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 85th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 86th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 87th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 3, the name above the members and members of the 88th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 89th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić and Aleksandar Senic together have submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which they propose to add a new membership name and a new member of 89 after article 89. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 90th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 91st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 91st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 92nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 93rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 94th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 95th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 96th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 97th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 98th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 99th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 100th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 4, the name above the member and member of the 101st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 152 of the total of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 102 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 103rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 104 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 5, the name above the members and member of the 105th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part Three, the name of Part Three, Chapter I, the name above the member and Article 106 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 107th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 108th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 109th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 110th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 111 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 112 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 113rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the title of the section, the name above the member and Article 114 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 115th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 116 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 117 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section II, the name above the members and members of the 118th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 151 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 119th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 120th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 151 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 121st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 122 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 123rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 124th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 125th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total attendance of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 126 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total attendance of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic, together submitted to Article 126. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 3, the name above the member and member of the 127th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 128th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 4, the name above the member and member of the 129th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 130th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 131st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 132 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 151 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 133th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 134 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 135th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 136th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 137 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 138th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 5, the name above the members and member of the 139th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total attendance of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the fourth part, the name of Part Four, Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 140 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 141st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 155 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 142 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 143rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 144 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 145th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 146 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 147 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 148th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 149th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 150 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 151st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 152 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 153rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 154 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 155th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 156 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 157 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 158th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 159th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 160th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 161st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 162 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 163rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 164 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 165th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 166 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 167 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 168th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 169 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 170th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 171st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 172 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part Five, the name of Part Five, Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above the member and the article 173. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above members and Article 174. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 175th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 176 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 177 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 178th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 179th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 180th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 181st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 182 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the head, the name above the member and member of the 183rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 184th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 185th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 186 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 187 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 188th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 189th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 190th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 191st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At Part Six, the name of the sixth part, the name above the member and Article 192 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 193th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 194 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 195th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 196 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 197 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 198th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 199th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 200th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 201 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and Article 202 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 203rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 204 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 205th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 206 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 207 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 208th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 209th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 210th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 211 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 212 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 213th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At part seven, the title of Part Seven, Chapter I, the title of the head, the name above the members and Article 214 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 215th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 216 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 217 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 218 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 219th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 220th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In part 8, the title of the eighth part, the name above the member and member of the 221st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic to Article 221. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 222 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 223rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 162 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 224 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 162 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 225th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 226 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – one, voted 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 227 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 228th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 229th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 230th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 231st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 232 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 143 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 27 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 29 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names of section 4 and Article 30 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 5, the name above the members and Article 31 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 140 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Ivan Jovanovic submitted to the 31st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 32nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the head, title of section 1, the name above the member and Article 33 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 34th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 35th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 36th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 37th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 38th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 39th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 142 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 40th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 142 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 41st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 41st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 42nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 43rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 44th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 45th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 46th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 140 of the total attendance of 142 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 2, the name above the member and member of the 47th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 48th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, the abstentioned – has voted 139 of the total attendance of 141 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 49th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 139 of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 3, the name above the member and member of the 50th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 138 of the 140 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 51st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 139 of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 139 of the total of 141 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 53rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 54th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 55th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one with abstention – has voted 141 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 56th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 142 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 57th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 142 of the total of 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 58th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 144 of the total of the 144 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 59th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 60th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 61st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 143 of the total of 145 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 62nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 63rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 4, the name above the members and the 64th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 65th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 66th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 67th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the name of the head, the name above the members and the 68th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 69th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 70th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 71st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 72nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 73rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic submitted to the title above the members and Article 71 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter V, the name of the head, the name above the member and the article of the 74th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – one, abstention – one, 144 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 74th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic I am putting the amendments to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, abstention – there is no, 144 of the total of 147 MPs present did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 75th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter VI, the title of section 1, the name above the member and Article 76 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 77th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 78th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 147 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 79th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 80th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 80th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 81st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 81st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 144 of the total of 146 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of Section 2, the name above the members and the article 82th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 146 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 83rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 84th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 145 of the total of 147 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 85th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 86th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 87th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 3, the name above the members and members of the 88th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 148 of the 150 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 89th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the 151 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidić and Aleksandar Senic together have submitted an amendment, with an amendment, which they propose to add a new membership name and a new member of 89 after article 89. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 90th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 91st Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic submitted to the 91st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 92nd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 93rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 150 of the total presence of 152 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 94th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 153 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 95th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 96th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 97th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 98th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 99th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 100th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 152 of the total attendance of 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 4, the name above the member and member of the 101st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 152 of the total of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 102 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 103rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 104 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On section 5, the name above the members and member of the 105th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part Three, the name of Part Three, Chapter I, the name above the member and Article 106 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 107th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 108th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 109th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 110th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 111 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 112 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 113rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the title of the section, the name above the member and Article 114 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 115th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 116 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 117 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 151 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Section II, the name above the members and members of the 118th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 151 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 119th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 150 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 120th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 151 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 121st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 122 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 123rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 124th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 125th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total attendance of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 126 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 154 of the total attendance of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Biljana Hasanovic Korać, Branka Karavidic and Aleksandar Senic, together submitted to Article 126. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 151 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 3, the name above the member and member of the 127th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The names above the members and members of the 128th amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 4, the name above the member and member of the 129th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 154 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 130th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 131st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 132 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – three abstentions – there is no vote of 151 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 133th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 134 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 154 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 135th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 136th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 137 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—two, against—no one, abstentioned—one, voted 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 138th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of section 5, the name above the members and member of the 139th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, voted 155 of the total attendance of 157 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On the fourth part, the name of Part Four, Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 140 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 141st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – two, voted 155 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 142 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 143rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 144 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 152 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 145th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 153 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 146 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 153 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 147 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 148th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 149th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 152 of the total of 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 150 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – voted 151 of the total of 152 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 151st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 154 of the 154 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 152 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 153rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions has voted 155 of the 155 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 154 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 155th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one against the abstentions voted 156 out of the 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter III, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 156 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 157 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 158th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 159th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 160th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and members of the 161st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 162 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 163rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 164 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 165th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 154 of the total of 156 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter IV, the title of the head, the name above the member and Article 166 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 167 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 168th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 169 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 170th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 171st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstentioned – one, did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 172 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Part Five, the name of Part Five, Chapter I, the name of the head, the name above the member and the article 173. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above members and Article 174. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 175th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 176 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted their name above the members and Article 177 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 178th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 179th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 180th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 181st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 182 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the head, the name above the member and member of the 183rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and of the 184th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 185th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 186 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 187 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 157 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 188th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 189th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 156 out of the 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 190th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions – has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 191st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At Part Six, the name of the sixth part, the name above the member and Article 192 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 193th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 194 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 195th Amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 196 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 197 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 198th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 199th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 200th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 201 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 155 of the total of 157 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of members and Article 202 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 203rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 156 of the total of the 158 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 204 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 205th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 157 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 206 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 207 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 208th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 209th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 158 of the total of 159 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 210th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 211 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: no one, against – none, with abstention – voted 160 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 212 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 213th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – voted 159 of the 160 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. At part seven, the title of Part Seven, Chapter I, the title of the head, the name above the members and Article 214 of the amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 215th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 216 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 217 of the amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against them, has voted 162 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Chapter II, the name of the head, the name above the member and Article 218 of the amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, abstentioned – one, voted 160 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 219th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 161 of the 162 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 220th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162 of the 163 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In part 8, the title of the eighth part, the name above the member and member of the 221st amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – has voted 162 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was submitted by MP Ivan Karic to Article 221. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 160 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 222 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 161 of the 164 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 223rd amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none, abstention – one, did not vote 162 of the 164 MPs present in total. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 224 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, with abstention – did not vote 162 of the total of 165 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 225th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstention – voted 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 226 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, with abstention – one, voted 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Both MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted the title above the members and Article 227 of the amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 228th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that no one, against the abstentions, voted 166 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 229th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 230th amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic together submitted. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the members and members of the 231st amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On behalf of the above members and Article 232 of the amendment, MPs Zoran Zivkovic and Vladimir Pavicevic submitted together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26190	My replica refers to what Minister Radulovic said and what is completely false, which is that 60% or already, I forgot, the percentage of credit that the Development Fund has defined for small and medium-sized enterprises is private, which is its basic activity, inexplicable. That's just not true. For the sake of truth and for the sake of the citizens of Serbia, we must tell what is true. It is true that the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Fund defines loans with sound guarantees and that the charge is better than the charge from the business banks, but it is also true that the Development Fund defines at the conclusion of the Government of the so-called ‘Government Fund’. subsidies called credit support to failed enterprises, restructured companies, whose charging capacity is very low and at a small percentage. That's true. If not, the Development Fund would have failed long ago, it would have been a fund that fell apart as "Agrobank", as "Vojvodine Development Bank", as "The Business Bank of Belgrade". That way, he would fall apart and not pay the profits in the Republic of Serbia's budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26191	The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 164 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on payment services in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – four abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on payment services. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – four abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the 168 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against –no one, with abstention – there is no vote, 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 165 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that – 158, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, six of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, five of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, five of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 1 submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 165 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halima and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – three abstentions – there are no votes, two of the total of 167 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac, together submitted the first amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, abstentioned – one, voted four of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – the list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Enlightenment Council. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Educational Council, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I also remind you that there are two candidates on the list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Educational Council and that you can only vote for one candidate. I am voting on the proposal of the University of Novi Sad to elect Professor Rade Doroslovaki as a member of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Dr. The work of Doroslovaki for a member of the National Educational Council. I am voting on the proposal of the University of Novi Sad to elect Professor Mirjana Segedinac as a member of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Professor Dr. Mirjana Segedinac as a member of the National Educational Council. Let me congratulate Professor Radet Doroslovaki of his election as a member of the National Educational Council on your behalf and wish him much success in his work. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 16 December 2014, at 13 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to the injuries of members 107 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against - one, with abstentions – there is no vote, 148 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 16 December 2014, at 13 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 17 December 2014, at 10 o'clock and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against - one, with abstentions – there is no, there was no 140 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 17 December 2014, at 15 hours and 29 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - one, abstention - there is no vote, 134 of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. (The session is closed at 5:30 p.m. ) The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Ivan Jovanovic and Borislav Stefanovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 164 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Olena Papuga, Nada Lazic, Djordje Stojsic and Mr Dejan Capo. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill on payment services in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 156, against – four abstentions – there are no votes, eight of the 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on payment services. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 157 against – four abstentions – there are no votes, seven of the 168 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. Since the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle, we move to a decision on amendments. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against –no one, with abstention – there is no vote, 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – two, abstentions – there is no vote, 163 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – none of the abstentions – did not vote 165 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 11th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 14th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 18th Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 19th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that for – four, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 26th Amendment, with a correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Jovan Markovic and Dejan Nikolic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac together submitted the 28th amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 28th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halimi and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 29th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 31st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 35th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 36th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – one, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 166 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Jovan Markovic, Balša Bozovic and Dragan Sutanovac submitted the amendment together. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services, in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare that – 158, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, six of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act, as a whole. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, five of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Foreign Exchange Act. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 160, against – three abstentions – there are no votes, five of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the bill has become an amendment to Article 1 submitted by the MP, Prof. Dr. Nebojsa Petrovic. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. Members of the 1st Amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 165 of the total of 169 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dr Sulejman Ugljanin, Sabina Dazdarevic, Enis Imamovic, Riza Halima and Shaip Kamberi. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Sutanovac, Borislav Stefanovic, Gordana Comic, Dejan Nikolic and Balša Bozovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 162 against – three abstentions – there are no votes, two of the total of 167 MPs present have not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security in principle. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, with abstentions, voted six out of the 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The First Amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Homen. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – none, the abstentioned – did not vote 164 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – one, with abstention – there is no vote of 163 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Nedjo Jovanovic submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 16, no one, with abstentions, voted 151 of the total of 167 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MPs Marko Djurisic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović and Biljana Hasanovic Korac, together submitted the first amendment. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Snezana Malovic. I'm putting the amendment to vote. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – three, against – no one, with abstentions, has voted 165 of the total of 168 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 161 versus – no one, abstentioned – one, voted four of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and security. We move to the 7th item of the agenda – the list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Enlightenment Council. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search on a list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Educational Council, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority with the majority of the votes of all MPs. I also remind you that there are two candidates on the list of candidates for the selection of one member of the National Educational Council and that you can only vote for one candidate. I am voting on the proposal of the University of Novi Sad to elect Professor Rade Doroslovaki as a member of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 154, no one, with abstentions, voted 12 of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Professor Dr. The work of Doroslovaki for a member of the National Educational Council. I am voting on the proposal of the University of Novi Sad to elect Professor Mirjana Segedinac as a member of the National Educational Council. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for—five, against—no one, with abstentions, has voted 157 of the total attendance of 162 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not select Professor Dr. Mirjana Segedinac as a member of the National Educational Council. Let me congratulate Professor Radet Doroslovaki of his election as a member of the National Educational Council on your behalf and wish him much success in his work. On the occasion of the apportionment of the Members of the People's Parliament to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I remind you of the provision of Article 103(6). The Rules of Procedure, under which, even after the explanation of the President of the National Assembly, or the Chairman, the MP considers that the infringement has been committed, may request, without the right to explain, that the National Assembly, without a search, be made known in the day of the vote. In agreement with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, we move to a decision. National MP Mr. Aleksandra Jerkov, at a session on 16 December 2014, at 13 hours and 18 minutes, pointed to the injuries of members 107 and 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether those members of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against - one, with abstentions – there is no vote, 148 of the total attendance of 151 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Dragan Sutanovac, at a session on 16 December 2014, at 13 hours and 44 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - no one with abstentions - has voted 146 of the total of 148 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 17 December 2014, at 10 o'clock and 22 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for – two, against - one, with abstentions – there is no, there was no 140 of the total attendance of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. National MP Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, at a session on 17 December 2014, at 15 hours and 29 minutes, pointed to a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I ask the National Assembly to decide whether or not that member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: for - two, against - one, abstention - there is no vote, 134 of the total of 137 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has decided that it is not a injured member of the Rules of Procedure. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination and decision on all points of the agenda of this session, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2014. (The session is closed at 5:30 p.m. )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26193	The word has Minister Radulovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26194	Some of the things said don't match the truth. There are two parts of the Development Fund, part of which is mainly from the budget for subsidies of social enterprises and part of which are the own funds of the Fund to be given. Unpaid loans in the part of which subsidies are in a higher degree non-paymentable than in the share provided by the Fund. However, in the Fund's part, we also have about 60% indemnity. The problem is both parts. The bigger problem is in the part where the state in the budget gave money, mostly for subsidies, of course. However, there is also a problem in this area where the Fund provides direct funds. The fact that some big aid to small and medium-sized enterprises from the Development Fund are telling us differently. It is obvious that the situation is extremely difficult, that this Fund is not fulfilling its function. I repeat, money is shared on political grounds. About these guarantees they give, it doesn't even stand. There are a lot of guarantees, let's say, from Agrobank, which are not chargeable, from Vojvodina Development Bank, and some other collaterals that can't be charged. The fund's analysis is still being done. We'll have detailed information, they'll be publicly published on the Ministry of Economy site, you have a detailed overview of all the legal entities who got the money and the state of that loan, and based on these facts we should also talk about.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26195	Dragan Sutanovac, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26196	Thank you. I reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure, a member of 107 who was made by a speech from the SPS, whom you did not warn, who even used hate speech at the assembly session, calling on fellow MPs to go out to the street to see whom citizens hated more, in the belief that the citizens had forgotten which parties he came from, and what good it had brought to the citizens of Serbia, not only during the 1990s, but also in the time that followed us. I remind you that not only economic policy, but this country's policy has been run by the government that has been participated by the SPS in the last eight years, and practically since 2004, which is directly... (President: Mr. Sutanovac, please just don't replicate. What directly, indirectly, affected this country’s economy. If there is a problem with whether or not citizens hate someone, they might first look at themselves in the mirror and see what their political group has brought and what it is that they can be proud of in time for us. What reform has been implemented on your part, except for the Brussels Agreement, which is why you cannot return to the place where you were born and support the agreement as good for the citizens of Serbia and for this country. That's why I'm asking you to leave, and above all...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26197	Thank you, Mr. Sutanovac. I ask the MPs not to use the Rules of Procedure's institute to replicate other MPs. Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today and after 18.00 hours, considering the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I'm setting a break and we'll be back at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26198	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The People's Messenger, Dejan Michael, has the word, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26199	The esteemed chairman, the vice-president of the Assembly, who chaired the pre-paste session, interrupted one debate, in a way that was not in the spirit of parliamentary culture and parliamentary dialogue, while it was also reported for a debate in the Rules of Procedure and for replicas. I believe that, in accordance with Article 27. Rules of Procedure, that's not the way a session should be held. There was a heated debate between the SPS and the DS, which is completely different from the spirit of the Declaration of Reconciliation signed by Ivica Dacic and Boris Tadic, in which they overcame the difficulties and misunderstandings from the past and set off for a near, bright European future. Therefore, simply in the spirit of the work of this Parliament, it is necessary to enable everyone and those who have signed the Declaration of Reconciliation and those like the DSS who cannot forget the period of the 1990s and all that has happened with the old foreign exchange savings, the loan for the rebirth of Serbia, 24 pensions that have been delayed, riots, demonstrations, beatings, power shortages, fuel canisters and all that has happened. In the spirit of parliamentaryism should be led by this Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26200	Simply, I can only join the appeal for the debate to be conducted in a dignified way, and in that sense I ask all MPs to behave accordingly. I don't think developing passion leads to anything, and all we can do is reason with our heads and come up with some solutions. We can disagree in attitudes and views. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day? (No) Mr. Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure? (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: Replica. On whose line? No, please, let's finish the replicas. I can't be objective here. You'll have time to discuss everything more. Please continue to work on the order of MPs. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: I was told that after the break I would be entitled to a replica. Please, we'll just cause new replicas. I'm not in the middle of anything, and don't put me in a position. I give my word to the MP, Rose Igic. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: According to the Rules of Procedure. I've already given my word to Mrs. Igic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26201	Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, the DSS MPs have very detailedly reviewed this law, which you have delivered to us, with a desire to improve, in a way, or bring about a improvement in this law. Of course, today I can't discuss the full budget law, but I'll look back on the part that concerns agriculture. So in order to sort of compare this budget to the previous one, I took the budget that was made last year and this budget you're offering us right now. There's almost no difference between these two budgets in any dinar. There is a difference in the budget rebalancing that was brought about at the end of the year and it shows that the proposal envisions nearly three billion less funds for Serbian agriculture. The 2014 budget proposal has another difference, which is a difference in forecasts for around 10% of the agrarian budget to be the ministry's own revenues. What are your own incomes from the Ministry of Agriculture? It is clear from this that these are foreign loans and payments from loans and the sale of financial assets. If the state is already in debt and selling assets, where will it be invested? Is it possible that the capital expenditure referred to in Article 5? In Article 5, you state some capital expenditure that the DSS considers to be truly catastrophic. It provides for a laboratory to determine the quality of raw milk and agrometeorological cells. The total funds per two items amount to about 400m dinars per year, or 3.5m euros per year. So in three years, somewhere over 10 million euros. This capital investment in three years will cost as much as two dams: a dam with accumulation at Valjev and a dam with accumulation at Ariel. The question is, is it really necessary for Serbia, at the moment when you call for savings, to tighten the belt, that a laboratory already exists in Novi Sad with the same equipment, with the same methods of work that we gave over 415 million dinars for last year? So, Mr. Minister, you weren't here last year when we adopted the budget, but let me remind you, there's the same milk quality control lab in Novi Sad, just 80km from Belgrade. Does Serbia really need another such laboratory, especially since we know what the situation of agriculture is, or what the stock fund is in. Article 5 lists another capital investment, but this time for the Agrarian Payments Administration, where 45m dinars or about 450,000 euros per software are allocated for software uniforming the main breeding records in two years. This software should cost as the construction of water supply facilities for the settlements Subotica and Roanda, the regional despotovac-Svilajnac system. With respect to the promoter, we wonder if this type of investment is really justified in such an investment? We do not dispute that the funds you plan to build new and revitalise old irrigation systems, since Serbia is indeed a country that irrigates only 1% of its agricultural surface, at least in Europe, we support this process, because it is indeed time for Serbia to stop being a country that is irrigated only during the flood or during the rain. However, it concerns the attitude towards forests, without which there is no water. By this draft budget, if it compares to last year's draft budget, you allocate 300 million dinars less for the forest budget fund. No water, especially in a situation where forests are at risk, when they dry, when the leper is a big problem every year, you stand out compared to last year almost 40% of the funds for the forest budget fund. Is this the way we're doing it? We're going to squander such a significant natural resource? I want to point out the following. If the salaries are compared and the employees' fees are added to the ministry, to do so, I took and compared certain things. So, in 2012, the democratic power for salaries and allowances of ministry employees stands out to 543 million. The draft bill on the ministry's salary budget singles out 1,090,000,000 dinars. So, twice as much betraying the Progressive-Socialist Authority. If we know there is no employment, there will be no employment, then I wonder if it increases the salaries of this ministry or if the number of people working there is increasing? It's similar with travel expenses. While the previous government of the 2012 Budget Act envisioned modest 1,300,000 dinars, the 2014 Budget Law plans 12,358,000,000, so ten times the travel costs. Where did our ministry go, what big roads? Why didn't you pay that money for the social security of the oldest farmers? We know that people who are in the country have big problems with their health insurance. So, the ministry has great problems in fulfilling its obligations to farmers and we hope it will overcome them. We hoped that this budget proposal would reach the level of investment in agriculture recorded in the period 2004-2008, but unfortunately, we will probably not be expecting it soon, as well as the transfer of 7% of funds to the AP Vojvodina, which is guaranteed by the Constitution, which was only paid during the government of Vojislav Kostunica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26202	The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26203	I'm advertising members 27 and 106. Mr. Chairman, the fact that you were not informed of what was happening until the moment you sat in the chair's position is no excuse for cutting the debate as a knife, which came out absolutely of all areas of decency at the moment immediately before the session was suspended due to the break. This means that the specific conduct of the session is compromised because it is not possible for those who are in the roughest, most direct way called here, even by name, to respond adequately to this for two minutes, aside from the fact that certain things are said that seem to me to be not appropriate to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It has been said for a whole group, I quote, that gravediggers have ruined Serbia etc. Then your predecessor says rescue - we have a break. Now, who in Serbia knows what is even said here, except that the most disgusting thing that can be said is said, of course, after those locks of one other MP from another parliamentary group of days and weeks ago. That's not what I'm talking about. Basically, I don't think we should allow that kind of thing. And aside from being an MP and saying, "Let's you and I go out to the workers, and we've been out there with these strikers, and they haven't been because they can't ask their noses, because they know what they left behind."
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26204	Please don't lead the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26205	That is why I ask you to give me the replica, because the replica is explicitly spoken by the chairman that it will be made possible for the head of the parliamentary group, in full compliance with the Rules of Procedure. If you don't want to give me a replica, then I believe that this breach of the Rules of Procedure is absolutely standing by all the criteria and that in that sense you should react, not you, but what you will do when you sit in that chair. It's not my fault you don't have adequate information about what happened before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26206	I got information on what was going on. I always inform myself before I sit down, at least about the basic issues that were going on before that. Now I'm telling you, the last one was replicated by Bozidar Djelic. To this presentation, Radenkovic wanted to see his colleague. I asked my colleague Radenkovic to give up the replica, believing that the replica had ended. By that principle, I did. Please appreciate that. I think we've solved this problem. You have the right to make a statement in the voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the post: Yes, I want to make a statement. ) In the day of voting, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The word has the People's MP Irena Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26207	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow Members of Parliament, is the main objective of the budget foreseen for 2014 which is the recovery of our economy and economy, especially the private sector. The full effect will be achieved if a new labour law is passed, which provides for easier work for small and medium-sized enterprises, which should become a healthy basis for our economy. Then, it is still envisaged to simplify the maximum and reduce the administration, which represents one significant obstacle to our country's successful business, both domestic and foreign investors. When it comes to the private sector itself, one of the basic preconditions for its further development and progress is that there is a change in the state of consciousness among our citizens, i.e. to change the forward negative attitude in the private sector. If we really want to develop and progress as a society, then we have to be prepared for the root changes, as well as for taking the initiative, but we also have to be prepared to reject some of the outdated and long-overcoming patterns of behavior and thinking, the type – how to find a state job and keep it until retirement? It is simply not realistic to expect everyone to find a job in the public sector. That kind of behavior, that kind of thinking takes us back, which certainly isn't a good natural flow of things for society or for any individual. When it comes to the state sector, I don't think it needs to be explained in particular. It may best be pictured by the fact that according to the last survey done, as many as 20% of the employees have in the public sector than expected. Simply, what is intended to prevent such things is to determine exactly who does what and whose work is truly a real need. Then, it is also envisaged to introduce a single pay grade, because so far we have had one such policy for people who are employed in different institutions, while doing the same job, to be paid differently. I think it's quite correct to break up with such a policy, just as I think a fair reduction in public sector wages exceeding 60,000 is. Budgetary measures cover both the revenue and expenditure sides. When it comes to subsidies to public enterprises, they will be minimised. We are well aware of all those companies that are considered the biggest losers. What is important is that there are guarantees for public enterprises in the budget, but only to the extent that it is really necessary, so that the consequences are not again borne by the citizens themselves. So it didn't go to cuts that were bigger than necessary, which, in my opinion, really shows a high level of taking care of our citizens. One of the measures envisioned by this budget, which is also not popular, is the increase in VAT from eight to 10%. It's one of those long-term measures whose necessity and positivity can only be seen after one period of time. It is one of the biggest challenges of this whole story that will succeed in implementing all the measures that are envisaged. If there is indeed a successful implementation of all these measures, then the result will certainly not be missed. One of the first foreseeable results of the austerity measures is the reduction of the fiscal deficit. When it comes to the resources provided for education, science, technological progress, of course, each of us would be much happier that these resources could have been more significant. In this situation, the economic situation in our country is also the means that are foreseen. What I think is very positive is that still the allocated funds for free textbooks for students from first to fourth grade, then for young talents, for some scholarships, also for improving infrastructure. Only when it comes to infrastructure would I take the opportunity to mention the unconditionalness of some of our schools, especially schools located in rural areas. It is one of the postulates of education that all students should be educated under the same or similar conditions. Since this is practically often inconclusive, then it is up to us to provide as a society with the means that are, so modest, that these differences, if they cannot be completely overcome, and at least to be reduced. What I would especially like to praise is that our country has recognised the need and allocated funds to build a stem cell bank, because so far our country has lost millions of euros a year to send and store stem cells abroad. Now everyone will win because mothers will be able to keep their stem cells in their country for much less money, and yet that money will go into our budget, not into another country's budget. At the very end, what I would point out is that all the measures provided for in this budget, some of them not so popular, have a crystal clear goal, which is to curb the gray economy, improve tax payments. In one word, the recovery of our economy and our economy, thus increasing the number of jobs in the private sector, which automatically pulls out a better standard of living for our citizens, which is the strategic goal of this government, and therefore, in the day to vote, this budget proposal will receive SNS support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26208	The word has the People's MP Bozidar Djelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, Minister, during the presentation of the DS arguments, you laughed nervously, and you finally said that everything we said was ridiculous. That's why I'm going to start with a few examples of what's not funny to us, so I'd like to see if that's still funny for you. Mr. Minister, is it funny to you that we don't find it funny that we have your legal decision that all employees and all pensioners, regardless of their salaries and pensions, have a 10% drop in purchasing power over the next three years? If you don't believe me, I would quote your colleague, Vice President Ljajic, who said that the average basket of the one who enters any store in our country for the term of office of this government fell from 500 dinars to 354 dinars. That's a 27% drop. Is that funny to you? It's not funny for a democratic party. Is it funny to you that in your budget you forgot for the first time in 12 years to put a broken bank, one dinar for active employment measures? Is that funny that we noticed and criticized it? Is it funny to you that we fought last week, without the presence of your MPs, that the ludicrous provision of the Law on Salaries, which could have led to all professors being fired since January 1st, except for regulars in colleges? Is that funny? Is it funny that we fought it and made you change it? We don't think that's funny. Is it funny for you, Mr. Minister, and for those who are now ready to vote for these laws, that these budgets, contrary to what we hear, predict the devaluation of the dinars from the current 114.9, as it was this morning, at 118.8 how much you plotted in the budget for the next year and the entire 127 dinars per euro in 2016 on average. Is that funny to you? It's 7% devaluation for all those who have loans. Unfortunately, most of them are still in foreign currency.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26210	Mr. Djelic, I have a request for you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26211	Do you think it's funny? I'm talking about the budget, Mr. Arsenovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26212	Please, Mr. Djelic...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26213	What is this? You each time, Mr. Chairman, me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26214	Please, you can be as angry as you want, but it's my duty to warn you anyway. It's not fair or fair to make fun of the minister here and I don't believe the minister laughed at anything. He was serious. If he made a smile, that doesn't make him laugh. I beg you, throw that word out of the discussion and proceed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26215	Mr. Chairman and you who applaud, I ask you then to ask the service to see what the first words of the minister are when our authorised representative finishes his speech. Did he say this was all funny? Did he say that? Minister, did you say this was funny? Yes, you did. Thank you for your honest confirmation. All right, Mr. Chairman. I will not repeat what the minister has now admitted to saying. Is that okay? But we don't think it's funny, because in this budget, what are we saying? We find that it can't be favourable, can that word, to farmers who are reducing the budget by three billion dinars, that it can't be directed to continue, contrary to what we heard this morning, on page 408, this is the law we're talking about, and it's looking at 951 million dinars for the cablers. It says here, do you want me to quote, this is not my reading, but yours, that existing installations are old, are subject to constant malfunctions and congestion in the work that require increased maintenance costs and negatively affect the image and conditions in the ski center of Kopalnik, which was the reason for the launch of the sub-project of the construction of the “Krčmar” wire in the ski center of Kopalnik. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I didn't make this up. Can we say we don't believe in the Democratic Party to be a priority at this point? Will you understand why we suggested that this would not be an expense? I think that's reasonable. When we talk about what is going on, we proposed last week an amendment that could have a positive effect on the budget, because it is said to be saving, and we see that, contrary to what has been announced as a rescue law on public procurement that was supposed to provide between 600 million euros, that was a lower estimate, savings, we see purchases rising by 10% next year. We've heard some explanations, but these are all explanations that can't deny the fact that the funds for the purchase of goods and services are scheduled to grow by 10% next year. So much for the key story of the Public Procurement Act, so much for it. It doesn't seem normal to us at this point when it is asked of the poorest to suffer an increase in the price of bread, milk, medicine, utility, rabbit, and as far as younger and younger ones are concerned, and to increase the cost of computers, to increase in the next budget after 6.7% as recognised by the finance minister in this budget so far, to increase that expenditure by 3.2%, and when we know that not a small number of people will retire, and you don't intend to replace it, it will increase even further. Mr. Minister, we have proposed an amendment that only followed your words. Did we agree with you? You're right, we should have done it sooner, so we can legally ensure that no one who works in the public sector can get more than one salary. You refused that amendment. You did not allow an anomaly to be avoided that someone who is not an entrepreneur, nor has incredible abilities of two, three or four thousand euros a month. That's bad. Now I'm gonna tell you what's been going on since we saw each other last time, that was Friday. Do you know how many people are employed at this point? Do you know how many procedures have been initiated? I mentioned some examples. Will you, Mr. Minister, be familiar with the fact that there are environments where the councilors, those who today form the majority in this House, offer our committees to antedate competitions, so don't make a fuss, so we'll give you some quota? Do you know there are such attempts? That's why you had to accept our amendment last week that allowed all the procedures that were initiated from the moment of the formation of this reconstructed government to be void and that the Assembly, because it's pretty hairy, as the people say, would determine and approve this activity, because these measures you predicted would be implemented. You studied ethics. So I think public work ethics requires that words spoken be followed, especially when said by the finance minister. On the other hand, you may have studied ethics, but it seems you haven't studied Etihad. You know, we've been trying to get a contract for months. The only thing that we see here, and that's on page 108, we see that in the Department of Industry's division, which, by the way, is a very dung and a reason, is the same thing, 8.3 billion dinars for "Fiat" and Etihad i.e. Er Serbia. Please, Mr. Minister, expecting this home and our citizens to be much more important, to approve this budget that provides for significant funds for Er Serbia, i.e. for what you've already done, because as far as we know, there's been a subsidy this year, and the Development Fund has approved one guarantee that we still don't know anything about. We don't even know what the amount is. Basically, today I'm going to show you what many people are doing in that system have delivered to us. This is just in the form of a question. This is a copy of the APR, which is available to everyone. This is Er Serbia ladies and gentlemen, here's Er Serbia, as officially registered to the APR. It says that Er Serbia was founded on February 29th 1992. How's that, Minister? Did you do it 21 years ago when you remembered? I'll tell you how – Er Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, until further notice, according to these documents is nothing but our old JAT Airways. You just changed his name. Shall we move on? Here's a number of contracts. It's up to you to tell if they're true or not, where we see that those contracts for the planes you took, what flies today, are meant to go to Ljubljana where we used to fly, says that for one plane A319, the contract where it's clearly seen that the contract between JAT Airways is, i.e. Er Serbia and Etihard. This means that our taxpayers pay for all those gnocchi, for all the splashes in the airports, for all those scarfs and for all those interiors, which may be better than what Lufthanza has. You know how much we pay? I'll tell you now. We pay $3.37.8 an hour, and since it's scheduled to fly for 415 hours, it comes 1.3 million a month, a little less than a million euros. Ministers and respected colleagues, do you know when this plane was built? Do you know, those new planes? That plane was factoryed in November 1999. We also have this one from 2000. It's time for you to tell us, since there's nothing from Al Dahra and agriculture, tell us when that plane is built, Novak Djokovic. Tell us the truth about how much we pay for it, so maybe we'll back it up, because it's good to find a solution for JAT Airways. I beg you on behalf of all the taxpayers of the Republic of Serbia not to hide the truth. Don't hide the truth, because the more it hides, the more it becomes suspicious. That's why I'm asking you and this is the last piece of paper I'm going to show you, these are Mr. Ministers, the amendments prepared by the DS, 50 of them. They also have ideas about what you forgot. You forgot your youth education programs, you didn't give enough money to the Accreditation Commission, you didn't give up money under the law for any local self-government. The way you reduced transfers punish those who were the most responsible, who hired the least and those who predicted through so-called. subsidies to finance economic growth and employment. Instead of raising 80 per cent of the property tax in Belgrade and other cities, and we were against that law in May when you predicted it, give some money to Belgrade as well. Now that you're taking him, don't punish the Belgraders. Don't punish Serbia. Don't punish all those who want the truth, and don't in any way think anyone's funny about this situation that we're in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26216	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26217	I wasn't laughing at what you were talking about and the situation we're in that you've mostly brought us into. I said the arguments would be ridiculous if this wasn't my country, but since it is, they're sad. That's what I said yesterday, that is, on Friday the last time we saw each other. Now in a row. You're saying, from 500 to 360 dinars, I didn't follow closely what Deputy Prime Minister Ljajic said on the subject, but I guess that's the amount of money people spend when they go shopping. This does not necessarily talk about the fall of the consumer basket or purchasing power. You know that well. It's a manipulation of the fact, if I understand correctly. It's just that I'm not. Active employment measures in the original budget were 400 million dinars, for commitments of 200 million dinars in the division of the Ministry of Labour, and since the Ministry of Economy was still assessing in agreement with the Ministry of Labour how much money is needed under this restructuring programme, you know perfectly well that you have defined the amendment proposed and adopted by the government, two billion dinars for active employment measures. It totals two billion and 200 million new and another 400 million more for commitments made. Then you mentioned firing the professor. We made one joint amendment, which I was experiencing at that time as a common amendment to the Committee on Finance, and after a meeting attended by the first State Secretary, Minister of Education and the Committee on Science. The original law did not provide for teachers to be fired, those who are not regular teachers, and that is not the case at all. I'm sorry that something I think was a quality joint effort, you're turning it into something that's not a fact. The Minister of Agriculture talked about agriculture. We have reduced subsidies everywhere, and our intention is to cut subsidies. Of course, because subsidies are not used productively. Instead of subsidies for agriculture, there are loans from the Abu Dhabi Development Fund for which projects were predetermined and could have been told yesterday by the agriculture minister that there were issues. There will also be another loan that will be at very favourable rates that will go directly to farmers, but not a subsidy in the sense that farmers receive money from the state, not for concrete projects and for increasing and speeding up production. The Minister of Economy was here all day today, I don't know if you asked him a question or if you were talking about some divisions with him. I think we've cut subsidies, except for those projects and there will be more, but they're not subsidies, we can call them whatever we want, for firms in restructuring that we want to reverse, where we have a "Fiat", where there's Er Serbia. I hope we have a few more of those. In that area, I don't think subsidies will be harmful if they help us save jobs from what the giants have fallen into, as we often hear, to do something that's healthy and that works, so let's let the plane be rented. I don't know if it's rented or not, but it's not the subject of the budget. But even though it was rented, I was driving it and it's good. As far as the cablemen are concerned, these are the commitments made from the previous year, as it says very clearly in what you described as a smut explanation. It's even mentioned that there's a path on the bathroom, the path of the pub. If that's a nerd, I don't know what else is, I know exactly what he's thinking. I'm not going to comment, but I've already explained in detail why there's an increase of nine or ten percent, if I'm not mistaken, on goods and services. It's deficiently neutral because of an increase in IPO funds of 1.6 billion, books on both income and distribution, transfers that the Ministry of Education gives to local self-governments of about 6.6 billion, and there were a few billion more from similar topics. Finally, as for Belgrade and the tax hike, you know perfectly well that it is in accordance with the law, that all other local self-governments have already done so and that, parallel to that, compensation for building land is lifted in equal amount. We are, you know, excellently, from this joint co-operation that we had on this one amendment, which, unfortunately, is being turned around by mockery and demagogy, went through all the 50 amendments submitted by the DS and through all the other amendments, a few of them have been adopted where we thought it was constructive. The right to tell you I didn't even watch when we were going through them. I had the numbers and I circled the numbers when we discussed them over the weekend, and I didn't even ask who was handling them. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26218	He mentioned MPs in a negative sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26219	Mr. Arsic, it doesn't mean that he mentioned your MPs to you that you have the right to reply immediately. Mr. Djelic spoke to the minister all the time and I have to confess the gift he used, and I asked him to drop it from his dictionary and he did it. I thank him in that sense because I still felt it was a little offensive. You have no right to a replica. The word has Božidar Djelic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26220	Yeah. Thank you. We're glad you had a good time on the plane. I don't know, we heard the plane couldn't fly to Athens today. Is it because he's almost as old as our celebrated tennis player? I don't know, but hopefully since we don't have anything against this arrangement, you understand our discussion in the light of desire, the fact that we need to find a solution for all public enterprises, including JAT, that it's very important for all of our citizens to know the facts. From you twice, because I asked you to do it the last time you were here for other laws, to do us good, because as MPs, we have to vote for or against this budget, which apparently provides for budgets for this project, to deliver this contract nicely to us. Will you, Mr. Minister, honor not DS but this home and what is more important to all the citizens of RS by contract with Etihad? He's not a private matter. If you're looking for one dollar, and I know you know it, from the register of state, together, it can't be a private arrangement. We have the right to know everything about this arrangement. If there's a line that's a business secret, we'll understand that. We'll ask why, but okay. Why are you hiding everything? Why isn't every arrangement available to the public somehow? We don't know anything. We don't even know anything about that hotel. We don't know why that arrangement with Al Dahra was supposed to be positive, where investments were supposed to come, not credit, and you're right. This little, $265 million, as far as it's supposed to be for irrigation, is a bilateral loan, and it's probably a 3 to 4% default. Tell us why the agreement, if so announced, with Al Dahra has failed? We asked you the same thing in these sections when you said it was a dork, and it's not a dork. I'm sorry there's no Minister of Economy here. Do you stop Siepa or not? until when do you pay for incentives for employment? (President: Time.) Therefore, Mr. Minister, understand our concern in the light of the seriousness of this situation. We have no idea we're doing some controversy here, but we expect concrete answers from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26221	By the book, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26222	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, Article 104 of Item 2 has been violated. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly because the previous speaker in his presentation in the principle of the Budget Law for 2014 said the following things – that MPs who support the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not want to participate and did not want to participate in the work of the Committee and that their proposal was as opposition parties to preserve professors who would stop working at their universities from 1 January unless they were not employed indefinitely. Article 104 provides - if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or political party whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group. If you think it is not offensive for SNS MPs to have someone who says they did not want to participate in the work of the board and that their indifference has threatened the right of professors to teach at universities after 1 January, I do not know what is a major insult. So, the MPs each participate in the work of the board and have their place. I don't want to argue with you, but it is said in such a way that as if the MPs of the SNS did not understand the work of the MP sufficiently, I asked for the right to replication. Please give me the right to do so. Stenographically, you can lead that it's really said.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26223	Mr. Arsic, please. I understand the problem you're talking about. I still don't think the Rules of Procedure have been broken. No matter how you realized it, I didn't experience it that way. But you have the right to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I still don't think you have the right to a replica. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26224	We both know that the session is recorded and stenographed, so please turn on my microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26225	Here you go, Mr. Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26226	Yes, I want the National Assembly to make a statement in voting day on the violation of the Rules of Procedure because it is obvious that the discretionary right of the President of the Assembly, or the chairman, to determine what the right to replication is often misused.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26227	In the day of the vote, we will declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Sasa Milenić, injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26228	With the apologies of my colleagues, in the middle of the day, this is really advertising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure, and it's a little distracting from the subject. But this is just an illustration of the interruption of the discussion of the previous debate on the systematic violation of the Rules of Procedure, which is not just you who are the chairman, but most often you. Article 106(2) - no one has the right to interrupt the People's Parliament and stand—except the Chairman, but immediately thereafter—in the cases provided for by this Rules of Procedure. The People's Messenger has only one thing that doesn't have the right to insult any of them personally. The MP is not a hostess. He doesn't have to be nice. He doesn't have to have a sense of respect for anyone he talks to. He mustn't be offended. It can be cynical, it can be malpractice, it can be ironic, sarcastic, unpleasant, dramatically unpleasant, and no one has the right to interrupt it as it exposes the unpleasantly engaged political truth it represents. It is so much more important and contributes to freedom of speech, which makes someone more uncomfortable. It is a systematic asphyxiation of freedom of speech in a place from which it must stem from the abuse of the presidency's right, which is very discreet, at the very least acceptable, when it comes to insults. Even that twist on the subject is being abused here because the chairman takes an unauthorized discretionary right to judge what a detour is during the second, third sentence.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26229	Mr. Milenic, it is your right to have an idea about the interruption of the speaker. Please, Mr. Milenich, is this now dignified? So, as I speak, they all speak out loud. So, I want to say something else. I just wanted to say the idea of hurting the Rules of Procedure. I realized and so I felt that the MP, perhaps he has no intention, but he demeans the minister, and that's why I asked him. That's why I thank him. I don't mind the way he said it, it's his right, but I thought it was a word -- it's not funny, it's not funny, and he respected it, and I thank him again. Don't push it out now, if we're going to get some dignity in order. You're now asking that everyone here can speak in any way. Here's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Just to be clear. You have the right to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Do you want to go to the voter's Day to plead?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26230	I hate to say it, but yes, I'm going to demand that the National Assembly plead, because I think it's systematic. Silence is not a way of political controversy with politically unacceptable attitudes. That's exactly what this is all about in parliament. In addition, each person’s personal confidence, including the chairman, must retain for himself, if it enters into the unhindered right of every MP’s right to free, by means of rhetorical, aesthetic, political, which he deems necessary, expresses his confidence. I also think of the “dress code, ” I think that's why it gave up. And by suit, an MP can express his political views and his hairstyle and insecureness, let alone civilly unacceptable rhetoric. Who says that every MP represents the "mein stream" of middle class?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26231	Mr. Milenic, I didn't write this Rules of Procedure, and you participated and we all participated in his writing. (Saša Milenic: And I'm defending him right now.) Then please take care of it. The Rules of Procedure say that every speaker in the debate is obliged to stick to the agenda. You, if you advocate a certain controversy widely, it requires a change of rules of procedure. Don't ask me to break the Rules of Procedure. You have the right to plead whether or not you want to get hurt by the Rules of Procedure in voting day. (Saša Milenić: Yes. ) Replica, Bozidar Djelic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26232	I have to say, I'm not completely satisfied with the answers, and I'd like to ask the minister about this next thing. We have information that yesterday's government, and I believe that you were at the government, one of the points was under the designation "confidential" – the assignment of the part of the airport "Nikola Tesla" "Etihadu". Is that true? If it's not true, say it's not true, because the government shouldn't be working undercover. Maybe there's some reason why we can't know what's at that point. I don't know why, but you can't hide that dot exists or doesn't exist. Is this point on the agenda and, if so, why there is a foundation that there is confidentiality of that point and, if possible, tell us if it is possible that after JAT Airways, which is renamed "Er Serbia", someone has suddenly received 49%, and has not invested a broken dinar in that company, for now, that someone without any investment gets a share, if you want monopolies, a pair of extras for international transport, for the capital, there is only one place where you can land, and that is the airport "Nikola Tesla"? Is that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26233	Minister Krstic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26234	Thank you. You know perfectly well that I cannot tell you what has been discussed at the points of "confidential" in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26235	The word has the People's MP Sasa Maksimovic. He's not here. Vladimir Ilic, he's not here. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26236	The Honorable chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is ahead of us the most important law to be discussed in the National Assembly. Why? Because the economy and the economy are the foundation of a single state. Why is this law the most important for the MPs and also for the citizens of Serbia? Because the economy and the economic development of one country is the foundation of every country. The quality of this foundation depends on the life of every individual and every citizen in the country. Of course, by coming to power, the foundation did not find it healthy, largely damaged and destroyed. By empowering this foundation and by laying the foundations of sound foundations, because the economy can only be healthy and harmful by its own measures and by its effects compared to its citizens, there will certainly be improvements in the quality of each citizen. Of course it's not hard and it's not easy and of course it can't happen in a year. I would like to congratulate you, Mr. Minister, on your courage, for giving you an open and transparent view of the real situation in one way, for not pushing one thing under the carpet, but for bringing it all out in a transparent manner, for the people's MPs, as well as for the citizens of Serbia. Only by pulling things under the carpet, facing real problems and finding ways to solve them can this country and citizens of Serbia move forward. Economic policy in 2014 is planned towards fiscal stabilisation and through measures of economic recovery, fiscal consolidation and structural reforms that must be implemented in all segments of our society. For the economic recovery and economic development of our country, it is of paramount importance to create a safe and stable business environment. This is what is of great interest to domestic investors, but also to foreign investors. How is safety achieved, among other things, security and predictability of the business environment? First, through the adoption of adequate legislation. The second thing is also a major impact on economic development, it is the conclusion of the privatisation process, which should go through the process of restructuring and bankruptcy and of course, and in this segment, through the adoption of legislation, which is the question of the Law on privatisation and the Law on bankruptcy. Also, what I want to emphasise, which is aimed at the country's economic recovery, is the professionalisation of public enterprises and responsible corporate governance in enterprises where the state has a stake, but at the same time, the removal of social policy from public enterprises in the sphere of social protection. Finally, we must not forget that for the recovery of the economy, zero tolerance is necessary for non-compliance with the law, corruption and crime, which should be implemented through reformed system institutions. One government shows its responsibility, and I consider this government responsible, with my relationship to the poorest category of population, and these are socially endangered citizens of our Republic. In this respect, in relation to these citizens, which are beneficiaries of the right to financial welfare, beneficiaries of the second person's allowance for assistance and care, users of the right to increased assistance and care for other persons, children without parental ageing located in foster families and social protection institutions can expect stability and sustainability of funding, as the government predicted in Article 35 that economic policy in the social separation work in 2014 would not change compared to 2003. Also, I would like to point out that in function 70, under economic classification 463, local self-government funds are planned and are planned for those poor to improve social protection services at local level. I also find that very important. Further, in function 70, and in economic classification 481, funds for the operation of folk cuisines in 75 cities and municipalities and distribution of hygiene packages and food packages in 105 units of local self-government are also planned. What I would also like to point out is that these are the funds provided in function 40, which relate to family and children and those users of the child's allowance, the users of maternity care, child care and child care, in economic classification 472, and in function 40 47 billion and 250,000 dinars are approved. This is not only relevant from the social aspect, but also important from the demographic aspect. I would also like to commend the 90 function relating to the budget plans for the protection of disabled persons, which is in fact the financing of alliances that Serbia has 32 and the financing of the association of local self-government people with disabilities, in order to improve the quality of life of these people. We all know that social policy in a causal and consequential relationship with economic policy, that separations in the work for the socially endangered population can only be greater if the economic policy is healthier and the country's economic progress is better. I hope that by achieving your economic goals, which is the stabilisation of public debt, that is economic growth through investment and exports, but also the growth of employment in the real sector, there will also be an increase in isolation for the socially most vulnerable population. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the budget in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26237	The People's Messenger Sinisha Kovacevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26238	Dear Mr. Arsenovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of dear friends, the discussion of the 2014 budget takes days, speakers are replaced, arguments and eloquent, income and expenditure parties are attacked equally convincingly and defended. For a reason, there is a reference to economy and agriculture, subsidies, VAT, industry, exports, GDP, imports, deficits, and nobody, if I miss it, I apologize to that caring man, nobody mentioned education and culture. I believe you all know who Dosei and Uncle Jova Dragon are. I don't believe you know the name of the largest Serbian potato manufacturer in history, which does not diminish its importance and importance. About two million people are directly involved in the education and culture of this country, dear friends. So, every fourth resident in Serbia. They are champions, eighth graders, teachers, teachers, aunts, high school girls, doctors, assistants, teachers, composers, actors, writers, painters, librarians, directors, singers, elites of a country and almost 90% of its youth and its future, just as you are young, Mr. Minister. How do we treat that unrequited fact? Excuse me, Mr. Arsenovic, if I disturb Mr. Stefanovic and the DS gentlemen, may I interrupt? I'm really sorry if I bother you, but I'll wait for you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26239	I'd like to ask Mr. DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26240	Most kindly, I'm asking you to make up for my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26241	I'll make it up to you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26242	Thank you. So I'll repeat, one country's elite in almost 90% and its youth and future. How do we treat that future and that fact? I'm afraid I'm ignoring and almost despised. Money intended for culture, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, is being measured. Money for education, science and technological development of a country is barely 17%. Dear Mr. Minister, none of you expect to spend money on a Philharmonic building like this, which is the only one we have in Europe. None of you, Mr. Minister, at times like this expect to spare money for a national opera building, which is the only one we have in Europe. But if we share poverty, then we don't share it so that some of them are poor and others are poor. Dear Mr. Minister, the difference between poverty and poverty, you'll admit, it's huge. This is best testified by Viktor Ego, whom you will agree to not remember as a factory of rigel flour, but as a writer of "Poors". After all, if Europe is the starting point of all outcomes, this sacred political altar, according to which we crawl so unconstitutionally, something we see in everything, why does this reflection, dear friends disappear when it comes to education and culture? Or is Europe like a nosedrop, we take it only when it is politically necessary? Dear Mr. Lazar, your great noun, with a strange last name of Pachu, probably or almost certainly the most successful finance minister this country has ever had, when King Peter asked for his abbey in advance for the next year to fix the roof of the house that he was sneezing, answered the king, Your Majesty, I do not give it. So, not euphemistically, without any euphemism, no – we do not have, not the time, Your Majesty, but – I do not give. When Peter First told him that he knew that he had recently given money to the university, the great Lazar Pachu answered him – Majesty, a state without a crown can, hard, but it can, and without enlightenment, not. Can you, Mr. Baptizer, and I wish you with all my heart to say to your highness, I do not give? Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I know you're Nischlia. Now you've settled in the order of those in which the city of Nis is recognized. Do you know who Nisha's most famous resident is? It's not you, it's not two Prime Ministers from Nis, not even Constantine, not many others. Nischli's most famous is Nischlika and his name is Zone Zamfirova. She, like the literary fiction of the great Stevan Sremec, entered the heart of all written Serbs. The most famous Serbian glory is not St. Nicholas's, but Ivkov's glory. The two of them, Ivko and Zona, celebrate Nis and the homeland more than everyone else together. They not only testify about their time, but become the continual insignation of one mentality, one space, one city, one language, one nation. We came in and humiliated by the great brothers, farmers in co-operation with Suleiman and other pashas and bimbas, again in the situation of speaking Turkish again, again that on these few hundred Turkish words we use new ones, combining them with Indian and Portuguese. In our lives, dear Mr. Minister, Indian brides, Mexican dignitaries, Turkish shipowners entered, and came out Dučić, Shantic, Zmaj, Jaksic, Nejegos, whose 200-year-old we did not want or should not have marked any single billiard competition. Now we are in an offensive and completely paradoxical situation, persuading and asking each other if we need culture and education at all? As if in conflict with collagen and silicones, we had agreed to defeat in advance, turned into a offensive, gave up the idea and attitude that for a time we were not remembered for Milki Planinc but for Ivo Andric, not for your country's Prime Minister Dragisa Cvetkovic, but for Branislav Nusic. After all, who today, dear friends, knows who the Prime Minister was when Crnjanski wrote "Seobe"? We are in no condition, Mr. Minister, to be remembered by the descendants by the new buildings of the Serbian Philharmonic or Opera, by the new college buildings, schools, propriety. But they don't have to remember us as a generation who, like a undertaker, nailed the last nails into a coffin before these two native sisters buried in the same cancer. And if we bury art and culture, who will tell us who we are, where we're going and where we're going? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26243	The word is made by MP Aleksandar Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26244	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, at this difficult time by country and people, inherited after years of democracy, it's really hard to be smart or the smartest but, as ugly as it may be, it's hard to hear from the finance minister, the economy minister and the entire government something that is true and what is reality, however painful and difficult it is to admit that our budget is in such a critical situation and such a major deficit, it's very difficult to fill it. How to fill the budget from an empty state in which everything that has had for these few years of democracy or 10, 12 years of democracy has been destituted and sold out, if we exclude that period before, another 10 years? A simple calculation can be made, if the majority of the government in one parliament numbers 126 people and if they were in power for a total of 12 years, with a simple calculation of up to 1,500 parliamentary years of government that practically ran out of Serbian businesses, the factories that produce and fill the budget have disappeared, the factories that give people salaries and which, after that, spend their budgets. We heard from various speakers during the day that experts of various professions knew all this before. They were not allowed to apply their knowledge. For those 12 years, it was a short time to apply all this luxuriant knowledge and to get that knowledge into the budget. I'd really like to hear the data on how much the inflow has increased since 2000 or maybe before, since 1990-1991, but it seems to me it's negative. How can a budget from a non-working economy be filled, from a public sector that spends unearthed, if you take the most banal examples of subsidies given for agriculture, which you take out of nowhere and you give to no one, because by the time they reach those end-users, much of them are defended and gone? Recently, in a chachasic neighborhood in front of TV cameras, a farmer irradiated a hectare, two, a cabbage, with which he does not know what to do. I think it's a big problem for both right now and for this government that the agricultural products our farmers are raising, and they don't know what to do with them. Maybe you should think about the subject, not just giving advance subsidies, because they raise as-so, and then they have no one to sell. As far as the public sector is concerned about what's called medicine, you'll see that anyone who comes to the infirmary and hands over an untrusted book makes a bigger panic with that sister and the staff than that untrusted book puts a snake in a raise, because everyone attacks on that staff who has received a dying man without a certified book. And who's to blame for him having a certified or untrustworthy book? I think it's easy to answer – these 12 years of misery and accident. A little while ago we heard from the Minister of Economy that the state is trying to reduce economic participation at any cost, and that's good for me when what's called debt turns into government capital. But I wonder if it's imperative to get it out of here right now, to sell it right now? Let's say, would it be good to keep Galenika as a state house, because everyone knows that the prices of imported drugs or the prices of domestic drugs in sold factories, strategic or non-strategic partners are certainly four to five times higher than the prices that Galenika can make at the moment? I really think you should think about that. Someone mentioned earlier that a young doctor has nothing to look for now, because of these measures being taken. I think that young doctors for many years, at least 10, have nothing to look for, and at least six or seven years back, all the fellow doctors will remember that specializations have been banned in this country, so our departments with specialists and subspecies are light on the extremity, as far as personnel are concerned. It's been said that they're crazy provisions to limit wages. In the previous four years or five, the salary of a specialist doctor without that so-called. Insane provisions or restrictions, the salary would in itself be reduced from some 1,000 euros to 600 to 700. There was no provision, but I guess it was a magic wand that someone was able to defuse. So we have a nominally and without provisions and regulations far greater wage reduction for doctors who are probably still using their enthusiasm and Hippocratic oaths to keep what has been unsustainable for many years. If one managed to reduce the number of employees by 400,000 from 2008 to 2012, or how someone entered the controversy, he said 300,000, but no matter how much, it was a real result for those people who did it, and to increase the debt rate from 30% to 58%. For that reason, I want the happiness of this government who has the courage to get into these problems and admit what the situation is. In voting day, of course, we'll support this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26245	The People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26246	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers from Nis, my fellow citizen, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, and this time I will talk about the health problem and the problem of Serbian citizens who are being treated in a very bad system that we are trying to mask. The health ministry says it is not the exact information that the European Commission and the EU have said that our health care is the last on the European continent. I'll start with the first sentence that this budget provides, which is a reduction in the salary of doctors, people who keep social peace, as a colleague said just before, to people whose salary hasn't been increased in the last seven, eight years. You will save about 12 billion dinars by saving and impacting the health system. For these 12 billion dinars, you won't do much to fix that hole in the budget, and you're doing a lot of damage to doctors, the health care system in financial terms. What's more important than pay, we used to receive two marks to two and a half marks during the 1990s. Doctor's salary is not as much a problem as a ban on the employment of young doctors. As a professor of medical school, and as a doctor, I draw your attention to this great problem. You fled Serbia in a desire to find a job. What is now done clearly sends messages to young medical students, while you are on the second, third year instead of anatomy, instead of pathology, instead of internal medicine, learning German, Norwegian, and leaving Serbia. I think it's very bad to keep investing big money in the education of young people and then our best children treat the citizens of Germany, Norway and other countries. We need to understand that this message sends a clear signal to them to leave the country. What is more important, by banning the employment of doctors by 2015, we already have a lack of doctors, we now have a smaller percentage of doctors than they have European countries, according to European standards, standards of the World Health Organization, we should have more doctors and more nurses. If you forbade a few more years, and your colleague said nicely, a few years ago it was less forbidden and the specializations were not given, we slowly enter a gap, an empty space where we won't have anyone to treat us, in five, six years. I'll tell you that in many clinical centres, here in Nis more than 130 people of primal specialists will retire for the next few years. So, what happens then? You don't have the reception of young doctors, they retire, I ask you as a professor. I need to educate a young doctor for five years. After five years, he will have to work five more years to treat people as an experienced specialist. As soon as the health care system in Serbia boasts, over the past year, it has saved some money in the budget. That money was saved on Serbia's citizens' health. Because there are huge waiting lists in Serbia. No waiting lists, no cataracts, no hip surgery, no stent surgery, no air therapy were resolved. I don't know what the Health Department is doing, and why it doesn't ask for money to solve these problems. I'll tell you, we'll talk through the amendments, it's unacceptable for Serbian citizens in the 21st century to wait, 25,000 Serbian citizens, your parents are in some decent years, they may need surgery, my mother and other mothers and grandmothers, they'll need cataract surgery, they're waiting. One cataract operation is 400 euros. Is it possible that we can't separate 10m euros and solve all these 25,000 Serbian citizens waiting for cataract surgery or is it the wish of certain doctors, directors not to ask for that money, so that they can transfer everything to their private offices and take the money there? If I tell you that in Kragujevac, the hometown of our health minister, hip surgery is scheduled for 2025, so what are we talking about? It's a scandal, a ride, that exists in the health care system. The European Commission has again declared us to have the worst health care for the second year in a row. That's why I'm sending a message to the republican government. Let's not save on citizens' health. So it's inadmissible to say that we don't have the money to treat children, we don't have the money to buy drugs. There is a lack of incompetence and incompetence of individuals in the health system, inability to make public procurement and because of these incompetent people, who do not know how to make centralised public procurement, someone now boasts and says – I have saved. Where did you save up, what did you save up, not a single tender you did this year? I'll tell you what's wrong with you, we're missing the following medicines: sincum, ephthyl, myripan, cellite, flormidal, rivothril, chlorovenicol, atropine, erythromycin; we're short of anticoagulants, diuretics, atropins, adrenalines, antidiabetics. Then our health minister tells us – they don't know anything from Europe, they're not accurate data. Guys, let's understand that people don't have the ability to heal in Serbia, that we don't have the drugs. Now that I'm telling you, as a doctor, I'm no longer reaching out to my knowledge that I acquired in college, but I'm asking my sister -- do we have any medication at the clinic at all, do we have any antibiotics at all? It's a system that's now on stage, running this health care system, that can't make a single tender. As I will slowly conclude this debate, in order for my fellow MPs to have more time, you understand that you must not save on the health of Serbian citizens. This is a classic example of saving on the doctor's budget, saving on the employment of young doctors, saving on the supply of medicines, and it's normal to have corruption, leaving young doctors, and it's normal to have the highest mortality rate in Europe, from cardiovascular diseases and malignancies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26247	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26248	I won't be long. We do not save people's health by cutting salaries to doctors who earn more than 60 grand or those who work in more places, and sometimes including universities. You know perfectly well that my parents are in health care, and they've been cut off as well. We have many domestic friends, I tell you from a personal example, who are also in health care and whose children, my generation, have finished medicine in Nis and elsewhere. As far as I know, they're also children of doctors, professors, and they haven't been able to get a job in years. I doubt that this measure, which is selective, will leave no one to the clinic without an anesthesiologist, is not intent, is quite a mutilation of what has worked right so far, and if it has worked properly, and it has not, and it has to change, that is, the whole health system in order to reduce these performance indicators, so that according to these performance indicators, or failures, at this point, we can adequately rank those who work in health care and address those parts of the health system where the problems exist, are burning and affecting in the worst possible way, so that we can adequately channel the money where it is needed. The situation is devastating. The measures we are taking will not significantly worsen this situation, given that it is very bad, moreover, I don't think it will make it significantly worse, and it will create one basis for healthy reform and for setting up a system for healthy legs, where we will know what health systems we are going to go to and how it will work, so that we don't have these devastating results, which you quoted in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26249	The word has the People's Messenger Dusan Milisavljevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26250	Dear Minister, I'll tell you a few things I didn't say in the previous presentation. So I don't agree with you that it won't give harmful effects to ban the reception of young doctors. If we have something valuable in Serbia, if we have anything left of our failed privatisations, we have knowledge. You've directed that knowledge and you've trained abroad, you've come back and you're helping the country here. Understand that the best of our children on this employment ban by 2015, we already have an anesthesiologist deficit, radiologist, surgeon, pathologist. You don't understand, although your parents are doctors, I know them personally... The problem is, the minister isn't responding. I'm surprised by the minister. You have four, five years of no specialization, and now you've been blocked for three, four years. Guys, we really won't have anyone to treat us. It's terrible that this is how you let our kids leave. I'll tell you something else, you say – we're saving, we don't have money, but I'll tell you the same thing in many clinical centres, in many health homes, where your directors are, you're mass receiving party staffs that aren't doctors, so no one mentions doctors, but you're receiving a mid-term, you're receiving primary school. If you realize that, you're very smart, I appreciate you, we've got buried medical institutions with nonmedical personnel. The low clinical center has 2/3 non-medical personnel of medical personnel. So that's unsustainable. We need to do an analysis of who we need to receive, who we don't need to receive. I would ask that party employment, party staffing, as far as health care is concerned, is no longer working in Serbia. Thank you very much. PRESIDENT: The word has a People's MP, Radmilo Kostic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must confess to myself that I have never met such an exact and naked fact about our current economic situation before in similar materials. I would set out a fiscal strategy for 2014 with projections for next and 2016. I have to admit, I've never encountered a problem presentation in any document the way it was done in this document before. Maybe it's a bit of an earthquake, maybe it's too much of a qualification, but I'm willing to defend the views that it's very close to it. And independent, let alone interested observers, simulated public debt projections by 2026 with other parameters on the 53rd material on the fiscal strategy, can find a lot of flaws and grudges, starting with projected parameters, realisation deadlines, offered assumptions, the risk of execution and so forth, but one impression cannot be denied. Reliable analytical basis, impeccable mathematical models and based on them one conclusion – if we do not go into an energetic action for change, we are followed by an imminent economic fiscal and financial collapse. If nothing is done after the simulation, the public debt would be as much as 77.4% of GDP in 2016 and would become unsustainable. But in addition to the measures that have somehow begun and whose application is proposed and expected, the simulated public debt that same year will be 69.8% of GDP. Further projection to e.g. In 2025, it shows its descent into a legal framework of 45% and difficult and long, but at least encouraging. There is also a question of the measures to be taken and this question can be approached from different aspects and orientations, but it is not disputed that the initiator and the proponent of these documents and how he was aware of the scale and procedure of change. It is therefore not disputed that Chapter 4 of the fiscal strategy is precisely entitled – structural reforms from 2014 to 2016, i.e. the reform of the business environment, the reform of the building permit system, i.e. the improvement of the investment environment, the resolution of the problems identified by privatisation, and the structural reform of the public sector, which involves reforms of the state administration, reforms of the system of education, health care systems, reform of the pension system, reform of the social protection system, reform of the enterprises in restructuring, reform of the system of subsidies, public enterprises, etc. It would take us a long way only to list activities in all these areas that should be implemented. Only today, it seems to me, has no one mentioned that the most needed of all reforms in this country is reform, above all, awareness, reform of habits and thinking. Really, yesterday and today, it seems to me that both the minister and the other minister who were present here and are working on it. Just commenting on the items in the documents would take a lot of time. We can only imagine how much effort and time has been put into making and completing them, and that is why initiators and creators of them really need to give recognition. Just one brief comment. Total revenue and revenue from the draft budget law were planned at 929,9 billion with a nominal growth index of 106,5 compared to the 2013 budget rebalance. In agreement with the total expenditure and issuances, together with the cost of purchasing the deficits' funding, are planned at 1.112.5 billion dinars and a nominal growth index of 105.5. If we compare this data to the planned inflation rate, the conclusion is that there is no additional global burden for next year. In individual expenditure positions, subsidies of 96.5, transfers to other levels of government with a 96.3 index will practically result in a real reduction. It's a restrictive component. In doing so, it is not intended to leave someone without funds, but to activate both at the level of local self-government and at the level of users subsidies as much as possible the use of their own fiscal and economic capacity and potentials. Costs for 103.2 employees will also fall realistically because of inflation, even if there are no changes in that part. However, here it should be borne in mind that on the basis of a degree of taxation above certain profit thresholds, profits will be further reduced, and budget revenues will increase by an estimated figure of 12 billion. On the other hand, capital expenditure is planned at 51.9 billion dinars, with a nominal growth index of 153,3 and that is the essence and development components of the budget. The change in the way of investment and programming budgeting, starting in 2015, are significant qualitative shifts. The only budget expenditure with real growth, without any doubt, is interest-based expenditure, which is planned with 114 billion and a 124.3 growth index. The total budget deficit of 161.2 billion, i.e. the total fiscal deficit of 182.6 billion, will be covered, unfortunately, by a new debt of 662.6 billion, with 480 billion being used to pay off existing debts. It is clear that public debt, which is 19.1 billion euros, will increase further. However, it is quite consistent with the projections and it is the inevitable moment if we do not want deep earthquakes. This budget also hides the danger, due to the fact that the creators of the current economic development and fiscal policies will, with the strength of the arguments that have been placed in the documents, be in an unembarkable position. In that situation, they remain to burn down trees and stones by everything offered. But I am deeply convinced that this must not be a moment for each other's bickering. On the contrary, the bitter truths that lie before us require the unity of all forces from this Parliament, because it is not this party or that party, this or that vision of things. It's all of us, it's Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26252	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. You've got six minutes to spare.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26253	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, in the light of this draft budget, you have given a small look at the international economic context, the economic situation, which in any case affects, if not predestines Serbia's economic position, and its budget accordingly. You stuck to the parameters and figures given by the IMF, perhaps quite rightly. It says nicely that forecasting global growth is 3.6% for 2014, and forecasts for economic growth in the EU are 1.5% for the Union as a whole and 1% for the euro area. Here the IMF, when comparing these numbers with those given in the EU itself, estimates for 2014, gave little wind in the back of the Union. As projected to grow from zero to one percent in 2012, the Union was still in recession. It had 0.5% in the whole of the Union, and minus one percent in growth for the euro area. If you just look at these numbers and exempt the EU from these global development projections for 2014, you will conclude that this development without a union is far greater, because the Union, with its stagnation, draws that average towards a smaller number. That's 3.6. Why am I saying this? Because Serbia has tied itself to the Union in its economic relations, trade relations and the whole perspective. The Union has been in recession for five years. So, next year, in 2014, it enters the sixth year of recession without the perspective of leaving such a single state. He has terrible public debt problems, Member States' budget deficits and control of these deficits by the commission. There is no development budget for Serbia as long as it is strategically related to the EU and there is the problem. There is also a problem of planning and income and expenditure and trade balances or imbalances, etc. Only an example works, this issue of Ukraine, it actually has a better offer of Russia in trade, in any material respect to the EU. Russia received the Union by means of a clean calculation, hence the account by the Ukrainian Government and hence its refusal to sign the Association Agreement. This is all that happens next is, let me say, pure politics. That's what I'm saying because it's not a perspective for Serbia and this budget is a thrift budget because the EU is also making savings budgets. It is simply that Serbia is in all of this mimicring a far lower degree of economic development and all of it. Thus, in the part of this budget relating to that free EU aid to Serbia, the consequences of such a one-state situation are seen. The pre-accession aid that the Union has been giving Serbia since 2008 has fallen rapidly for 2013 and 2014, from around 205 million to 160m euros, and today, when you add it all together, the projection for 2014 is the same. Therefore, it is not important now to get big money based on pre-accession assistance, but this is an indicator of the poor choice of the economic partner, the country's strategic choice. The question arises as to where in that Article the 4th component of which the Union gives you money, then sets aside for the growth of the administration or for strengthening the administration of some 120m and some million, so for the growth of cross-border co-operation of 19 million, when the Union in its budget plan for 2014-2020 for pre-accession assistance, where it plans completely differently, without these components, in the end, the Union owes Serbia already from the moment Serbia became a candidate in March 2012, the funds for those other three components it did not give while it was in pre-candidate status. Why? Because she didn't have any money. Now, these are the problems of our economy in general, which result in the budget that we have and which is, by the way, unrealistically planned and very likely, we will also go to the rebalancing of this budget. Just a few more words about the part of the Kosovo and Metohija budget. As the government has eliminated Kosovo and Metohija from its own, so to speak, the state framework, so is this budget reflex. Mr. Krstic, you're not an accountant in this government. You're a minister, so a political official of a political authority. Please note that you are participating in this process of creating this budget. As far as Kosovo is concerned, it is an empty form. It is something behind which there is nothing realistic, even compared to the 2013 budget. There are no transfer funds for municipalities in Kosovo. Only one procedure is mentioned for granting orders to carry out obligations in Kosovo. Not mentioned in Article 33 areas where these money will be spent. There is also no mention of the users' table of funds, which was all in 2013 and, finally, the budget is lower by one billion. This is the equivalent of the state policy seen in this budget in the same way as that state policy. Kosovo has also been released into the budget through a series of water, as has been done in state policy.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26254	The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26255	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the refugee association coalition will support the draft budget of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for two reasons in the voting day. The first reason is because this budget is real and is indeed an expression of the difficult socio-economic situation in which our country is located. On the other hand, because the Serbian government shows its determination to implement essential reforms and create an ambience to address the key issue of Serbian citizens, which is the issue of unemployment. We welcome the government's efforts to reduce the grey economy, increase tax collection, address the issue of public enterprises and create an ambience to bring about the greatest inflow of foreign investment. Of course, it is necessary to pass a set of laws, such as the law on bankruptcy, the Law on privatisation, and in particular the Law on Planning and Construction. We particularly welcome the adoption of a set of judicial laws that should contribute to the creation of an effective judiciary that is one of the key elements of creating an environment for the inflow of foreign investment. I would briefly focus on two more questions about the budget. It is a question of Serbs in the region and a question of refugees and exiled persons. The position of Serbs in the region is very difficult. I particularly want to highlight the issue of Serbs in Croatia and Serbs in the Federation of BiH, who are in a very difficult position. Serbs in Croatia and Serbs in the Federation of BiH are second-class citizens. The main problem is discrimination in the legislation and behaviour of competent state authorities. I particularly highlight the example of an anti-Serbian campaign that has been going on in Croatia for months. That is why I would like to particularly welcome the decision of the Serbian and Mr Mrkic Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has sent one document to all of our DKP in the world to meet the international public with numerous incidents, stripping and breaking bilingual boards, and that the government of the Republic of Serbia is helping to address the issue of Serbs in Croatia in one mutually acceptable way. A special problem is also the position of Serbs in the Federation of BiH, especially in the Usko-Savski Canton, especially in Lebanon's Canton number of Serbs, and we expect the Serbian government, as it intends to raise the issue with official Sarajevo and to resolve the issue in the coming period. As for refugees and exiled persons, I would like to point out that there are 300,000 expelled Serbs living in Serbia from Croatia, 200,000 expelled Serbs from the Federation of BiH, more than 200,000 internally displaced persons from Kosovo and Metohija. The government shows its readiness through its institutions to resolve the issue, and we expect a permanent dialogue with official Zagreb and Sarajevo to be launched and that the issue of property, the question of missing persons, the issue of war crimes will come to the agenda and that a fair and lasting solution to these problems will be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26256	The word is made by Parliamentarian Dragan Sutanovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26257	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to give you the courage to come to parliament with a sure proposal for the worst budget since 2000 and to defend it against MPs, given that there is no item in the budget that guarantees progress or better life in any segment of public life or state of Serbia. Given that I know what the Ministers' reactions to this budget are, first of all, I want to say that as someone who has managed the defence system for nearly six years, I would draw attention to the almost unacceptable budget for the defence system, that the funds that are intended for investment are minor and that sooner or later this budget will endanger the defence system, which is really bad news for all those who care about this country and who, today and now, are taking care of the security of our citizens every day. On the other hand, we have heard how many bad implications there are for health, or health care, of such a proposal. I'd like to highlight a few other things that aren't apostrophe, and they're very important. With tax changes in Serbia's parliament, the government has abolished almost 20% of earnings based on profit tax through local self-government. All local self-governments in Serbia, regardless of which parties they are led and who is in power, have smaller resources. You're predicting a reduction of another 2,000 million dinar transfers to local self-government. Local self-government got into aging and regional roads, so someone imagined that 500,000 dinars could be maintained a kilometer of regional road, which is absolutely impossible. Regardless of who runs local self-government, I expect that all those responsible for their citizens and the environments they come from do not support this kind of budget proposal, because it is disastrous for them and their neighbors who voted for them to represent their interests here today. Mr. Minister, I'm only going to look back on what I think is extremely important, and that's a farmer or farmer in this country. I'll give you some information concerning 2012 and 2013, and then you'll explain to me why the transfer, i.e., the agrarian subsidies, are being reduced by nearly three thousand million dinars, or three billion dinars? I say three thousand million, since those billions are not close to the farmer, they're not even millions, but, 3,000 million, it's definitely something that's extremely big. In 2012, the price of corn was 27 dinars, last year it was 12.5 dinars. So, this government was paying for corn 12.5 dinars even though the repromatter was up by 30%, and the oil went up by 20%. The sunflower was 55 dinars in 2012; last year it was more than twice as cheap as 25 dinars. The price of grain in 2012 was 21 to 27 dinars, and last year 16 dinars. How do you think you can recover agrarian and agriculture in Serbia, if you allow the funds allocated to agriculture in this year to be less than three thousand million dinars? This country doesn't have a lot of resources, but each agriculture is one of the most important and if you have this relationship with agriculture, I'm afraid the result will be catastrophic by next year, not just for agriculture, but for all those who depend on agriculture. On the other hand, you are reducing the money that is allocated through subsidies for agriculture, and you are planning to put the country in debt by about 6.5 million euros, practically 6.5 billion euros. We've been listening for a year now that this government is yours and the previous one, which is also yours, has been in debt to pay back the old debt, and we've come into the situation that with 15 billion euros, 15 billion euros, today we owe more than 20 billion with this debt you're planning. You'll probably pay back some interest, but it'll go way beyond 22 or 23 billion euros, which will be the record Serbia has ever had. The expenditure on interest payments is rising by as much as 20 billion dinars, by about 23%. Compared to the 2013 rebalancing, expenditure based on the repayment of capital growth by 31.1 billion dinars means ten times as much as you reduce subsidies to farmers. All of this indicates that the budget you proposed is not developmental, not even social. It's hard for us to politically see what this budget is and in which direction you're actually trying to run this country. I'd like to and I'm sorry that there aren't a few other ministers present here today to tell us if he's satisfied with the way you've deployed this budget, given how badly I have information was very bad at that distribution itself, that people were confused when they got their piece of cake. Everything's more or less on the budget, but I have a question for you. Politics is not and should not be personal, however, there is something in politics that is personal. As a man who returned to Serbia, as someone who had graduated from college abroad, you gave hope and confidence to understand your finances. I'm not one of those ad hoc people who respects knowledge, until that knowledge is verified through some applied activities, but I'm curious, because I'm saying this is since I've been working on parliamentaryism, or in 2000, the worst budget, whether after the end of your term, your mandate will be shorter because of these proposals, do you plan to stay in this country, live or plan to go back where you came from? I'm very interested in that, because if you're planning on coming back after the crash because of this budget, it's not fair or correct, and if you're planning on staying, then congratulations and I say, congratulations on your courage. I think you really need to have great courage to go to parliament today and convince us that this budget, which in about three years' time, will reduce the standard of living by 7.8%, especially the pensioner, should be acceptable to a party like PUPS, I really don't understand, and I'm telling you that we certainly won't vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26258	Thank you. The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26259	We've talked about these previous budget reviews mostly, borrowing through agrarians. I don't know if you were there when he was. Just to answer this personal question, if we implement this budget and if we show the Markofical responsibility that we're about to show with this budget, after this reconstruction, I plan to stay here. And of course, but not under other conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26260	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Miodrag Stojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26261	Can you just tell us how much time we have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26262	There are 19 minutes and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26263	Thank you very much, Mrs. Kovac. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I listened with great care to the part that concerns education, science and education in particular, and listened to your presentation and presentation of your colleague Radulovic about the departure of young people. I just have to correct you for accuracy, and unfortunately we're second place young people go. The only African state of Guinea-Bissau is ahead of us by the outflow of these young experts. It's a paradox in that whole story. Only about 800 left this country this year. If we know that the annual separation of our country for the education of one doctor on an annual basis is about 3,000 euros. For one engineer, it's about 1650 euros. So, on the one hand, we're schooling, on the other hand we're sending abroad as a finished product where it's definitely going to be accepted, which is a really big paradox for our country. We've got another paradox, and it's not just a drain of those young people on an annual level of about 31,000, and we've got the printing of fake diplomas. According to the Ministry of Education, every tenth diploma is falsified. That's what comes next to leaving young people is the next danger that awaits our country. You've got universities in this country, you've got out-of-state departments that don't have credentials. Just for the sake of information, 15 outcasts have accreditation, over 100 have no accreditation, which means that the control that needs to be carried out everywhere, especially in high schools, or universities and universities. There are only 14 inspectors in the whole country who do that. That's why we've submitted that amendment and I'd like you to take another look. It is that the accreditation committee approves the funds so that they can do their job, because next year 2014, is again the fifth year when they have to go into the control and verify accreditation. So from this point on, I ask you once again to look at this amendment and grant funds to the Accreditation Commission so that they can do their job. We have another problem, and that's a problem that unfortunately in the budget looks like an increase in budgets, in fact, it's no increase, it's a budget for science. You'll correct me if I'm wrong, 14.1 billion dinars are planned for science, but what's not mentioned is that a huge portion of these funds go for wages, and what's unfortunately not mentioned is the part that relates to direct material costs. You know, you've studied abroad, and you know how important science is, especially that translation that deals with the translation of dry science into one product. Serbia is somewhere in the last place in Europe by the number of patents reported. If you put those numbers on paper, our scientist has 300 euros a year. So, with that 300 euros, I'll read you what he has to survive, or 25 euros a month. It is expendable office material, participation in conferences, travel expenses, scholarships to postgraduate students, consumable laboratory material and maintenance of experiments. So with 25 euros, a monthly scientist in Serbia should conduct an experiment and produce a product that will be more competitive in the world. As someone 20 years of science, I think this science budget is clear below every sustainability threshold. You remember yourself that this summer there were strikes of scientists here in our country. I really don't remember, I don't remember when thousands of scientists went out into the streets looking for their basic rights, which is to do their job. So in that amendment, I ask you to look again and fix the science-related budget, and return it to the level that was in 2010. So that's what it is, as far as I know and it's agreed with the Science Union and the Ministry of Education, that's what it is with the former Minister of Education, so that people can really do their jobs, not get out of this country and look for their jobs, or their own opportunities somewhere else. We're losing the elite of this society, and these are at the top of that education pyramid are really scientists. This concludes, with this appeal to consider these two items. So, accreditation and to consider raising the budget for science, and thus also for education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26264	Thank you. The word is by MP Balša Bozovic. Excuse me, before you Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26265	Thanks for these suggestions. We've already moved to draft a budget bill with the Science Union and the Ministry of Education. We also increased direct material costs, that second group more than was the case in 2013. We didn't make it this year. for 2014, taking into account the overall situation to raise them to 2010 level, but the dynamics agreed to come by 2010. And also, I'm just saying that they're going to start paying off the Ceba loan that also covers one part, we're in trouble, not the same materials and not the same costs, but there's a significant cross-section of those two, and there are significant funds defined for next year. As regards the Accreditation Commission, there were discussions with the Ministry of Education and they were within what is possible, and of course not too much and taking into account the distribution of the funds themselves within the Ministry of Education defined as much as they considered possible at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26266	Thank you. Miodrag Stojkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26267	I thank you for this notice. So, if I understand you correctly, the Accreditation Commission will get its resources to do their job normally. Is that right? So that's settled with the Ministry of Education. Unfortunately, as far as science is concerned, I have to tell you that it is an increased budget of 6.4%, but the expenditure has been increased by 7%. We're back in one mild minus as far as science is concerned. So if you look at the size of our country's science budget, it goes from 0.34% to 0.41%) depending on whether it counts with or without credit, and if we look at countries in the environment, say, Croatia stands out 0.7%, and if we look at how much it is at EU level where we all want to go is at 2.0%. Another piece of information, all those countries in crisis have always invested in science in the first place to get out of the crisis. There's this good saying, you're a Yale student, and this is the saying of one Harvard professor -- if you don't invest in knowledge, try to invest in ignorance, because this other one must cost more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26268	Thank you. National MP Balša Bozovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26269	The esteemed chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, has been doing its first rebalancing in some way since the adoption of the 2014 budget by the government by giving its own amendments to the budget it has just drawn up. Apparently, the government in the nightmare between ignorance and incompetence has offered citizens the best budget in the name of which is the word – criminal. Why? Because since its founding, this government has been constantly experimenting with its citizens and out of its own negligence, care and ignorance is doing more than amateur economic experiments that are increasingly unsuccessful, and every new attempt is a difficult defeat for the citizens of Serbia. This government has designated 140,000 workers as surplus in the public sector. That means he'll be fired every fourth doctor, judge, cop, soldier, tutor, teacher, professor, miner. In its criminal budget, the government plans to fire the first 60,000 people in 2014 and projections are that due to reduced demand and reduced economic activity, there will be another 40,000 people without a job. It's a total of 100,000 people in 2014. For that purpose, you singled out over 20 billion dinars for severance. On the other hand, in addition to this government firing workers, we must acknowledge that this government is highly employed. Mr. Minister, instead of Serbian citizens, party champions are hired. Of over 30,000 employees of party champions. The Serbian Progressive Party employs more than 20,000 people in a year and a half at various levels of power. Only the town of Novi Sad has in a year and a half how many SNS there have enriched both city administration and city enterprises for thousands of party activists. The government is acting as the largest party employer in Serbia's history. It therefore increases its expenditure on the salaries of party champions by over 200m euros. The government's budget for 2014 directly takes 350m euros from citizens' pockets and that money has been taken from citizens through a net wage reduction in the public sector and an increase in value added tax from 8% to 10%. Also, one brilliant idea came up with this government to fill the budget by raising the value added tax from 8% to 20% on computers that it considers to be luxury goods. In the 21st century, the government considered computers to be luxury goods and thus became inaccessible to citizens while everywhere in the world computer-owned is seen as an incentive for the scientific and educational development of society. That's what this government obviously doesn't think. Budget revenues will be low due to too high tax rates and therefore some of the economy is fleeing to the gray zone. Citizens to survive do trade in fleas and other markets. As you know, Mr. Minister, fleas and markets don't fill the state's register. The drop in purchasing power of our citizens is 7.9% lower this year. In this year, it will reduce the collection of unreally expected taxes. Even such an unprofessional government certainly knows that the constant decline in the standard of living of Serbian citizens gives a proportional drop in revenues in the RS budget. The Democratic Party will never be an opposition that collects its votes in criticism and populism, and therefore we give you a prescription of what you should do. Instead of using 600m euros for severance and firing workers, we say you invest and hire people, give them a chance to get a job by investing 600m euros in 20 regional economic centres in Serbia. The Democratic Party is asking this government to stop this criminal budget, punishable primarily for Serbian citizens and to stop borrowing. It will be 10 billion euros at this pace by the end of 2014. It is now 2,000 euros per household in Serbia. Mr. Minister, by the end of next year it will be four thousand euros per household in Serbia. This means that by the end of next year, every newborn baby will be owed thousands of euros. The money neither the citizens of Serbia nor the households will be able to spend, they only owe it. You know that very well. Do not spend in vain, but finance exclusively investments, as the City of Belgrade did while it was run by the DS. The comparisons work, Belgrade, until several months ago, had a share of more than 38% for direct investment in its budget. Under 3% of the investment stake is in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So much for the development of Serbia and the developmental character of this budget. It turns out that the only result, since you signed one famous tennis player on a 13-and-a-half-year-old plane, is that the same plane is four to six times a week flying from Belgrade to Abu Dhabi, so it turns out to be sold on average 10 tickets, your successful JAT-Etihad project carries in one plane less passengers than crew members, Mr. Minister. That's why DS won't vote for this criminal budget, especially because it's not in the citizens' interest. He is in the interest of the populist goals of parties in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26270	Replica, Zoran Babic. She's mentioned by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26271	Based on the mention of SNS, be more careful when listening, you wouldn't applaud if you were more careful. We don't need your prescription, Mr. Bozovic, we barely survived your recipe. Why didn't you make business centers when you were able to build business centers? What kind of an ex-wise mind is that? Now you're taking care of your jobs. Are you giving us a prescription on how to get 400,000 new people out of work, like they lost their jobs during the previous government, where your DS was stationary and most responsible? Are you offering us that recipe? No, thank you, we don't need it. This is a sustainability recipe, the sustainability of the 2009 budget, which resulted from the catastrophic budget, where, Mr Bozovic, you burned 60 billion dinars, hoping to see 5% of GDP rise and 5% inflation. Do you know what you gave us? Negative growth, i.e. the decline of the social product by 3.5% and 8.1% inflation, and all of these citizens of Serbia cost 60 billion dinars. Are you offering a recipe by which the same JAT recorded a 55m-euro loss in 2008. But you didn't mind sharing the thirteenth salary, Mr. Bozovic. Now count the passengers. Count them, but tell the citizens of Serbia that you have a problem with foreign partners, that everything new and better gets in the country of Serbia is bothering you. Tell me why you haven't done anything with a deposit that Serbia has deposited to Er Basha in 1998 for $23.5 million... (President: Time, two minutes and 10 seconds. )......................................................................................................... for the planes. Why did you keep your mouth shut for 12 years? Why did you spend 12 years sharing your thirteenth salary, even though you recorded your loss? Is that the recipe you're offering us and the citizens of Serbia? No, thank you, Mr. Bozovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26272	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. (Borislav Stefanovic: First, Božovic, by name, will be named. I went in the order of applications, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Bozovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26273	Thank you, Mr. Granny. Now it's clear to me that you wrote this budget, not Mr. Krstic. Instead of party employment, this government could not reduce profits to doctors, professors, teachers, educators, through a narcissistic solidarity tax. But party books for this government are much more important than the mere survival of Serbian citizens. You've already shown that. While the government employs the regular numbers of the party's books, at the same time our citizens have been raised by living supplies, and you have no answer to that, Mr. Babic. If the SNS continues with this policy, 2014 will be the worst year in the history of this country, but not for you, Mr Babić, and not for your party soldiers, but for the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26274	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic. Mr Bozovic is mentioned by his name and you mentioned DS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26275	You haven't heard from the shouting you're causing to mention DS. I don't think it's correct to throw it out of place all the time and try to get this nervous, noise and reminder... . You remember that I once really well told you that here in the Assembly people say about you – Zoran previous period Babic and that is, unfortunately, something you keep repeating. I understand that you think it's a successful policy, it's your right. We have asked you here a hundred times – tell us, what have you done since you've been in power, what are your results? The JAT issue and the thirteenth salary, ask your head of the Committee for Co-operation with the Arab Emirates, he then led the company. The matter of security, ask your prime minister. The issue of economics is also asked by the head of the Committee for Co-operation with the Arab Emirates. If we had welcomed the Democrats, we are delighted that you tell us that we are against foreign investment and opening up to the world and progress. Do you realize how much your words confirm our successful policy? If they weren't, you'd be sitting here a little differently dressed, Mr. Granny. You wouldn't be spreading our hands here and talking about Europe, but you'd be talking about some old, horrible things that you don't like to be reminded of. What is saddest, clear arguments and criticisms of the budget and proposals that we have made, you are comical already in Serbia, because you don't know what to say, but you are extracting paper in 2009. The 2009 projection was usually made with the IMF. It's a mental noun for you. You're in power for half the term, gentlemen. You have no idea where you're going, what you're going to... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Which way you're going to take this country. Then when you're told what's wrong, you say 2009. Imagine 1999 getting me out of the bag here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26276	Two minutes and 30 seconds. Thank you. Zoran Babic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26277	This is an obvious example of running away from responsibility – I want to go to the government, I want chairs, I want good wages, I want all benefits of government, but I don't want responsibility. The partners are responsible. Then ask someone else for anything but responsibility. Always, and at the moment this government of the Republic of Serbia was formed, when I spoke, I asked for a handover. It must be known and clear handovers and obligations and responsibilities must be made and everything found. There's no problem if he's reminded of what's been found. If that's good, it's good, it's great, but we can't run from responsibility. For this Government of the Republic of Serbia, this one will now make the same handover. And constant party employment and a constant invitation to all contracts made during this government, and you estimate them to several tens of thousands, to break those contracts. When did the crisis begin? In 2008, the U.S. That's when you started using the crisis as an excuse. Come on, then, since the crisis started then and in the world, and it didn't even cross us, we in Serbia saw a chance in the crisis, they were all messages from the former government, then come on and I'll be a partner in the conversation, then let's break all the contracts since 2008 for public sector employment. Are we going to do it then? Let's do the proportional time we've spent in some governments. We can't look at reality with one eye. We can't say. It's only happened for the last year and a half. Once you've agreed on how many people this government will fire on your projection. One of your representatives says – 60,000, the other says – 100,000, and now bids at 140,000. Does that depend on the power in your MP group, so what's the estimate and how many people are going to be out of a job?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26278	Thank you, Mr. Granny. The word is Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26279	It's a really great show. Of course, again based on such an empty story. I have to tell you, don't talk about the currents, because I see mostly of you members of the electricity Tomislav Nikolic. That's why you're having a soft round of applause. But it's already your internal thing and I'm really not going to get involved, I'm not going down to that level. We were responsible for the previous government during the most difficult economic crisis. You're saying it was an excuse for us. What's your excuse now? What's the excuse for your half-failing, disastrous term? You know what your excuse is? A democratic party. If it wasn't for us, you'd already be five games, Mr. Granny. You need a picture to kiss us. Nothing holds you back anymore, except hate and talk about DS. You can't start without a previous period. Just explain to me what the word “come on. ” Just explain to me that I understand. Mr. Babiæ, for the end, when we look at the infamous balance of your work, including your failed, and the brief and lush work in the Water polo alliance, there is nothing, books, brothers, not bells and promenades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26280	The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26281	Unlike my brief, in your assessment of the failure, let your stay and staying as president of the Water polo Union of Serbia be a big difference between me and your leader who is on a long and extremely unsuccessful stay as president of the basketball union of Serbia. Why? For the promotion. Because of the desire to promote the sport successfully and well. Where are your successes? Why is that just reserved for you? Why isn't it reserved for anyone else? Why do you attack me with the same ferocity, and then when I ran for office and beat your candidate, he beat me with conviction, why do you attack me with the same ferocity and then when I resigned in order to departize Serbia and departize sports? What's that, then? Personal hatred, nothing else. Because if it's a principle, then we'd say, bravo, master, that's the way it should be, we'd tell our leader to do the same. But no, hate. Then that hatred honors the other side. That's a lot easier. When there are no answers, when on the one hand there is a glass ball in which to see what this government is going to do... Excuse me, please, the only place and only rapper of the quality of one government is the election, gentlemen, the elections you've lost all over the past year and a half, the choices you'll lose in a few days' time in all places. Either way, we show up and no matter how we share us or how we want to be and what format we show up in, we will beat you again, but not because we are, but because the citizens of Serbia no longer trust you. Between that glass ball that you are constantly looking at and the realities in Serbia, and the reality is 400,000 black families because they lost jobs from 2008 to 2012... You're not gonna put a patch on my mouth and I'm not gonna stop talking about it, because it's a little bit of just the political price you paid once, you're gonna pay until these people come back and get a job.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26282	Mrs. Mehandzic has been waiting too long. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26283	Dear President, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I wish I could say, well-respected ministers, but he's not in the O.R. right now, so I'd like to ask you if you could invite the minister to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26284	As you can see, faster than you could say, the minister is here.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26285	Thank you, Minister. The government and the central party of the government - the SNS speak openly and unfortunately leave even written evidence that in the next three years all employees in Serbia will experience a significant drop in living standards and purchasing power. According to the government's projections, inflation in the next three years will be 10.8%, and you are predicting a total increase in pensioners' budgets and all public sector employees by only 3.2%. Let me explain a little bit better. The government is telling all pensioners and all those working for this country and their country that their purchasing power will continue to drop by at least 7% in the next three years, and this comes after a period of 18 months of the government's mandate so far, when purchasing power has already dropped by 5%. So, during the entire term of office, this government will reduce the purchasing power of citizens and I ask you, Mr. Minister, to either confirm or disprove this today, tonight or in some way. It is said from the ruling coalition that the SNS-led government takes special care of the socially endangered and the poorest citizens of Serbia. How long will you do a conscious and deliberate replacement of thesis? Are you proving that you care about the poorest by increasing the price of electricity by 11% after the Energy Minister's announcement that it will be reduced by 20%? Or do you prove your concern for the poorest by raising the price of bread, milk, meat, basic provisions of life, communals, electricity, water, heating? Or this government proves that the most endangered pensioners are concerned that they will not receive so-called pensioners in 2014. 13 pensions, and that was one of the pre-election promises of the ruling coalition? Dear Ministers, the DS is very moody and willing to help solve the problems that arise in the planning of this budget or as a result of the oversight, inconsistencies or laps of individual ministries or government in total. It is fortunate that there are amendments, so at the last minute you have corrected one of the crucial errors that has been undermined in this budget, or in the draft budget. Let me remind you that you forgot to add and predict the means to actively employ the population, so at the last minute you fixed it by investing your own amendment. It concerns the fact that, according to what I had the opportunity to see and hear from the Committee on Education and Science, there was nothing or that there was very little coordination between the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Finance. This fact is also witnessed by the dangers that we have successfully avoided, among other things, through the DS amendment, so that it will not happen, that I am coloquially expressing the chaos of 1 January 2014 at state universities, when state universities could happen to remain with only 30% of teaching staff, and that 70% of people who worked as lecturers on 1 January no longer have a job. I am pleased to see that, as far as I can see from the discussion material on the amendments for the coming days, you have also accepted the DS amendment concerning "Petnica", although the same amendment was proposed by a colleague from the URS. I look forward to the discussion in the coming days, when we will have the opportunity to consider the well-intentioned DS amendments that we have submitted, which in some cases correct such predictions, for example. The 2014 budget has not provided the means to implement some of the laws that have been passed during this year, whose implementation begins on 1 January 2014 and are precisely from the domain of education and science. I ask you to look at the materials that we have instructed you, since you obviously don't know what this is about right now, so give us the appropriate answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26286	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26287	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really admire some pessimistic predictions of MPs from the DS. I may have to say that we with the SNS see what this government is going to do with its entire mandate. This government will pay back all its debts it has not created. This government will have to take care of its citizens by avoiding high inflation. This government will have its entire mandate to take care of the dinar course. This government will have to worry about enterprises that haven't been restructured for 12 years. The government will have to look for a job for 400,000 people who lost their jobs during the Mirko Cvetkovic government. The government will have to restore its entire mandate to a country that lost its reputation during the rule of Boris Tadic and Mirko Cvetkovic. This government has a lot of work to do to eliminate the consequences of a carelessness, a public service, and an irresponsibleness. That's how we look at SNS. If the citizens chose us to represent them, if we won the elections and founded the government, that means we have to take care of those citizens, not ourselves. (President: Time. If we take care of ourselves, the state will fail, and someone will be richer by a few tenths of a billion. We don't have those in the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26288	Borislav Stefanovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26289	Mr. Arsic, one correction. Your government will be down by the end of the term. That's what's safe. In a free fall. Speedy. And otherwise the results of your government's work, among other things, are 53,149 economic operators in the blockade in this country, 22,789 enterprises, 30,360 entrepreneurs, 13,500 deleted entrepreneurs at the request of the National Bank of Serbia. Total economic losses increased by 77.5%. During the government of Mirko Cvetkovic who worked during the economic crisis and when over 200,000 jobs were lost, but not by the state. Not by the state, that's what you're going to do with between 60,000 and 100,000 new jobs you're going to do. That's the crucial difference. The number of employees by more than 10,000 regular routes has been reduced, and there were 6,000 fewer employees in public enterprises alone. And look what you're doing on the other side. It's that language when we tell you what's wrong and point the problem, that you answer us how you're going to solve it, not that you're going back to those crystal balls and time machines. You're going backwards. Because back there, you can only find work under difficult circumstances and a reputation you can only dream of. It is not correct when you use a political argument, you can say anything, but you, who wore the badge, not yourself, and you personally, okay, I wanted to say that I am not speaking to you personally, so you who wore the badge are talking about the reputation of the Republic of Serbia. You recognized the reputation of the Republic of Serbia as a figure of speech this morning. Gentlemen, it's not correct. (President: Time. ) Have understanding of the people you mention for what they have done for this country. And the fact that you're yelling at nothing, what you're going to do for this country, people are going to get it real quick and make sure they're going to punish you and they're going to barely survive you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26290	Replica, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26291	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I do not defend the MPs of the DS to boast of what they have done well. But I'll remind them of what they did wrong. I'll give you an example of how you cared for your employees. “Meat industry Damjanović” – 400 employees. Gross traffic of two billion dinars. Net shown profit – 400 million dinars. If the state didn't move, 40 million dinars went into the budget at the time. It was closed by order of Mr Dragin and Mr Micevic because he did not want to trade with Miskovic and Matijević. What I'm telling you, I can prove materially. I can tell you about companies that are isolated from the EPS system. And one more thing, when you mention companies that have been shut down and failed, you can choose from your choice the company that was founded in 2001, 2002, 2003, 2005, in 2007, to go and look at the balance sheets of the company, to see why they failed. They failed because of loans taken in euro and the euro jumped 10. 15%, they couldn't make just for the banks. Many today survive both the tavors and cover your losses. It's the same with citizens. It's the same with the state. And why did four and a half billion euros of foreign exchange reserves go missing? Answer that. You don't have to answer, but those are the results.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26292	Replica, Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26293	I didn't understand the results, just that part. I understood the criticism, somewhat about the liquidity of companies and foreign reserves. Yeah, but I still don't hear what you've done? What did your government do in Serbia? What did she do besides raise prices, drop in living standards and rise in unemployment? Do you know, Mr. Arsic, we meet often in Kostolc's campaign, do you know what your municipal board does there? Do you know that they have 314 lists of young advances who will hire after coming to power? Yes, it is. And do you know what they didn't tell them? That your government has banned employment from these proposals. So how do you promise them, while at the same time forbidding them employment? Either you're not telling the truth, or you're gonna try like in the New Sad overnight to hire them. There's a truth out there, Mr. Arsic, somewhere. Nothing can erase the fact that all the indicators are terribly bad, that the country is in a very bad economic state. Fifteen percent less food is bought in Serbia, Mr. Arsic. And now you're gonna say it's DS's fault. Look, you can sell the brick once, you can sell it twice, but three times doesn't really work. You have to think of something better. You're not good with that story. Simply, citizens are increasingly experiencing the consequences of your poor authority. That's a fact. When they open their wallet, they see there's nothing. They only see the first Deputy Prime Minister in the media to announce. You say you have evidence. You file evidence for every possible crime, it's your duty as a citizen. Just please, don't do this like you've been doing so far, we're going to charge compensation to all those people who are getting out of prison that you've arrested. Who's gonna pay for that? Your marketing to pay Serbian citizens compensation from Miskovic and beyond. You have to be more serious. No one defends Miskovic, Mr. Granny. We're not defending Mishkovic. You sent him to London today to take a walk, give you money for the campaign, that's what this is about. We charged him extra taxes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26294	Replica Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26295	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can only say that there are no lists in Kostolc's faces that will be hired if the SNS wins the election, and they will win, so don't worry about it. He'll win for another reason. In 2014, the Council adopted Kostolac, the town municipality of Pogorec, will be Serbia's largest construction site. A new 340 megawatt thermopower plant is being created. She's gonna make something. It will employ people, but not on a party principle, but on the principle of profession and in 2018 it should end. Is it someone who regrets making something new in Serbia? Something to make money? Something that doesn't spend money? When it comes to caring for workers, there are isolated companies in Kostolc that have been left with mercy and mercy. A leadership that did not want to participate in public procurement for the performance of the work on "TE-KO" Kostolc was set up. They got the job of someone else, because the incompetent management didn't want to get it, and then those same companies, separated from the power system, were subcontractors, while someone put money in their pockets from the difference. Don't worry about the companies in the restoration. Both PRIM, production and repair and installation and "Georad", will be returned to the power system in early 2014. That's what we promised the citizens in the 2012 pre-election campaign, but as the SNS Fireman City Committee, we'll do it. Autotransport is also an analysis, and all other companies, which have been singled out, are being analysed for the justification of their return to the system. So don't worry about those people, they won't get fired, they'll do their job and they'll get paid.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26296	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26297	Let's really try to finish these replicas. I am pleased, Mr. Arsic, that you have answered for some of these companies, given that people in Kostolc are most often asked about it, both for Autotransport and for Kostolac services. It's just that when she was Minister and you were probably talking to them, during their blockade, no one told them if they were really going to be returned to the EPS frameworks, and we ask you, not you, we also ask the minister, since the Energy Minister isn't here to tell us if they're going to be returned, because we think it's good for Kostolac and those people. Also, building a thermal power plant is very good news. Everyone should be happy about it, but say it all the way. Tell me which government, what time did she arrange this deal with the Chinese, because our government didn't make a deal? (Marko Atlagic, from the place: No. Really? All right, here we go. Okay. It is important to build, so that people in Serbia see something. Except you have another problem, because the SPS in the campaign is also saying it's their fault, because the director is theirs, and the contracts are theirs. So if people don't vote for them, you say there will be arrests, and they say there will be no employment on the contract. Make a deal with each other. That's the problem with this government. You're working on five fronts, on five of those tracks you're moving. Then no one knows where you'll end up. So, it's just all about marketing with you, no content. I'd really like you to keep this up with some concrete things to tell us. It's just that there aren't any factories we haven't agreed on. Employment results are terribly bad. Investments are terribly bad. There's just not enough to brag about, except marketing to arrest. Let the prime suspect go to London, maybe Er Serbia, or maybe not, because he doesn't have a slot. Do you understand? That is the problem of your authority. So when we point to problems, answer us what you're going to do, not what was done before.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26298	The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26299	When it comes to the thermal power plant, that part of the story about how it started the previous government had fallen into an impasse that she couldn't get out of because of the standardization of equipment. Now, why was that a problem, I couldn't answer, because I'm gonna look tendious. The equipment did not meet our conditions for electricity. As for PRIM workers and Georada, who are returning, in May of the month, I initiated a conversation with union representatives... (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: "Autotransport". ) There will also be “Autotransport”. ... Initiating talks with representatives of unions of all isolated companies, with the management of TEKO Kostolac. Since the talks with TEKO Kostolac and trade union representatives, the two companies have entered the process of returning to the electricity system and will be returned, don't worry about it. As for Autotransport, in this regard is the difference between SNS and DS, we will wait to see what analyses they will be when it comes to Autotransport, whether they meet the conditions to be returned to Serbia's electricity industry or not. We don't want to look at it in advance, and we don't want to talk about it casually. My own are some personal estimates that the "Autotransport" is a great chance of returning. We'll see. We'll know that in maybe a few weeks. It's perfectly correct. So we don't want to promise people anything, and then it turns out we lied to them. In that, I say, there are some things. We want to be careful, to know what we can do and what we don't. I think that's how politics should be run, not with some advance promises that have been predicated to failure, but, you know, there are enough gullible people to believe that and vote for some political option. We don't want to play with anyone or whose fate we're gambling with.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26300	The word is made by MP Miletic Mihajlovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26301	Your Honor, I'm advertising Article 106. I think this discussion and the replicas that are being held here are out of the agenda and are in the function of a pre-election campaign for the township of Kostolac. So the question of what investments are in the Termoelectrica Kostolac is a state issue and cannot be a party issue either DS or SNS or SPS or any other party. It's a state project. Also, the return of "Georada", the PRIM, "Autotransport", if it comes to this at all, cannot be a party issue and a pre-election issue of any party, I mentioned three who are predicating may have significant results in Kostolc. So I ask you, Mr. President, to conduct this session in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to return to the agenda and leave the election campaign for the upcoming elections in the Municipality of Kostolac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26302	I couldn't agree more. I'm the first one to call back on the agenda. Believe me, I don't have much fun either, especially when I know we don't have a direct television transmission from 17 to 45 hours. In any case, I'm trying to make sure that the debate goes to some normal time, and that's why I'm calling on all my colleagues to get back to the debate, especially if there aren't a lot of speakers left, so we can finish the debate. The minister's been here all day, he's been listening very carefully to all the exhibitions. I think it's out of respect for Minister Krstic that we need these replicas to be completed and moved on. The word has a folk ambassador, Zoran Babic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26303	I signed up for the replica with the announcement that we don't have a television broadcast, but this television broadcast in the replay is going to be watched, it's going to stay in the record. This is how I address you, too, respected colleagues, and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we just had Mr Stefanovic's most brutal interference with the independence of an independent branch of government called the court and the judiciary. The most brutal mixing and ordering, not only liberating charges, release from the indictment against Mr. Miskovic, and I don't know, nor want to comment on either side, but even the announcement that the state of Serbia will pay Mr. Miskovic compensation. In this way, the independence of the judiciary is violated, in this way the politics of the old, tried-out manner is mixed in the judiciary and in the epilogue of the judiciary. This way, political pressure is being put on the court to pass the acquittal and even to pay Mr. Miskovic's compensation. There's this string of tycoon-political or I don't know what else, directly spoken from this pay phone, and that's why I'm asking for all of this to get into the record, because unfortunately somebody's going to write about this in the worst and most negative epilogue. I'll give you one answer, since we... (President: Time. Just one sentence. ... We are rested not to give an answer. I'm going to give you an answer which is why the companies in Serbia are failing and they've failed. Companies failed to live in one company, to live in the 'Darekt Media', which was the income of 39 billion dinars, from the moment the owner of the 'Darekt Media' became a minister, and afterwards the mayor of Belgrade. That's why the other companies went down.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26304	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica. This will end the replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26305	I thank you, Mr. President. So we don't interfere in the work of the judiciary. The Constitutional Court has made a decision for several detainees. We absolutely have no idea that we're standing by anyone you named. We have nothing with these people, unlike your party and what is certain is that what we have said is part of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and is not a interference in the work of the judiciary, and at least it is correct, I repeat, if it is true. That's what you're saying, if, I repeat, it's true that at your Bureau sessions, you're discussing who's going to be arrested and you're telling us about getting involved in the work of the judiciary. That's what your MP Cvian, a member of the SNS presidency, says. Whether it's true or not, I don't know, but you're ready to go to a polygraph, and this same Cvian is designated by Mr. Vukic as the best lawyer in Serbia. It was an absolute star of the deadline. Don't tell us about the companies the way you and I both know that your vice president, even though this isn't being transferred, but as you say, for future generations, your vice president of the party took a loan from four banks, the cent didn't come back. All living in bankruptcy, man drove away. He does not pay the baker's bread, as it is said in Serbia. Now you get up and talk about it. If I told you one thing, you a marble man would, yes, you would have ruined it. It's the sad fate of Serbia. You don't know anything but the last period, the previous period, the previous period, in Gilas, in yellow, and before that you take a lot of air. There's just no transmission, so don't take away our oxygen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26306	The word is from the People's Messenger Ljiljana Lucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26307	Thank you. There is only one minute and 15 seconds left, and this is an opportunity, Mr Minister, to repeat once again the position of DS MPs, why we will not vote for the 2014 budget, not because we do not understand that it is a crisis and it is difficult to make a budget that everyone will be pleased with. We ran the government, so DS, in years of crisis. We know what difficulties these are, but what has never been done in this House at the time of the crisis, means in these five or six years, it is to suggest that the burden of the crisis be paid by citizens, the poorest, through the increase in the price of basic foods, those slightly better assets, so on. Our middle class, therefore, employees of the public sector. But even that wouldn't be a problem, they're freezing their salaries for the next three years and pensions, such an indexation, we can call it by freezing pensions in 2014, 2015 and 2016, but by being in vain. So there's no record of that victim being a citizen. Public debt is higher, deficit is higher, state spending is higher, unemployment is higher. Why should the citizens of Serbia sacrifice themselves? Where's the exit? You're not offering it to us. That's what distinguishes our government from this government that is now current.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26308	The word has Minister Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26309	Just to be clear, you have done nothing during the crisis, and for that very reason we have no choice but to take the measures we have to take. Let's not say anything, anyway, not enough. This is something that offers a healthy future. Why? So that we wouldn't have a disaster, because we've been digging a hole where we've been standing for the last five years deeper and deeper and deeper and finally, I'm afraid, we'd get to the bottom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26310	The word has a folk MP, Ljiljana Lucic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26311	Mr. Minister, I see you have quickly mastered this political school in Serbia. I wish you'd kept it, for example. Your expertise, and you have not progressed so quickly in political advances. When you say nothing was done, you know that's not true. But let's start by assuming that some of it's true. In fact, the effects of this value added tax and the freezing of wages are around 300m euros. What we should give for "Serbia" and "Serbian Railways" is more than 300m euros. We didn't vigorously go into solving these problems. What are you doing for 18 months? We watch arguments in the ruling party, watch the coalition fight and watch bilateral relations between Serbia and Russia be disrupted. Nothing happened. For "Srbigas" alone in 2014, we need 140m euros, with a new 200m-euro debt. One word, it's time to realize that it's not easy to run a state in crisis and how easy it is to talk and how hard it is to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26312	The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26313	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, we can easily imagine and conclude the state of public finances by reading the 2014 Budget Proposal, and thus the state of the country as a whole. From the point of view of the party which is the legitimate representative of Bosniaks in this parliament and the government who has been given the responsibility to deal with the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, we can find several shortcomings in this draft budget. And this draft budget is to a certain extent relying on the pattern of the last one, just like the last one leaned on the previous one and so on. To be honest, this budget proposal is far more realistic than the previous ones. Our view, however, is that we must change the way we work, in which the draft budget is drawn up and thus change policy towards the underdeveloped. To overcome these patterns of mistakes towards the underdeveloped, the Sandzak Party is proposing to form a fund for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, which would result in the merger of two former Yugoslavia funds. We talked about this at consultations with the finance minister and we agreed that this was a problem and that this is one of the more effective ways to correct this error. Looking from this angle and based on the resources allocated to the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, we believe that the state development policy is going in a good direction, but very slow and very undecided. In line with this, the question arises how much we have actually brought about the change we have promised the citizens. We all come from some parties and all of us in our pre-election campaigns have visited these undeveloped areas, promising greater investment, promising better living conditions, more jobs. However, after the constitution of the government, there you could see only one member of the government, Minister Ugljanin, who is trying to do something with those 497 dinars per capita that the current budget foresees or, translated into percentages, 0.04% of the budget for their sustainable development. There was nothing better in the previous term. The draft budget separates even less, 409 dinars per capita, which is less than four euros intended for sustainable development for the whole year. Because of these facts, it is necessary to set up a fund for the sustainable development of underdeveloped areas, and this really creates conditions for SDA Sandzak MPs to support this draft budget. We must be aware that about a million Serbian citizens live in these 46 cities and municipalities across Serbia. Because of the future of so many citizens, we really need to increase the resources that are designed to raise the level of sustainable development. That is why we have also established the Government's Office for the Sustainable Development of underdeveloped areas. Some will say that this is a time of crisis and that it is normal and that all ministries have been reduced budgets. However, we are not talking about ministries here, we are talking about citizens and the task of the state to make social cases into taxpayers who will not be burdened by the budget. Speaking of an inadequate relationship with undeveloped people, I would especially like to mention the area I come from. In Sandzak, the unemployment rate is twice as high as the republican average. There's no railway, no gas, no highway, no airport. No factory works. Employment subsidies bypassed the area at a wide port. What it does is exclusively a private sector that is deeply and strongly affected by this crisis. With so many differences in development, we have nowhere to go in front of the European Union. If we plan to enter the Union by 2020, we have very little time for this huge job. If we want to reduce the difference we have in six years, for example, between Belgrade and Tutin, New Varoshi and Black Grass, Plandišta and Preboj, we are already very late today. Citizens in Sandzak, but also all of those undeveloped areas across Serbia, about a million of them, must get a chance to develop and there must really be no compromise and excuses about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26314	The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26315	Dear President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are already finishing the second day of discussion of the draft budget law, and I can say that MPs, more or less, have had similar views on certain issues related to budget criticism, as well as on certain advantages of this draft budget law, and in this sense I risk repeating myself in certain segments, since the debate on this matter is already over. In any case, Article 3. The draft budget law represents one table containing guarantees Serbia will issue in 2014 to business banks of up to 787m euros, as follows. The public company "Serbian Gas" goes to 200m euros, the public company Elektroprivreda Srbija" 100m euros and "Zelezara Smederevo" 30m euros. In all three cases of 787 million even 330 are allocated to maintain the current liquidity of these three companies. I think that perhaps, in part, the economic and economic inefficientness of Serbia and the Serbian economy may even lie in these particulars. The next area of the draft budget law I wanted to talk about is the area discussed last week during the debate on the set of laws necessary for the implementation of the economic measures proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and concerning the state of public debt on 30 September 2013 and the projection of the war on loans taken. Mr. Minister, I don't think you may be the right address for finding out about this issue, since it's about the loans that were taken in the period before you came to the minister's post, but it's your inherited condition, so the situation is what it is. What's symptomatic is the great colourfulness of interest rates for certain credit lines, so they range from as much as 0.75% to 8.5% and above, which clearly shows that the state may have taken even overpriced loans compared to what it can actually pay. As a consequence of such a situation, we have the fact that the income of the NBS is exactly the same as the profit from public enterprises, i.e. companies whose founder is the Republic of Serbia. It's worth three billion dinars. Finally, part of the draft budget law related to the Ministry of Economy described a capital project to build infrastructure and superstructure in tourist centres, which implies investments of around 947 million dinars for the purchase of machines and equipment in the ski centres of Kopalnik, Stara Planina and Zlatibor. I don't think tourist centres are just investment in mountain tourism. In this sense, I will mention that Serbia has about 50 baths and in this sense Banish tourism is much simpler to invest in in the sense that it does not require some large infrastructure expenditure, and the effects of investment in this branch of tourism are significantly higher. As Nischlika, you assume that I will mention Niška Banja and not only its warm water, but also that it represents one of the oldest spas in Europe. It has an extremely favourable strategic position in terms of air traffic, i.e. the connection between rail, air and road traffic. The niche have long been waiting for the construction of the mentioned Aqua Park in Niška Banja, and I think it can be potentially very important for this part of Serbia. Since I have plenty of time, I would only mention, I have submitted an amendment to that subject, so we'll talk about it in a period of time, but I have to mention that it's quite disappointing to me as someone who comes from Nis that not purpose transfers for the City of Nis are reduced to that amount, as is the case with this year's budget. Nis has over 40,000 unemployed people. In the morning part of the session, I was talking about how many factories are closing down, how the investments stop, and I think that the reduction of the non-intentional transfer in the City of Nis and that it is a major problem for its further functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26316	The word has Minister Krstic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26317	I have to turn to this last part, which is that we've all had the same criteria for Nis. Unfortunately, that's what's going to happen next year, and by half the year we're going to change the Law on funding local self-government, so it's going to be more on local self-government by the time they can collect taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26318	National MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26319	Mr. Krstic, I really believe that you love your city and that you tried to get Nis more money than he did, but obviously you're not enough. I keep talking about this Law on the financing of local self-government, which provides for two criteria, which determines the amount of non-intentional transfer funds. And you know for yourself that one of these numbers is population, and that another criterion is the degree of development. The way the table and individual cities in the table are presented is thus selectively shown. For example, I'm going to have to mention Novi Sad. If you're already talking about measuring one of these two criteria, if we're going to start from the degree of development, then Novi Sad as the most developed can't possibly have 920 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26320	The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26321	Dear President Stefanovic, Minister Krstic, after this debate in today's day, I return to Vojvodina, my village, and I regret to tell the Vojvodjan voters that you have not accepted any amendments to the AP Vojvodina Assembly. Now we've got the report and I see that nothing has been accepted. For the MPs who come from Vojvodina, and in the National Assembly there are about 45, if I have calculated correctly, part of the budget relating to the financing of the region from which they come must be priority, because it is natural for everyone who comes from some neighborhood to fight for it, to fight for people, to fight for the end in which they will return and to which they leave every day. That's why in my speech, I'm going to look back on Vojvodina and part of the budget that concerns it. As we all know, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought in 2006. The people of Vojvodina did not support him. The day, December 31st, 2008 was the last time the AP Vojvodina Funding Act was due to fly, which would achieve the budget meeting constitutional items. The financing of Vojvodina remains unstable and unpredictable. The financing of the Vojvodina is still contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The objective is to provide the AP Vojvodina budget with the provision of Article 184(4). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia established a minimum budget of 7% of the republic's budget, i.e. allowing the implementation of the constitutional obligation to benefit from the AP Vojvodina's three-week budget for capital expenditure financing. In a situation where there is no clearly defined legal framework for financing the powers of the AP Vojvodina and in a situation where this constitutional minimum of 7% is all but not an official Belgrade's obligation towards the AP Vojvodina, in a situation where no money in the AP Vojvodina budget has been completed in ten months. In a situation where only four dinars are singled out for total regional development in the Republic of Serbia from 100 single dinars for Vojvodina, the only logical reaction when the Republic budget, i.e. the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, is to try to provide the minimum of 7% for amendments to the law that provides for the Constitution. Transfer funds should be directly directed to end-users, not to go over the Vojvodina budget and create one picture that is bigger than it really is. The Vojvodina will be cut off by more than half of its budget, which has been built on 56 billion dinars, or 32 billion dinars. It is about transfer funds for education and local self-government. Let me remind you, in the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, the first position of Article 157 is stated – in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, funds are provided for the acquisition of education and education of children and pupils in primary and secondary schools established by the Republic of Serbia, AP and local self-government units. So, regardless of who the founder is, education funds are provided directly from the Republic of Serbia's budget. I think it is clear to everyone that in this draft of the Republic of Serbia's 2014 budget, by rerouting 23 billion dinars through the AP Vojvodina budget, practically the Republic of Serbia has saved itself 23 billion, because it has twice counted something that had to be really accounted for. Transfer funds in the expenditure structure are more than 60%, and this fact indicates that the government of the AP Vojvodina had a very small financial space to implement its objectives, such as reducing unemployment, promoting economics, supporting culture, the work of national communities, etc. The Vojvodina is an underdeveloped region. Who is responsible for the fact that Vojvodina has become an underdeveloped region? The Belgrade region is classified as being developed because it generates the value of gross domestic product above the republican average. Data from the Republic Statistics Institute show that unemployment in Vojvodina is the largest in the country since the southern Serbia region. It is also interesting how foreign investments were coming to Serbia. For example, in Vojvodina, all successful companies such as brewers were sold, while NIS, which accounted for 90% of Vojvodina's Naftagas, were sold for only 400m euros, although it was estimated at 2.2 billion. So this political sale of the national oil company fell directly to the burden of the people of Vojvodina. On the other hand, no major dukean company that was in trouble has received incentives, such as received the flag when it was sold to the Fiat. Serbian citizens are also expected to be announced that they will be expected to be fired next year and that new jobs will be poorly opened. Personal consumption will be reduced. I want to say more about agriculture. Agriculture will be even harder to live. Farmers will have to hire personal accountants. They won't be able to register agricultural holdings unless they have their accountants. We know what the prices of agricultural products are, and we know that farmers from my village still waiting for incentives, in fact from the Agrarian Payments Administration from Capca... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... as early as 2012, which was not paid to them. Let me just say, I belong to a national community. I'm a member of the National Council. What I'm saying is that without some talks, we get the solutions that the resources for the work of the National Councils have been reduced by 20%. I think this year will be even worse and that there will be positive discrimination against national councils, because there is no Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26322	Next reported is Mr. Jeremic. You don't want a word, or do you want a word? (No) Mr. Colakovic? (2016 Colakovic, from the scene: How much time do we have left? You have one minute, like group time, and Mr. Colakovic has four minutes. Then Mr. Colakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26323	Dear President, honourable ministers with fellow Members, honourable MPs, above all, I would like to express a great satisfaction and commendation at the expense of Minister Krstic, for respecting the MPs, regardless of access to certain issues and in general the National Assembly. In the end, I would like to say that we will support the Budget Law, first of all because we understand and realize that the Prime Minister, Mr Ivica Dacic, indicated in an exposé in August this kind of approach to the 2014 budget. Secondly, because social isolation remained at the level of 2013 and because the government showed responsible social policy and protected, to the extent possible at this time, the poorest citizens of our country. And thirdly, because the government understood and realized that the majority of the pension population was poor and in this respect they did not enter the acquired pension rights of pensioners and because they were provided funds for all 12 pensions and other pension rights, provided in general for 2014. For these reasons and the reasons that we presented in the debate, our parliamentary group will support the 2014 Budget Act, the PIO Fund decision and the National Employment Service decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26324	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 69. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. The remaining time is nine minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26325	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here's the end of the first part of the budget debate. The sequel will be Thursday. I fully understand the MPs, especially from the former regime, who want to make things worse than it is. It's kind of a political struggle, but I can also give recognition to government representatives who are introducing a new practice, which is that they don't make the situation more beautiful than it is. It is certainly one newspaper in the Serbian parliament, because the Budget Law is one of the most important, if not the most important law that one assembly makes. During this debate, I heard a lot of criticism about the budget. I don't want to talk about late wits, that would be completely pointless, but also me as the MPs a little bit irritated, which is that my fellow MPs, often, in the heat of their struggle, say what the law doesn't say, what they might like to write in the laws proposed by this government. I'd ask all my colleagues to speak, tell the truth, even if they keep one piece of the truth, and they only say what they don't like, but they really do exist in the Budget Act. One of his colleagues said first 200m for release, then 600m euros, etc. There are no means to lay off, there is no programme targeted exchange rate of the dinar, that it will be 117, so 127, as everyone knows our exchange rate is formed based on supply and demand. It's very important to pay off the budget, and I can see the minister is sticking to what I asked him for, which is that things are worse than they are. These are the meanings of one projection for the worst possible option, and I think that the course will continue to be stable, I see no economic reason why it would not be in the next period, especially now that two-thirds of the imports are covered by exports, so that some more of the signs coming from abroad and not related to loans and debts, the balance of payments between the Republic of Serbia and the rest of the world are fully balanced. There were many stories about the Public Procurement Act, so someone asked why the budget envisioned 10% more than in the previous year, does this mean that the Public Procurement Act is wrong. This law on public procurement is the best Serbia has ever had. In the next period, we will achieve some not bad foreign laws, but some foreign laws that some have used to correct, but the law has achieved that purpose, which is that we are slowly moving towards that European public procurement average in the shortened procedure, which is 5%. And what's good about the Public Procurement Act, which is also important for the Budget Law, is that there are no more contract annexes, and that those who abuse the law abuse it because of these contract annexes, because they've been putting their own pockets together, as allegedly the best bidders, and then the annexes have been the multiple worst and those who fall under the Public Procurement Act should be aware that their private interests are protected by those who have become completely illegal on state money. There were stories about Etihad and Er Serbia. I can't understand why something can be and what it's really a problem. So let's rent that plane. I ask the question – what about the plane that was supposed to be bought on the lease, and it was never bought, and the funds were spent? That's what representatives of the former regime don't want to talk about. Is it true that the lease is paid three thousand and four hundred dollars or euros? It probably is. But you see how dishonest he is, that MP who said it. That's what the citizens of Serbia pay for. That's not what Serbian citizens pay for, it's what the passengers on the plane pay for, because no one rented a plane to drive empty in the sky of Serbia or the world. So these are all literally malicious accusations, whether out of jealousy, whether out of envy, whether out of ignorance, whether because of the failed policy they represented in an earlier period. A further question arises about the fate of JAT, and no one will say from colleagues who voted with both hands when JAT was in charge and that this really came back from the Serbian budget, meaning, from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The question of public debt can be raised if it is known that most of the funding from the budget goes to the Pension Fund, the Health Protection Fund, that most of the debt will go to the infrastructure, not to the ongoing public spending, which is a bottomless hole and investment. Is the problem for the former regime's MPs that will finally end Corridor 10, which they have been struggling with for 12 years and more than half will be completed in three years. A fellow MP rebelled over Kostolac, and I'd say there's no campaign there. Is it a problem that the new thermal power plant will be built in the Kostolc? Let him be anywhere in Serbia. That's six million kilowatts a day times 300 working days, so figure out how much this affects Serbia's gross income. I can't quite understand that someone's talking about 140,000 extra workers without accepting their share of responsibility for that surplus staff in the state administration. I can't accept it as a fact why wouldn't someone pay a profit tax of over 60,000 dinars, to which fellow MPs are courting? I can't accept that this government is guilty of knowing for the first time how many employees we have in the state administration and how many are supported from the RS budget, so now the problem is that suddenly there's a surplus. That can't be a problem. Don't be afraid of Serbian citizens with cataclysm anymore. None of the cataclysms happened, which you predicted, and as you say, we're half-term, and you predicted it for the first three months of your term. The cataclysms are gone. We won't allow any cataclysm. Don't let anyone tell us that someone's worried about selling computers because it's supposed to be no longer a luxury asset, and the washing machines are at 20%, the electric gas savings are at 20%, and many other technical goods are at 20%, so I don't see what the big problem is right now that's going to affect citizens' living standards. If someone has a salary of 60,000, don't spend it all... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... on the supply of food, but in that worst version there will be no 10% as some predict but only 2% on the total salary. That 2% have been extorted and I can only say that because of the way this budget was made, the government's relations with the budget, the government's attitude towards Serbian citizens in the voting day will vote for this budget.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26326	Replica, MP Borislav Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26327	It's not a problem at the thermal power plant either, it's not a problem when someone in Serbia gets a job, that we should all celebrate. That's a fact. The problem is how you do it. The problem is that you have designed this budget and what it will bring to the citizens of Serbia. The problem is, when budget cuts are planned, and we're instructions for numbers, ranging from 60 to 100 grand, because your ministers say that, not because we're saying that. So it says in your budget, Mr. Arsic, and that is a fact. The funds are defined for this, for the first time, and it is no problem to record how many people in the public sector are doing and no one has said anything against it, nor against the thermal power plant, nor against the employment of people, nor the persecution and arrest of criminals, not political opponents. It's all right. Our problem is how you do it and what your results are and what will be the result of these measures that you will apply. It can't be a good result if there's nothing that promotes the development and growth of the economy. There can be no result if the crisis is imposed on citizens over the back. It can't be a result when you didn't provide for further employment, but only for non-employment, i.e. for firing people. That's the problem, that's what this is about. If someone has a salary of over 60,000, we have proven to you very effectively, through arguments, that these savings are 50% less than what you give to "Serbiagas", "Electro-privreds" and other businesses. So it's marketing. Pure marketing. Our goal is for one with 10,000, 15,000, 20,000 dinars to come to as much pay as possible and that man has as much pay as possible. In the meantime, their children are hired to have a perspective on where to work. (President: Time. This budget does not allow. Unfortunately, this budget is, in this sense, terribly bad for citizens, extremely unfavourable and with no perspective for their development.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26328	Replica Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26329	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this money that has been mentioned is intended to restructure these enterprises that have not been restructured for 12 years, not for firing workers and compensation for these layoffs. Does anyone mind that part, now already former social property, and now state, is sold at the price at which it really costs on the market? Let me remind you how privatisation was done. The base was accounting value, with all the write-offs it had, not market value. In 99% of the cases, the market price is 10 times higher than the bookkeeping price, so that would be a lot. The initial price is 30% of the bookkeeping. Consider the simplest economic logic possible. If you buy something at a much cheaper price than it costs on the market, are you going to invest in it, or are you going to rip it apart and sell the piece by piece and make a profit? Anyone who deals with the economy will do this another. It's not the one who did it. The problem is those who have written such a law and allowed it and treated it to some who have done so. We don't want to talk about the Fireman Meat Industry, who had military claims and owed funds. The funds interested 0.2% of the daily MIP. That interest could not be compensated on interest from the military's claim. One minister refused to sign consent to the debt beating, so I should say his name and last name, until interest funds had eaten MIP's assets and military claims. (President: Time. We don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-04-0.u26330	According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint general and uniform review of the draft law and the proposals for decisions referred to in points 12, 13 and 14 of the agenda. We're working on Thursday at 10:00 p.m.
