ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26890	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear People's MPs, today here with my co-workers from the ministry I have a duty and an obligation to present to you a set of laws from the Ministry of Transport's office. These eight legal solutions de facto represent the whole of our ministry, because we have a section in the area of roads, railways, water transport, air traffic, and in principle they are all those areas covered by the Ministry of Transport. Mr. Vice President read a team of people he called today, but it's about the entire management structure of the Ministry of Traffic. Since someone has to do those running jobs today, today with me Mr. Dejan Lasica, on my left, Assistant Minister of Railway Traffic Mrs. Mirjana Trifunovic, Assistant Minister of Water Traffic Dr. Demir Hadzic, Head of the Ministry of Traffic for Road Safety and Mr. Sinisa Trkulja, Assistant Director of the Railways Directorate. Very soon, we will be joined by Mr Miodrag Poledica State Secretary and Mr Milutin Popovic Assistant Minister for Air Traffic. Like I said, there are eight legal solutions ahead of you. It's not my idea here today to read explanations or to convince explanations, but to take a brief look at the key elements of these legal solutions and simply draw your attention to why we bring these laws and what exactly is the essence of these laws and why it's important for the National Assembly to adopt them. As you all know, these legal projects entered the assembly procedure a few months ago, that is, in the period before I was elected minister and I want to thank Mr. Milutin Mrkonjic here at the assembly benches, which was headed by the ministry at the time these legal solutions entered the assembly procedure. The first proposal is the draft safety and interoperability law of the railway. When it comes to this legal project, I honestly intended to return it from the congregation procedure and try to find another term for word-interoperability with the idea that legal projects should be found in front of the MPs, which, first of all, contain words that are, to say, part of our language that we use in regular use. However, I must tell you, despite the best will we have had in the ministry and consultation with a large number of people, we have failed because the word - interoperability de facto was incontrovertible and I would like to look back at this interoperability at the beginning of this exhibition, because I know that it causes a lot of controversy between the MPs and the committee itself, but also before the board, there was a question of why we didn't find any other word and what this interoperability means, and I want to say that interoperability in the broadest sense is a set of measures and technical solutions that allow for more efficient operation of rail traffic, especially in international frameworks. We have a situation today that railways and railway companies do not only operate within their own country, but also operate in other countries, that one locomotive and one railway composition start their journey in one country, continue in the second and end in the third and in all of this works with the use of different languages, different regulations, different signals, and, above all, different power supply in electricity networks and applications and sets of all these technical measures, procedures that can enable one rail composition to carry out its traffic in several countries that function, I repeat, with different languages, different technical elements, signalling and electricity, a whole set of these measures is called interoperability and that is something that is a trend across Europe. It's something that's a trend in our entire environment and that's something we need to adapt to. If all the railways tried to unify that system, that system would become too expensive. There should be huge infrastructure works, huge investment in Europe, and since in this time of crisis that is rocking the whole world, the whole of Europe has no means to do so then it has resorted to these procedures and these rules that allow the same railway composition to recognise all these different procedures, different signalling and that it has the possibility to operate on all these regimes in different countries, including the different power supply regime. Why does it matter to us? We in one segment have a unified system. It's a unified system with countries in the environment. First of all, I think of the countries of the former Yugoslavia because it was once a single state, a single railway. We all speak the languages we understand. We have the same power supply, same signalling. I repeat, we were once part of a unique system. However, as we step out of that framework, we come across completely other content, completely other mechanisms, and we have to adapt because the time that is before us imposes it. We won't be able to protect even our market in a near future. Our tracks will be able to use other foreign operators. In line with the EU directives, we will have to open our railways and allow some other domestic operators, and especially foreign operators to use these railways and for this reason we need to unify the system. Tomorrow, perhaps in a good scenario, our railway transport company will also leave Belgrade and end its journey somewhere in Germany, Austria or any other country in Europe and this locomotive and our compositions must recognize all the systems they face on their journey. This legal project contains a whole series of security measures. It was brought 15 years ago by the law on safety in rail traffic. A lot happened in the meantime. A lot has changed in the meantime. This law adapts to these new solutions. This law adapts to European safety directives in rail transport. This law puts in its first effect a reduction in the number of emergency events, i.e. accidents in rail traffic, prevention and monitoring and regulation in situations where, God forbid, such accidents happen. This law also foresees the formation, or definition of a new body for security, but because of the time in which we try as a state to rationally use all the resources we have and not to make new costs, the proposal of our ministry is not to form a new body for security and not to form a new organisational form, but to carry out the safety tasks of the already existing Railway Directorate which performs the tasks of the regulatory body and of the railway licensing body. I call on MPs to support this bill because it is essential for further restructuring of total rail traffic in Serbia. We need to improve that system compared to what we have today. As you know, in the 2014 draft budget more, almost half of the Ministry of Transport budget is foreseen from the railway subsidy. Railways must experience a serious restructuring process. By the end of this year, we'll be making one corporation within the Railways, making a new infrastructure company, separateing the second passenger and freight transport company, and that's just the first step. The infrastructure company in future should grow into a separate public company that could be called – Serbia railways and these railways Serbia will soon provide, I repeat, services and other operators, charge this transport service through our railways and additionally finance projects in the area of infrastructure maintenance from these funds. On the other hand, our State Railways, or Railway Transport Company, will be only one of the operators who will have to enter this competition with both domestic competition and foreign competition. In a third step, a passenger transport company will be set up which, as in the entire environment and throughout Europe, will in a certain way subsidise through the compensation for the transported passenger, and freight transport will, as in all countries in the environment, become a fully economic category. In order to move forward with this restructuring of railways, already the 2014 budget provides for a reduction of railway subsidies, in the years ahead of us this reduction of subsidies, this subsidy reduction policy will continue, but in order to go in that direction, we need to adopt exactly this legal solution that will allow our railways to become competitive, but also create conditions for this market to open up and to have additional investment in infrastructure from the opening of that market. The next law is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads. In these changes and additions, a few things are proposed. What is, in all likelihood, from this debate that I have seen also some amendments that have been submitted, most interesting and significant, it is obvious that the amendments to this law propose a provision that the fuel supply stations, i.e. gas stations, become an integral part of the public road, and not as yet following the content. What does that mean? This means that during the construction of new public roads, in the planning process and in the expropriation process, there will be no expropriation of only that part of the public road as it has been, but in the beginning there will be sites and stations for future petrol stations, the state will make expropriation for these points, they will become part of the public road, remain in state ownership, after which the company will be responsible for maintaining these routes, that is, the organisation and management of these routes, or the state, will bid on these locations, and will issue bids to oil companies for a period of 10, 20 or 30 years, as envisaged, and from that state will continuously collect income, which through travel fees, which is from the lease of land itself. Personally, I think it's a good solution that provides several elements. One, it provides additional security in traffic, because we'll be able as a state and as a society to absolutely control those points where the gas stations will be located. So when we control where they are, we find the best traffic solutions, how they'll get involved afterwards on public roads. Two, we provide additional funding for public roads and their maintenance, and I remind you that our public roads are in pretty bad shape. I must say, this provision is deeply anti-corruption. When I say that, I'd like to remind you what it's been like so far. We have a public road, on this public road from left and right, we have a wave of private land owners who enter agreements and arrangements with oil companies, pressure both on local self-government and on the competent ministries to define their headquarters stations for gas stations and then, without any criteria, new gas stations appear, where in one, for me, a pretty mystified way, determines whose land the future gas station will be located. What does it look like in practice? We say - a gas station is needed. At a distance of several hundred meters, my location or location of Mr. Lassica is located, not to use anyone else, and someone has a discretionary right to say whether the gas station will be on my plot or on Mr. Lassica's plot. If he says he's on my plot, then the value of my plot's hectares increases to a million euros, and his remains at about 5,000 to 10,000 euros, depending on the location. I think it's a very discriminatory method, that this proposal, that it be state property, that the state in the places where it is estimated that a gas station needs to be expropriated. The expropriation is done at prices that are the same as public road, that it remains the state's income, that the state collects that income in continuity and returns it back to its citizens through public road maintenance, that it is perfectly correct, that it is legitimate and that it is deeply anti-corruption. Let's not forget, we're finally going to have an orderly system of public stations, gas stations, because it seems to me that we're one of the few states where at this point there's no correctness about what distance gas stations are at. We have them even about a mile or two, somewhere we have more than 30 kilometers, while in the whole environment, especially in the EU countries, it's an orderly system, where gas stations are known to be about 30 kilometers away. Once when I was on my way from Budapest to Belgrade, I was just counting, so from Budapest to our border, that's about 200 kilometers, I counted six gas stations, and from our border to Belgrade, which is equal to 200 kilometers, 11 in one variant, 12 in another. You see that we are exaggerating, which causes additional road safety, and it does not generate any additional revenue for budget users, eventually creates for oil companies, which in the end is not our first interest. This law provides for a few more things, to be watered and, according to the law, to be produced, and these are again some waterways that can also be used to supply gas and other things. In some countries in Europe, milk and milk are delivered through these products at shorter distances, where they are treated as infrastructure systems and enter into the planning process and one planning documentation that is fully consolidated with road construction planning documentation. In line with European directives, this law speaks of minimum security conditions that must be met by the tunnel. So far, the issue has been defined by some of the acts given by the Ministry of Transport's Ministry, i.e. earlier infrastructure. This law proposes that this solution be changed and that from now on, the matter be defined by the government's regulation, because it is a matter that needs to be brought into line with several ministries. The law also defines emergency transport as a specific type of transport carried out both in the internal and international context and therefore defines the administrative procedures that should speed up the whole procedure. The third legislative project is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation. I know that many in this hall, especially in the general public, are wondering why Serbia adopts the Law on Maritime Navigation when there is no sea? The reason for this lies in the fact that, regardless of we have no sea, we have about 5,000 sailors working on foreign ships and supporting their families and making significant incomes for this country as well. In order for them to be able to do this job, we need to have the Law on Maritime Navigation that fully defines the procedures for their licensing and all the permits they need to carry out that job. The main reasons for amending the existing law are the promotion and protection of the rights of our seamen through compliance with the Maritime Labour Convention, which was ratified in 2012. The most important provisions in this law are the fact that we introduce licensing agencies that intervene in the employment of sailors. We have come to this by following the experiences that our sailors have in the process of providing jobs and agencies that provide them with, which in many cases do not comply with our expectations and what practice is all over the world. Our sailors often do not have health insurance, insurance in case of accidents, that some call benefits for their employment are charged by seamen instead of employers, so that we predict licensing agencies that intercede in employment and they will have to have contracts with shipping companies where they send sailors and will charge their services from these shipping companies in the future, not by sailors. They will have to have mandatory insurance policies and I repeat, and that is most important to us, their services will be charged by companies and not by sailors. Questions related to the working time of the seamen, working and living conditions on board have also been addressed, the procedure for authorising health institutions to carry out medical examinations of the seamen, as they are very specific reviews that are in line with the entire set of international regulations and, finally, these amendments to the Law in Article 30 define the work of the centre or relax the existing provision of the law adopted two years ago and define the gradual release into the work of these training centres which are not currently in the Republic of Serbia. Our sailors are for these licenses to go and to exercise those rights abroad, mostly in Croatia and Hungary. I know you've all received an e-mail from an organization or an association of sailors that points to the fact that perhaps these trainings could be achieved in Serbia at our Military Academy. I must say that it is not known to the Ministry and our water transport sector that such an organisation and such an association exists. We tried to get in touch with the people of that association and that organization, but on the phone number delivered to us and to all of you MPs no one answers. I want to say that there is a reason why two years ago, by amending the law, that this training process is planned to be done in the way that it has been done so far. First of all, this is due to the fact that by 2011 we had in practice a large number of irregularities that resulted in 250 criminal charges filed by the Ministry of Serbia for violations of laws and other regulations in this process and that we were very close to losing any possibility that our sailors were licensed and that they were working on ships around the world in this time that is ahead of us. These very days we expect a new inspection of the competent European organisations that need to see whether we have defined these procedures to be licensed to carry out the work of sailors, captains and all other segments that define the work of sailors. We stay on the solution that is in the existing law. We predict that a two-step training centre is introduced into licensing, that this is done in a double step, that they gradually introduce licenses for different levels of seamen's work. We're not in a position to entrust this job to the Military Academy, because the Military Academy has to license the job. In the end, what is most important, we have obtained the consent of this legal solution and the Ministry of Defence, which absolutely understands the matter we are dealing with and the problems we are facing. So, the Military Academy, unfortunately, is not at this moment able to complete this process and present itself in accordance with European regulations as a training centre, but can be licensed for it. I repeat, we have no sea but we have 5,000 sailors and the adoption of this law is a condition that these sailors work on ships around the world. The next proposal for a law confirming the European agreement on the main internal waterways is of international importance. I'm going to speed up now that I've been a little bit longer on these previous legal solutions. The most important reason for confirming this AGN agreement is that this Republic of Serbia will accept technical parameters for the classification of European internal waterways made up of the UN. We've already done that for all our rail lines, for the travel network. This creates legal assumptions that national legislation complies with the requirements prescribed by AGN. This agreement has ratified 17 states so far, we would be 18 countries, and we believe that it is very important for the future of water traffic which is a great potential for this country, I think, has not been fully used so far. We have two proposals for a ratification agreement in the area of rail traffic with the Russian Federation and Ukraine. I wouldn't talk about them much. They are in line with the good political relations we have with Russia and Ukraine and they represent a roof mechanism of co-operation between our countries in the area of rail traffic, creating conditions for our railway companies to co-operate and to achieve some preferential forms of co-operation. I repeat, this is a roof agreement that creates conditions for co-operation, and everything else is a matter of commercial contracts and agreements between our railway companies. We also have air traffic - Australia. We have air traffic agreements with a large number of countries. With Australia, we had as the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia some old agreements. I repeat, and this is a roof agreement that should allow two very specific things, that "Er Serbia" in Kocher's arrangement with "Etihad Airways" works on the relations of Belgrade-Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi-Pert, Abu Dhabi-Sidney and Abu Dhabi-Brizzbain and that "Virjin Australia" also participates in Kocher with "Etihad Airways" in relations between Australia and Abu Dhabi and Belgrade. What does de facto mean? Of course, it does not mean that the Air Serbia plane, from Belgrade, will fly to Australia, but means that any passenger from Serbia will be able to go to any AIR Serbian office, buy a plane ticket both with that plane ticket and with a J code at our national air carrier, to drive to Australia with a precedent in Abudabi. This, of course, is primarily good for our airline, but it is good for passengers, because it reduces to a certain extent the costs of their journey and makes their journey more efficient, because there are no elements and problems related to luggage and anything else that can follow the journey to such a long destination. Finally, we have an international road traffic agreement with Slovakia. The agreement was signed on the visit of President Nikolic Bratislava in 2013. It has been negotiated for a long time by our ministry, with a resolution ministry in Slovakia, and it allows for a large degree of liberalisation, primarily in freight traffic, i.e. it will allow traffic between Serbia and Slovakia to take place without permission in the bilateral transit and transport of things to motor vehicles whose largest mass, including the trailer, is not exceeding six tonnes, which is a major shift compared to the system of permits we have so far. All in all, one set of eight legal solutions that I call upon you to support, to lead the debate, to hear the opinion of the MPs. On these legal solutions was one number of amendments, some of these amendments were accepted as a ministry, but we are absolutely willing, absolutely ready to hear again in the debate on amendments by applicants of these amendments. If these solutions make these legal projects more efficient, we can accept them. Thank you for your attention. I apologize for the delay, and we are here to hear the opinions of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26891	I thank Minister Antic. I'm asking if the committees want a word. No, I don't. ) Whether the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word. Yeah. ) The word has a National MP named Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26892	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the proposal for a law confirming the European agreement on the main internal waterways of international importance, the ACN abbreviations. The agreement was concluded and signed by several European countries in 1996. We've been waiting for this to come to us, or ahead of us, for 17 years. That's why I'm talking about this agreement because I come from a town where the Tis River flows. In this agreement, three of our rivers are covered, Danube, Sava and Tis. What's the difference between these three rivers? Two have international shipping status, and one only interstate navigation status, that is the Tisa River. As far as the Tisa River is concerned, it is one of the largest or largest tributaries of the Danube. In its course of 1300 and a few kilometers, it passes through five European countries. It springs in the Carpathians in Ukraine, flows through Romania, through Slovakia, through Hungary and with us, flows to the Old Slankman in the Danube. Tisa is one of the typical flat-rate rivers, which passes through the territories of 11 Vojvodjan municipalities and Senta is among them, and it also separates Banat from Backa, because it is the natural border between Banat and Backa. In the European Agreement ahead of us, the most important waterways of international importance are indicated here, and this agreement marks the waterway of the Tisa River from the mouth sector, meaning from Slankmen to Segedin, as the E80-01 branch on the main route of the E80 waterway. Also defined are two ports that are of particular European importance, that is P80-01-02 near Senta, and Segedin P80-01 which has a length of a river of 180km. In our country, the route of this river is about 164, 165 kilometers. The very importance of this agreement is also recognised in the Strategy for the Development of Railway, Road, Water, Air and Inter-Modular Transport of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted in 2008, and I think the period is valid until 2015. If we just watch the Tisa River, the hydroregulatory of this river was made in the 19th or 20th century. This hydro regulation has created a hydrological regime that's good enough to have good waterability of the river across our country. With these shops done in the 19th and 20th centuries in the Vojvodjan region, this river is shorted by 200 kilometers of current 164 kilometers, all 164 kilometers of water. With the dam at Novi Becej, this dam is with the ship's translator, the airworthiness has been further improved. So we have enough depth of the river to float if we're looking at a whole year of 365 days, 300 days of opportunity. It's quite a difference if we look at our second Sava river, because it doesn't have so many days of airworthiness, but it's already international, under the assumption that it has an international water status since 2004. So the Tisa River meets its standards with all valid conditions to be regulated as an international river with international water status. The Tise River's shipping legal system has been regulated by an interstate agreement concluded between the Federative Republic of Yugoslavia and the People's Republic of Hungary in 1955. So, under this agreement, those shipping facilities that have the flags of the two states that signed this agreement can either use the river or sail this river, from mouth to flow. But other ships with other flags, meaning other countries, unfortunately cannot sail just in agreement with the Ministry of Traffic. A number of demands have been sent by these municipalities located by the Tisa River and several businessmen, here I'm going to list one of the largest businesses at the port of Sainta. Those organisations dealing with tourism have, therefore, made demands or several times brought in to make this river international, to be an international waterway. If we're just looking at the port in Senti, she's in a good geographical position. The river is waterway to the port itself, but the port leads to a railway road, and we have road traffic, so we have all the infrastructure features. Unfortunately, due to the conditionality of sailing, this port is not in an equal position with the rest of our ports that are in our country. In addition to the goods transport on Tisa, I think we have exceptional potential for developing nautical tourism. That's why I'm saying this because in the last few years I know that in Hungary they have introduced some lines, seasonal lines by boat of high tourist class so-called. A class cruiser, which makes Budapest a few times its navigational path. This proves that interest and possibility, we have a significant opportunity to improve tourism on the basis of water traffic. To improve water transport, a commission is formed between the two countries, between our country and Hungary, which has one economic co-operation. They have sent their demands several times because they have a mutual desire for this river to become of international importance. In line with these requirements, and based on the requirements of local self-government that are next to Tisa, the 11 local self-governments, the government of the AP Vojvodina, launched legal procedure in accordance with the responsibilities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in October 2012 to establish free international navigation on the Tisa River sector through our country, through the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, the process was halted by the ministry of traffic with a reason that the establishment of international navigation requires the prior signing of this agreement. So, one question for Mr. Minister – with the signing of an agreement ahead of us whether all obstacles will be removed for the Tisa River to be or to receive international water status. Of course, the SVM MPs will support this bill and will vote for this law in the voting day. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26893	The word is made by MP Radoslav Komlenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26894	President-in-Office, ministers, members of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia who follow the transfer of sessions through small screens, today is on the agenda of a set of eight laws: Proposal for a Law on Safety and Interoperability of Railways; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Public Roads; Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Maritime Navigation; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the European Agreement on Main Internal Paths of International Matters; Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Co-operation in the area of rail traffic; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Australia on the Republic of Serbia's Agreement on the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. I will refer only to a few laws, and I must start by saying that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote for these bills. The draft law on safety and interoperability of railways regulates the conditions that allow the railways in Serbia to be safe, in order to ensure a smooth movement of rail traffic. We must remind ourselves that the current Law on Safety in Railway Traffic has been brought by the SRJ Assembly at a session of the Greater Republic since 3 December 1998 and at a session of the Greater Citizens since 4 December 1998. In the application of this law, problems related to the difficulty of overcoming rail traffic, as well as problems in establishing international rail traffic, have been identified, so that a new law has to be adopted in line with relevant legal acts in the EU, in the area of rail traffic. The problems this law needs to address are the following, since matter is related to the safety of rail traffic in certain areas, and before regulation, and certain segments have not been made, by adopting a new law, these shortcomings will be addressed. We also heard from the minister of traffic that a new body will be formed, an infrastructure company. I wanted to do a digression and say that our infrastructure is pretty bad in the railways and that if we want to reconstruct it, that we have a rail with two tracks and an electrified rail, that trains reach a speed of at least 160 kilometers per hour, it is necessary to invest about 4.5m euros. I would also connect with the People's Republic of China, which has fast tracks and up to 350 kilometers which is relevant in this part and its experiences can be of great importance to us. Another problem addressed by this law is the lack of the authority of the Railway Directorate, for the issue of certain permits and certificates, as well as the adoption of sublegal regulations necessary for the smooth and safe execution of rail traffic and the definition of the near conditions and the obtaining of the said licences and certificates. The adoption of a new law will address issues related to the safety and interoperability of railways and European standards, in this form of traffic, is the only way to address the problem, which are recognizable in the current state of rail traffic. Once again, I would like to remind you that the JS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. To implement this law, it is very important to provide additional funding from the Republic of Serbia's budget. The adoption of this law will have a positive impact on all participants in the process of rail traffic, carriers, companies, other legal entities. In the economy of the Republic of Serbia in general, especially the railway industry, manufacturers and repairers, and other actors in the area of rail traffic, where there will be an increase of interest in rail transport, both in the Republic of Serbia and in those European countries that have an interest in the development of rail traffic across our territory, with the possibility of competitiveness of our companies on the European market. It is another beautiful opportunity for us in the economy, and for domestic investors to step up and increase the volume of work or to start a new business on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The JS parliamentary group will support this bill in the voting day. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads, the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group, supports this bill, among other things, because, in the proposed amendments to that law, the fuel supply station law becomes an integral part of the public road, providing additional resources to the manager of state roads on the territory of the Republic of Serbia and thus the operator will charge much more money on the basis of the rent of another land, which will be used in the future by the Public Road Manager, as provided for in this Bill proposal. I will also refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation. In 2006, the International Labour Organization adopted the Convention on the Labour of Seamen, which has recognised the so far. a ratification of 38 Member States of the International Labour Organisation, which entered into force in June 2012. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the Law confirming the International Maritime Labour Organisation on 18 October 2011. In accordance with the Maritime Labour Convention, an appropriate addition of the law has been carried out, certain questions relating to the working time of the seamen, obligations and acquisition of the board with the schedule of working time on board the ship, and working and living conditions on board the ship. We just heard from the traffic minister that in Serbia there are about 5,000 sailors working on ships around the world. The proposal for a law is a procedure for authorising a medical institution for the medical examination of the seafarers. The bill will have a positive impact on Serbian citizens boarding as crew members on seaboats and thus on the budget of the Republic of Serbia, given that the seafarers deliver a significant part of their earnings through the remittances to their families in the Republic of Serbia. This bill regulates who can participate in the part of ownership in the employment of seamen on domestic ships and ships of foreign state belongings in the manner prescribed by the Labour Convention. He can charge his services from the employer himself and he can't, like so far, what it's like to charge directly from the seaman, as is the case today. To date, interventions are carried out by various agencies that are in the largest number of cases in direct conflict with the standards set by the International Labour Organisation and these are, not to say blurry jobs, where agencies even charged oral interview services in the employment of seamen of 200 or more euros. Also, only a few agencies had concluded a business co-operation agreement with maritime companies. Currently, no agency meets this requirement of the International Convention operating in the Republic of Serbia, which deals with maritime employment. By meeting these conditions, Serbian citizens on seaboats will be able to be hired again. At this point, there are no clear parameters for controlling the work of these agencies. In this bill of law, I would also point out very important if the licensing of medical institutions authorised to carry out medical examinations by seamen was envisaged. The very process of reviewing health institutions will require the financial investment of these institutions in order to successfully carry out the work and refers to a course in maritime medicine by authorised specialists in medical institutions. In Serbia, there is currently no medical institution but the Republic of Serbia will institutionally implement the Institute for Medicine of Work based on the territory of the Republic of Serbia at the request of the competent health ministry. So far, the sailors have paid about 10,000 dinars per review, and we've heard ourselves that they didn't even have insurance. The application of this law will have an effect on the creation of new operators on the market and on market competition. In the end, I must stress that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Now I will also refer to two agreements that I believe are vital to the Republic of Serbia – a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the area of joint traffic, of course, the JS parliamentary group will also support these laws. The Republic of Serbia attaches great importance directly to international rail traffic between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation. Lately, the intensity of rail traffic between the two countries has been on a slight rise, but it is estimated that the ministry of traffic is not yet enough. It is necessary to establish direct co-operation between the two countries, i.e. legally regulate relations in rail traffic between the two countries, as its railway undertakings, which would detailed the conditions for the direct dispatch of goods between the two countries. We in Unity Serbia see in this agreement a great opportunity for our agricultural producers and the transport of goods, i.e. agricultural products by rail in the Russian Federation. I must remind myself that 25-30 years ago, especially the villages of the Moravia region of Konjuh, Bela Voda, Velika Drenova, Milutovac, Sponja, which cover the municipalities of Kruševac and Trstenik from where I come from, were known for the production of fruit and railway breakdowns into the Russian market. A large economic profit has been achieved in this market not only for agricultural producers but also for the country. That is why I note once again that we from Unique Serbia see the great possibility of transporting agricultural products by rail to this market because the transport of goods in this way is certainly cheaper. I must further note that this agreement was signed in Moscow on 10 April 2013 on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The agreement was signed by Milan Bacevic, the minister of economic resources, mining and spatial planning of the Republic of Serbia and, on behalf of the Russian Federation government, Nikolaj Asov, assistant minister of transport of the Russian Federation. Once again, I would like to stress that in the day of voting, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote in favour of the bill. Finally, I will refer to the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on co-operation in the area of rail traffic. To say that this agreement is of great importance to our country is the same as an agreement with the Russian Federation and that everything I said about the previous agreement applies to this agreement with Ukraine. To repeat, this is a great opportunity for our agricultural producers to place their products on the Ukrainian market. I will just point out that this agreement was signed in Belgrade on 6 June 2013, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the agreement was signed by Milutin Mrkonjic, then the minister of traffic of the Republic of Serbia, and, on behalf of the Office of Ministers of Ukraine Vladimir Kozak, Minister of Infrastructure of Ukraine. At the very end of my presentation to point out that the JS MP group in the voting day will support a set of all the drafts of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26895	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Veličković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26896	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a law on the safety and interoperability of railways in front of MPs of the National Assembly, the domestic legislation agrees with modern solutions and seeks to move forward with time in this important segment of traffic infrastructure. The existing regulations governing the safety of railways, primarily the Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic, which was adopted in 1998, are obsolete and no longer meet the needs of the development of this branch of traffic. This is especially because the mass of sublegal regulations passed on the basis of these and earlier applicable laws was passed 30 and more years ago. In addition, the need for legislative intervention stems from the fact that a new Law on Railways has recently been adopted with which provisions need to be brought into line and regulations governing the safety of rail traffic. Meanwhile, changes that have taken place with regard to the development of rail transport and the interoperability of domestic railway infrastructures and railway undertakings in international rail transport, as well as the need to comply with EU rules, require legislative intervention in this part as well. This applies primarily to the implementation of technical specifications for interoperability, regulation of areas, investigation of accidents, incidents, recognition of safety certificates valid in EU Member States, the introduction of a register of railway vehicles and infrastructures, the application of national rules providing rail safety in the European Commission and others. In a frontal way, the harmonisation of relevant domestic regulations with EU and Member States achieves multiple effects, provides a uniform procedure for all railway undertakings and thus facilitates access to the rail services market both domestically and internationally. Unique criteria and principles for defining the safety of rail traffic are introduced, the body responsible for investigations of railway accidents, incidents, etc. is established. All of the above is particularly important for the reason why the level of safety in rail transport is needed normally and then in fact secure before the upcoming process of restructuring the company operating the railway infrastructure and carrying out rail transport services in the Republic of Serbia begins, as well as the separation of infrastructure management operations from infrastructure maintenance and transport operations themselves. The law defines the division of the rail system into a conventional and rail system of high speeds with a detailed description of each subsystem, the technical specifications of interoperability, the conditions for issuing licences for the use of railway vehicles, the regulation of the keeping of the register of railway vehicles, the terms and conditions for issuing a safety certificate and the management of railway infrastructure, the technical conditions for railway vehicles, the arrangements for the space for passengers, etc., the conditions of control regarding signalling security devices, the regulation and management of traffic, the technical conditions for railway vehicles are laid down, the conditions regarding the professionality and health training of railway workers, the powers and obligations of the body in charge of the investigation of railway accidents and incidents, the internal order of the railways and the safety of railways are laid down in the law. Given that this law makes an inseparable continent with the recently passed Law on Railways and that it is in line with all EU legal assets and that it brings a new approach to resolving the problems arising from the limitations of the rules, and that it introduces modern solutions to the safety of rail traffic, we believe that it should be supported, and the PUPS Group should vote for this law in the day of voting. Mr. Minister, I would personally be happy if the word "interoperability" were replaced even if the Serbian parliament spoke Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26897	The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26898	Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have a law before us that we talked about in May, and here is a colleague of Mrkonjic. On May 8th of this year, I was talking about the Law on Railways, and then Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic said we would adopt this law within a month. He only entered the procedure in July of the month. The summer break passed, a large number of laws passed, and here, which is today the date and the deadline was about September 1st set by many international organisations. If we hadn't passed the Law on Railways and today wasn't this law on interoperability and safety in rail traffic, we'd be a hole in the European carpet or carpet, but the fact is we couldn't travel. I think it is at least sad to have your description, Mr. Minister, that you tell us about what interoperability means in the context of our train travelling beyond Serbia's borders, even our composition will be able to go to Germany. If it were the middle of a 19th century, then we had a horse carriage, in 1850, and some, and in 1856 we got a steam locomotive, that you were the minister of some Pasic government, so you could be proud of something. I'm not saying it's your fault for the state of the railroad, far from it. It's been destroyed for many years. When we talk about safety in rail traffic, it is extremely sincere to say that you are today holding the greatest responsibility for something that can happen. Thanks to many media inscriptions and the desire of the current ruling coalition to hide all its mistakes and incompetence, some of the daily events have forgotten the affairs I would not mention now, because they are pure politics, and this law is more operational. The fact is, in May, we have one problem, a serious security issue, in the railroad. Many may have already forgotten because of these powerful newspaper signs, a tunnel and those problems with injured children and those mothers who made certain statements. You didn't look back today. The then minister, and today a fellow MP, and today's director of the Railways have not even visited the injured. No one ever spoke again. You could have said how many people were injured today. We're adopting a modern safety law in rail traffic, and that's nice. You know perfectly well that many laws are not applicable in our railways and we adopt this because we have to, as well as many other laws, but you know that we will not be able to implement it on the ground. What security we are talking about when today's laws talk about how citizens can't even approach, if they have fields or houses by the railroad, to cut the ambrosia, because the railroad in Serbia has grown so much, and it definitely threatens them. You know the harmful effects of ambrosia. Soon we'll be looking for a metal detector for most of our railroads in the country, and I'm talking about modern law and we're talking about a train that will travel, as you say, for Germany, but also for many other countries. By the Berlin Congress, let's say our diplomatic activity went very well, but whoever follows the railway story knows that we were conditioned to build a railroad to Turkey within three years. I'm talking about 1878. What about many of our stripes today? Is that out of line? I come from Kragujevac and I will mention one thing, which surprised me terribly, about the current director Dragoljub Simonovic. He boasted sometime in the first six months of his term, and today he continued, with a false display of statistics, which is that 18% of the participation in the complete rail traffic is passenger traffic. He praised the increased participation in passenger traffic. Does that mean there's a downturn in economic activity, Mr. Minister? If freight is dropping, no one should brag about it. It is the manipulation of statistics that often comes from the ranks of the ruling coalition. It should be said, since I mentioned that I come from Kragujevac, and bring about this, which is that one of the major business activities is the safe production of Fiat's vehicles. Serbia's railway is not good enough for Fiat. If the government is going to boast that we have introduced competition into rail traffic something that is good, but on the other hand, the government is still the owner of the Railways of Serbia and is responsible for its business, no one responds to the conclusion that Fiat is not satisfied and wants to change, that it has changed its freighter. Today we have other problems in Kragujevac related to the blockage of the railway in Kragujevac. We can talk about that at the end of the day, Fiat had to provide a spring crossing to Kragujevac and finance what he had as a problem passing through the city center. That we are not yet talking about this security, that in many Serbian cities we have a security problem because the railway has not been moved, because no investment is foreseen. When we talk about investment, Mr. Minister, you're responsible for the 18 billion dinars that the Railways pay each year, most of which goes to pay. Can you answer what the state is getting for that favor? Serbian citizens pay for railways and the SPS is known for buying social peace. You're not the only ones who did this, but the fact that there's no idea, no record of what work was done by the Railways has received 18 billion. When we talk about security, since this law talks about it the most, to be honest, Mr. Minister, I don't know how you sleep when you know the railroad doesn't have a safety certificate, no license. It's like driving an unregistered car in road traffic, and you don't have a driver's license. Do you know how much punishment it is for a legal person or for a Serbian citizen if he drives an unregistered car and has no license? That's the situation in our railroad, and you are as a representative of the government primarily in charge of this portfolio. We want you to tell us if you're aware of the responsibility. The fact is, rail traffic is the safest in the world. One according to which is a fatal relationship, and one to three and a half thousand in injuries, but that shouldn't relax you, Mr. Minister. I don't want any trouble, I don't want Serbian citizens. We're talking about a law that's modern. That's how you introduced him to us. You told us it was something that was good for us, and you didn't tell us that this law was supposed to be passed along with the Law on Railways, if not before. We had a huge legal vacuum. There may be little luck that the railways are slow to implement everything, so we were lucky that there weren't any excesses. The 1998 law is almost inapplicable with that railway law we passed. We're adopting some acts that are contrary to each other. That's what we warned you in May of the month, when we adopted the Law on Railways, that you shouldn't have separated him. You had no argument. Such a legal proposal, you have brought nothing new that must have been an explanation that we've waited so long. Simply, the execution of this current government, of dealing with itself. You know how much we've been doing with the government's reconstruction. That also puts us in trouble in international communication, including that train that travels to Germany so proudly. The fact is, this law is completely consistent and prescribed. The fact is that this law, along with the Law on Railways, has also been envisaged by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement since two years ago. The fact is that we were late, but our neighbors were too late, but they all finished and passed an identical law, almost identical law, of course, adapted to their capacities, all of our neighbors. Everyone did this before the summer break because they knew what their deadline was. As far as other legal solutions are concerned, we have a serious problem with a law that is extremely short and very simple, about amendments and additions to the Law on Public Roads. You said we'd control the pump setup. I listened very carefully to you, and you just said that sentence, as if by now it wasn't even controlled. The fact is it doesn't look quite perfect, not just setting up pumps, gas stations in Serbia, but a lot of things. But it's also the fact that it's been done so far. If you want to introduce an expropriation of certain territories, or real estate, along with a path, you know, there have been a lot of abuses. Everyone in Serbia knows that ministers have reported where the road will go, so people buy at the cost of certain territory, they know where the road will pass. But it's much harder, although it has corruption, much harder to achieve corruption, since a large number of engineers decide where the road will go and where it is best and how it will all work. When we talk about gas stations, this is the source of corruption. You said this is an excellent anti-corruption law. This is the absolutes of corruption. I don't know where the SPS members learned about what it is to fight corruption and what democracy is, but this is a depravity of local self-government. I agree that local self-government should have been better prescribed and it should have been prevented, possibly by you comparing you and your colleague whose salary would be bought. But here, from now on, Malten, the minister will decide. You took away the local self-government. Yes, corruption will be smaller, because it comes down to one man or one political party, but the fact is that we still have an objective problem, that the state will become a minority real estate dealer. So, you're going to expropriately take the property and determine exactly where the territory will be for the gas station. Who gives you the right to say it's anti-corruption law? How can you say it'll be better when you take away local self-government and money and you take away her jurisdiction? As unhappy as I am with how local self-government has done so far, your job is to determine it, not to take it away from them. The application of this law will most likely, since it is not finished yet expropriating the road from Kragujevac to Batocina, I suppose, can be applied first in that part of the road. I'm a Kragujevcan, and I can already see how my city, but also the Batocina municipality, can't tell where that gas station is going to be. I agree that it might have been the subject of corruption, but it's obviously going to be at your door now, all those people who think it's their pay, or that in some way they want to determine where the gas station is going to be on this very important roadway. As far as the rest of the parts are concerned, Article 6 speaks most of what is not anti-corruption law. Article 6 is amended as follows: the Minister shall adopt a regulation on the conditions to be met by the applicant for the authorisation, the conditions and the manner in which the licence is issued, the types of licences, the period of validity of licences, and the content and appearance of the form of an emergency transport authorisation. Is this something that seems very democratic to you? Are those the principles you're fighting for? It is a very big question – why do you recognise it yourself at the end of the law, and there are many questions about the compliance of the draft with EU rules? The provisions of the agreement and the transitional agreement relating to the normative shall be without prejudice to the content of the rules. There is no transitional time limit for harmonisation of legislation under the provisions of the agreement and of the transitional agreement. The assessment of the fulfilment of the obligations arising from that provision of the Agreement and of the transitional agreement does not exist. Consistent with EU regulations, there are no points, there is no need for me to read. Is it translated into EU language? That's less important to me, but all the answers are no, because European practice cannot recognize such a model. Just because you've been through eight members of this law or as many as there are, doesn't mean that it can be excommunicated from what is our interest, which is joining and joining the EU. We also have an interesting thing in Article 7, the last member who says that Article 83 of the Law after Article 3 adds Article 4, which reads – the government prescribes conditions that must meet the tunnel in terms of traffic safety. Will Mr. Tasovac, Mrkic, perhaps expert Krstic or Udovic decide what the tunnel will be, what it will look like? Are they going to prescribe or is this just a mask to hire a body? I guess the government can't be professional enough to determine these things. Under what conditions will certain bodies be engaged? The law needs to be general, but you can't get into a situation to completely absorb some things that later leave serious opportunities for corruption. We think this tunnel story is one big symbol of this law. I say once again, the law reminds me terribly, although in eight members it's just put on something that looks like this government, which is that it's passing certain legal solutions, and we finally see that it's exactly the opposite of what you said in your presentation. He's least anti-corruption. It opens up an opportunity for a sphere that Serbian citizens know well. It is known who in Serbia has the opportunity to deal with oil products and trade. We've had a lot of opportunities to read in the media. If the state had an interest in protecting NIS, and we could understand that, it has property. It's supposed to be in that part, but this is actually another way, let's say, taking certain responsibilities from municipalities and cities in Serbia, but also opening a serious corruption sphere. So much for now. I hope we get some answers from you. Later, we'll make some other views about the other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26899	Thank you. (Zoran Angelkovic, from the place: Replica. You have no right to a replica. (Zoran Angelkovic, from the post: He mentioned the SPS, and I am an authorised representative. ) The first word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26900	First of all, I would like to thank all the colleagues who have participated in the debate so far, Mr. Zoltan Pek, with whom I absolutely agree that it is a shame that we haven't ratified with AGN before, that I agree that this now creates to establish the airworthiness on Tisa, that it is a pity that this airworthiness is not even a wider international character, but when we enter the AGN system, then we will be able to influence it. At this stage, we couldn't influence. I would like to thank my colleagues Radoslav Komlenović and Slobodan Veličković for supporting these legal solutions and for one good understanding of all these legal projects that are in front of MPs today. When it comes to colleague Dusan Obradovic, I fully understand the opposition angle from which Mr Obradovic is trying to read these legal projects. Unfortunately, I must conclude that to the greatest extent that your objections are not correct, and they do not fully correspond to the truth and to the fact that they are in this law, that is, the only correct thing that you have today is the fact that the Railways are currently not licensed. (Dusan Obradovic, from the site: A security certificate? When I say they don't have a license, it's because they don't have a certificate. Don't talk to me. As much as you might think that maybe I'm not absolutely expert on each of these individual laws, we know how things are with you. I'm a 72-day minister of traffic and, of course, I don't know if you expect me to solve the problems in this country for seventy-seven years, like the problems in the railways. Our railroads used to be faster. Seven decades ago, the malts were faster than they are today. Unfortunately, I can't influence that. It is not true that the railway subsidy is 18 billion. I don't know where you got that information. The 2013 budget includes around 13.5 billion railway subsidies and 12.6 billion in the 2014 budget. So there's no 18 billion and it's been going on since the world and the century. I repeat, today this government has a policy of reducing subsidies. You're saying I wasn't talking about some perspective of the railroad. Well, I did, I was talking about the need to form a railway company, a infrastructure company, that this company must become open to other operators, and that our Railways must restructure their passenger and transport transport. I wasn't euphoric, colleague Obradovic, talking about the fact that our railway will drive to Frankfurt, but I said it's a system that's being established. One day they'll drive, just like one day a foreign company will drive on our tracks, and that's why we have to enter the interoperability system. Mr. Velichkovic, you're absolutely right, and I'm on my way. I didn't want that word in this law, but this word is inconclusive. When it comes to security, I agree with you, there are a lot of problems. I'm the only one who got out when there was an accident in the tunnel. I was then president of the Belgrade City Assembly. I'm the only one who went out and went around that place and that tunnel, so I know what it was about and what it was like. Unfortunately, he's got a lot of problems. For example, there are almost 2,500 road crossings in Serbia, of which only 500 are fully provided to semi-define and complete signalling. Our tracks are in pretty bad shape. There's a lot to work on, but I repeat, I've been here 72 days. I don't know how you can and where do you get the right to tell me I'm responsible? I won't be responsible for traffic security for not reading the law. The responsibility for safety in railways has "railways", and the regulatory body will be the Railways Directorate, not the minister. The Law of Ways and what I was saying, either you didn't listen well or you're trying to impute something I didn't say. I didn't say for a moment that the minister would prescribe the location of the gas station. You're very incorrectly connecting two things. The minister prescribes provisions regarding emergency transport, not where the gas stations will be located. Don't connect two things. It's very perfidious what you've done. So the location of the gas stations will be solved by the project. The project knows which procedure is being adopted and is not being done by the Ministry of Transport, and especially by the minister. This is done by a professional body that defines in a spatial plan through an idea project, through a public debate. The public debate includes local self-governments and defines stations with gas stations. I absolutely claim that this now legal project and this legal solution are deeply anti-corruption. Why? Because the state defines which places in a very clear and precise defined procedure in which public roads should be located gas stations. When expropriation is carried out for a public road, expropriation is carried out for those points where there will be gas stations. It turns them into state land and pays for the expropriation by that number that's prescribed for it. This remains a lasting benefit for this country and this people, which the state is issuing through its company to petrol stations, or oil companies that are reporting for the project at auction. They pay compensation to the state for both the use of the land and the public road exit. I repeat, there is no more situation in which the owner of a private plot is moving to seek a connection in the municipality, a link in the ministry, and it draws a stationary for a gas station for its location and then sells it for severalm euros to an oil company that gets its private property there. I'm afraid that you, colleague Obradovic, don't understand, and I'm very much in the mood to discuss the amendments on the Committee, we go through this once. This is a legal solution that entered the Assembly before I was elected minister and I absolutely support these legal solutions because both theoretically and practically I believe that these legal solutions are perfectly correct. I repeat what you said about the minister's role. This role of the Minister is related to the adoption of the Emergency Transport Regulation. What is related to the tunnels, so far it has been resolved by a rule adopted by the minister, and now we propose that this issue be resolved by a regulation adopted by the Government. I absolutely don't understand, except the intention of criticizing something, where you found it to criticize and why you mentioned Minister Tasovac. So it is quite clear that the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Construction and Infrastructure, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Spatial Planning participates in such a segment. Well, they won't, of course, the Ministry of Culture, so please... I came here very prepared to participate in a serious debate, but I ask you to keep this debate on both sides on one serious level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26901	The right to replicate as an authorised representative of Parliament MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26902	After the Minister's presentation, there's almost no need, but I'm going to say one sentence about where the SPS is... Well, the SPS didn't sell out all these enterprises in Serbia, but you probably did. She didn't make two 50-metre pumps in Poyate, on the highway, on Corridor 10. She didn't give her permission. NIS, then private pump, no 50 meters. One after the other. That's the essence of this proposal, which is what the minister here was talking about. It can only be done in Serbia and it can't be done in a fair way or at least I don't believe that in a fair way on the highway one pump after the other at 50 meters. So not at five kilometers, not at 50, but at 50 meters. That's the point, and you're wondering who was in charge back then.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26903	Right on line, MP Dusan Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26904	Mr. Angelkovic, it's obvious by law. What's very important here is that it is immediately understood that this is one honor of politics, as the SPS has done all these years, one twist of words. Mr. Minister, I've said very specifically that from now on, or since you're a minister, you've been in charge of it, and I've asked you how you sleep when you know there's no safety certificate. You answer, so there's no license. I'm asking you, is it true there's no safety certificate or license? Do you allow Serbian citizens to drive under such circumstances? That's what the question is. Don't take it personally, if it's your fault. I'm in one sentence, specifically, and I said that it wasn't your fault for the situation in the railways, and you're caught up in just explaining that I called you for something that all Serbian citizens know is a serious problem of the state. It can't be solved by one man, it's a fact, and especially by this government. As far as these things are concerned, if you're talking about it's not 18 billion for the railways. Don't manipulate those numbers anymore. 13.5 billion is directly based on one item. Tell us what about the other funding projects, what about credit financing? When it all comes together, how much money is it from the state going to the railways? Probably more than 18 billion. Why don't you get us that number and tell us? Don't manipulate one sentence from the budget, and you say next year it'll be even less. The state's policy is to cut subsidies, but the code for every dinar we have to establish a rule that we know what it's done for that money. Don't talk about it. So, as far as the railroad is concerned, we have a director who, first of all, provided his son with a job at the SDPR as a manager. At the age of 26, 27, he goes to work with the official vehicle "The Railway of Serbia". Minister, do you know? You're in charge of "Serbian Railways"? Do you know why these 18 billion are used, among other things? That's what the question is. Here I go. We can always talk about what security is, but you said you were in the tunnel that day, and it's very important that you tell us what happened? I was just asking if you felt responsible to say it? That's where you said they'd be questioned and found responsible. You never mentioned that again. I'm aware that this is politics... Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26905	Mr. Obradich, two minutes and 30 seconds. The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26906	Let's start with this at the beginning, what's the last thing you said. I went out there as president of the Belgrade Assembly, not as someone who had something to do with the railways, or the republican administration, at that point. I have stated, of course, that all circumstances need to be established, and these circumstances have been established. A commission was formed, defined the reasons for the accident itself. I repeat, the state for railway subsidies amounts to 13.5 billion in 2013, 12.6 billion in 2014. It's a clumsy attempt on your part to make the state stand out and what the credits are. These are the credits that are the developmental type, the developmental character. Yes, I repeat, "The railroad" does not have the certificates and licences it needs at the moment. She didn't lose them, Mr. Beard. She didn't even have them when Mr. Markovic was the director for the past few years. There's a colleague, Markovic. A colleague, Rosic, was the director of the Railway Directorate. The problems have not arisen in the past year. They exist even before it was the previous government and all governments in the last few decades. Don't let us now observe that it actually started a year and a few days ago, when this government was formed, or 72 days ago, when I became a minister. There are problems from before. I haven't heard from you that a year and a half ago, you had so many catastrophic views on the functioning of the railways, and the situation was the same. It wasn't better or worse. I work with these teams of people and we're absolutely committed. No, no, I won't say. I haven't mentioned a single political party here for a moment, nor am I here today representing my party, in order to make a difference with anyone from the party's corner. I'm here with my team. These people, I don't know if anyone is a member of any party, nor did I ask them that. We are trying to establish a professional system of public good governance in the Republic of Serbia, which deals with the Ministry of Transport. Every day we are committed to improving the system we are in charge of. Our rail transport sector with the Railways and Public Enterprises Directorate "Serb Railways" is working every day to establish a quality system that will ensure that railways receive the necessary licences and certificates. Liberalization is something ahead of us. It's our responsibility. I don't see why you're so tragically experiencing the fact that there's a company called "Combined Transport" with which "Fiyat" is doing business today within its industrial track. The "Combined Transport" and perhaps 11 other companies that the Railway Directorate is seeking to employ their locomotives and wagons will receive perhaps in some pilot project the ability to drive our railways, as foreign operators will get in two years' time. It's simply not something that's a tragic circumstance, which speaks of our railways, it's about the system we're going into. It's an open market system. It'll hire our people. It'll hire our workers. That's what they're going to hire people in the railroad who are working on the railroad maintenance. So this is all going in some direction, but I remind you that the starting base that has welcomed me in this system is very difficult and very complicated, but it's not new. These are the old circumstances we're dealing with. Just as it is not a big deal that the Fiat participated with the town of Kragujevac in solving some road crossings and the fact that they should be more protected, because it is the job of those who own the track, who use track and local self-government on whose territory they are. I repeat, I don't want to bring this debate down to a party level at all. I'm interested in talking about facts, and we're experiencing these facts objectively and realistically, that we're seeing the problems with the gene they've been having, and not that we're acting like some problem started yesterday or the day before, and we've been dealing with it for decades, or more years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26907	The word is by MP Dusan Obradovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26908	Mr. Minister, the citizens of Serbia don't pay the minister to be a chronicler, to create a genealogical problem for us. I haven't told you at any time, and I repeat this for the third time, because I don't know if you want to hear it, because you're assessing my competence, but obviously you're assessing my well-intentionedness in the context of helping, above all, "The Railways of Serbia," I didn't say at any point that it was your fault. You're always in the victim's role, and on the other hand, you're in the role of the man who came from the side to take us out. Tell us, what is it you're going to do? Tell us, what was done with the money, for which business did the Railway get subsidies? You do some work and you pay the state. I've never seen anyone from the SPS, although you said we wouldn't talk about parties, but I have to suggest one thing, a story about Democrats that liberalisation is good, you're first. We've been saying it for over 20 years and we fought for it when you had no hearing for liberalisation. But on the other hand, it is necessary to create conditions for the Railway to withstand competition. This is your responsibility to the Minister. "The railroad" is the property of Serbia and you are responsible for "the railroad" being able to withstand competition. In the first month of the opening, there was no possibility of anyone running away from co-operation with our railroad, for example. "Fiat" because I'm from Kragujevac, someone took advantage of it. You're still proud of it – it's liberalisation, that's what we've been fighting for. It's the way you've been liberalized. That's not a good way. You are responsible for making everything that is owned by the state work, to be competitive, not to be in a situation to talk about the train to Frankfurt. I repeat it again, because we have 1,500km of railways in Serbia, and only 3% can cross 100 per hour. You're telling us about the modern railroad. I repeat, you are not responsible for this situation, give us a vision in which direction will further develop "The Railway". You admit now in a second attempt that there is no security certificate, no license... (President: Thank you, Mr. Radovic. ) Here I am finishing, just one sentence very important for the security of Serbian citizens. I'm not talking about you not introducing a license, I'm asking if you're aware of the responsibility you're wearing. It's something to tell the citizens of Serbia, and it needs to be won as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26909	Please, next time I won't let you talk for over two minutes. I'll take your word for it. Mr. Angelkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26910	Mr. President of the Assembly and the Prime Minister, first of all, it would be good to discuss one thing. For the last 12 years, DS has run the railroad. We've been listening here for the last year. If you're talking about liberalisation, I insisted on liberalisation for four years on the board of directors, and then I was saying, Mr. Markovic is here, that to me as a taxpayer, it's important that there are 30,000 people working for the Railways and not whether there will be 13, 15 or 20 in the state railways. You didn't do it. You didn't mean to. Two, we don't have a thousand and a half miles of track, we have four thousand kilometers of track. At least you're informing yourself, it's quite simple. Thirdly, for the five and a half thousand kilometers of railways Austria has, the budget is four billion euros a year, two billion and 400 for the infrastructure, why are you moaning for 18 billion? It's a little bit of money for the railroad if we want to build a railroad and build a railroad. That's the point. How do you spend that money? Let the state authorities discuss it. But I'm telling you, for that money, there's no way to maintain the system, not build new stripes. They can be built as well as Serbia's roads, out of credit arrangements, as strong as the state is. It is therefore necessary to complete the reorganisation of railways and infrastructures by the end of the year, to be an independent undertaking under the law, and to invest money in infrastructure. That's what you don't understand. When it comes to that train you're talking about, in the tunnel, accidents happen and that's a fact. But it's minimal on the railroad. You'll say it's minimal because it goes 40 kilometers per hour, it doesn't go 200 km. But still, it's minimal. Where have you heard recently there's been a train crash and someone's been killed in the last seven, eight years? And that train is the technical thing that happened to the previous train going to 15 minutes, the BG train and driving 12 million in Belgrade at the checkpoint broke down and thus opened the previous ramp.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26911	Thank you. Mr. Borislav Stefanovic has a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26912	I'm really going to try for a little while, without the intention of getting in the middle of a controversy with a respected colleague. Compared to other modes of transport, the rail accidents happen more rarely, but that's because our trains go 20 km per hour. If you experts make it ten miles down, there'll be less than an accident. That's how you run this country's public systems. By the way, no one asked you how much is out, but what are you spending your money on? Not you personally, of course. The answer is – spend only on wages. Absolutely every penny goes to pay. No development, no track repairs, no locomotives, no nothing. That's true. That's what we're talking about to you. First thing you said when you got up, you said we were in power for 12 years. That's not true. How long are we gonna play here with numbers? You socialists have been in power for 150 years. What you're saying is completely pointless. You've been ruling Serbia for 150 years. I tell you that and you know it's not true, as you know it's not true that DS has been in power for 12 years. At least try to hold back. Here in the Assembly, we've regulated it more or less. I know people here may not be used to hearing what's being said. It's a lie. We ask you - where are the money, what are they spending on, and what will the minister do about the fact that we do not have a security certificate, that citizens are at risk in the future? I don't know if you understand that concept of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26913	Minister Antic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26914	I thank Mr. Obradovic for persistently reminding me that I am from the SPS, which I am not running from. I'm proud of the fact that I'm a Socialist. But I tried today not to politicize this debate but to lead it to one level that is primarily in the interest of solving the problems these laws are trying to solve. I keep reminding you that we have a bad situation when it comes to rails, our rails are in bad shape, our locomotives are bad, our cars are bad, we have a lot of railway employees, we're giving out a lot of funding for subsidies that go to pay, etc. I repeat, they've been going to pay since the world and the century, no one's invented it now, so, unfortunately, it's a long time ago. I repeat that I've been here less than two and a half months and, as far as I can tell, it's been working for years and decades. We don't have projects to improve the track. We have loans that have been raised to rehabilitate the railroad. I mean, first of all, a Russian loan. Unfortunately, I can't activate those loans and I work every day to activate those loans, but there are no projects. There is no project to rehabilitate the Pazova railway - Novi Sad, there is no project to rehabilitate the railway towards Bar and only in 2015 we can activate that $800 million, or most of that Russian loan. I repeat, because we don't have projects. I think on today's party day, it would be best if we all shut up, because we're all to blame for it together. I don't want to work at all for years and decades and centuries as much as anyone is in power, but I repeat, no one was ready to step forward and it wasn't done until today. I'm not saying that the current leadership of the railways is ready, nor am I as a minister, but I have to say that no one has ever done that before. The Minimum of the previous four years was the party from which you came, Mr. Obradovic, led the Railways, and I am not transferring it to you, but I am merely pointing to the circumstance that nothing has been done in those four years, as nothing good has been done in the past four years when a colleague from the NS was there. These are the circumstances we face. I know that Mr. Angelkovic was there as president of the Assembly of the Society and I know that there is a huge resistance in the Railways to accept any corporation within the Serbian Railways. People have become accustomed to nearly 20,000, that every year the republican parliament, on a proposal from the ministry that is competent and the finance ministry, adopts a budget, which has one huge item for subsidies known to be on the payroll. It's normal that there's a resistance to change anything and no one's changed anything for years and decades. Now we're trying to do something, and I've given you a vision twice, Mr. Obradovic, which is the proposal of this ministry. It was also a proposal from the previous ministry. I'm very persistent in wanting to do this, isolate infrastructure, passenger and rail traffic. In the next step, make a public enterprise – the railways of Serbia. Serbia's railways should be used by all those of interest, both domestic operators and foreign operators. In two years we'll have to let foreign operators on our tracks, charge for the use of these tracks, hire people to work on the maintenance of the railroad. On the other hand, in the first step – form a company for passenger and freight transport. In the second step – separate it. Travel transport, like the whole of Europe and all countries in the region, must be kept at the level of some extra payments per passenger transported, and freight transport must make it fully economically justified and it must operate on economic grounds. It's some vision and it's kind of a road that's gonna be really hard. Because, I repeat, here we have one recent director of the Railways, one leading man in the Railways, Milutin Mrkonjic has worked and collaborated with the railways all his life, this system is inert and will fight any changes. We need all of us to push towards change in order to have better rail transport and to allocate less resources from the taxpayers for railway subsidies. It's a very hard story, and don't play ping pong. I repeat, let's not mention the parties, because we're all guilty of such a situation. I'm really not going to get involved in this controversy anymore, I'm going to listen to all the remarks of MPs, MPs' clubs. I apologize for getting into this one controversy that I said in advance I wouldn't go in.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26915	I think we close a circle of replicas here. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26916	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Chairman, here's to finally hear from someone who's not guilty of the situation in the railways and who keeps telling you what I'm about to tell you. It is good to conclude this debate between members of the Socialist International, who is responsible for another project of the Republic that has only touched the bottom. It's the system. Now, you, Mr. Minister, are enough of my arguments that I wanted to say and that I've been repeating earlier about Serbia's state railways, getting out of hand, because that trom is an autistic system that needs to be the generator of the development of a society, one of the important generators is exactly the black spot on Europe's rail map. At the time of the Serbian Principality, we had an average train speed of 35km per hour. Now that trains are going 300 kilometers an hour in the world and comfort and safety are better than air transport, there are unnecessary discussions here - who's to blame? It's the system's fault. What this proposed safety law, and I would say to a system of technical measures according to EU standards, is something that we have always said should be done in our railways, to separate economic operators, to invest in development and to open competitiveness. What no one has said, with respect to all your good intentions, is that we will have the greatest part of the problems we are now facing in the future, because the evaluations of relevant experts are that it is necessary to invest in Serbia's railway system somewhere around 4.6 billion euros. It's a huge money the state of Serbia doesn't have right now. But what we can do, we can do to bring these technical standards into line and wake up from a deep dream of Serbia's railway. So a pompously announced Russian loan, we voted in favour of taking these credit funds, we talked about various projects, not to mention them now, and then we come to the fact that the money stands, that the state has once again shown its responsibility and that the funds that we have been granted are not used for the development of railways because there are no adequate projects. Are we going to vote for the Security and Consistency Act? Yeah. Why? Because it's something that's inevitable and the future of Serbia's railway, and we believe that what's practice everywhere in the world and in Europe, I think that somewhere around 17% of the passengers are transported by rail and about 8% or 9% of the goods. It is the cheapest transport of people and goods, the safest transport of people and goods, a very popular transport, and I believe that with the harmonisation of technical standards above all, we will, in a technical sense, be an integral part of the railways of Europe, but essentially, I think it will take us many years, because a lot of time is lost. Many chances have been missed, many opportunities have been missed, all who were in power, who managed Serbia's railways, acted in the same way. We voted out subsidies here, subsidies are mostly paid, not development, there was no adequate control of the cost of subsidies. What we've been looking for all the time as a parliamentary group, respecting the fact that railways are everywhere in the world on state subsidies and the inevitableness is that they continue to exist, but what we insist on, it's better control of the cost of subsidies. If we misanalyse the situation in our railways, we will see that trains get to the Croatian port of Rijeka faster than to the port of Bar, that the railways themselves complain that they often have to buy some basic means of work, such as mirrors, so they go to the Chinese markets to buy, because it is closed, exceeded, the tromical system does not allow them. We have many unsecured road crossings, a very poor track condition, insufficiently revitalized railways, on a very small number of tracks, the speed is about 100 kilometers per hour, and it is not something that has resulted only in recent years. I remember the scene in Skopje, which is really for Kusturica or Nusic, when the speaker at the train station announced a motor train that traffics on Skopje-Atina's route, then the passengers crashed. But the speaker said he would be three hours late. It's something that's our destiny and it's something that's caused by a system that absolutely needs to change. You, Mr. Minister, mentioned what I also wanted to say and I agree with you. This name of the law is quite obnoxious and it could be there, regardless of what is in a few words an adequate translation, but let's say the law on the safety of rail traffic, let's now also make my contribution, and the harmonisation of technical systems, or something in that sense. This way, he's quite obnoxious and one of the few laws that is not in the spirit of our language and in the spirit of our tradition, and it seems to me that a more appropriate name can be found. What we're going to support is that our trains have to be fully, and following regulations, and staff working on trains to retrain, to accept and learn about signalling, regulations, technical characteristics, tracking, etc. trains when they cross the border of our country, but what is being asked as a fundamental question is – how will foreigners react and how they react now enter our country and when they see both the state of infrastructure and the state of the tow and tow vehicles. What we will be interested in and what I would ask you is a question, since no security projects have been provided for the Russian loan voted by this National Assembly -- who is responsible for not having projects and for being quite justified, both the president of the state and the former prime minister of the state and the former prime minister spoke a lot about the loan, which was taken into account by the public, which we all realized the inevitability of taking that loan, under the conditions that they gave us, but behold, in that part we still showed one absolute irresponsibility and the resources standing, revitalisation of the important railways waiting, and responsibility for not yet using Russian credit. What regulates the Safety Act in railway transport is indeed a series of essential technical elements and would not particularly absorb them because they are all standards and demands of modern time. What interests us, since we belong to European right-wing people, to seek out in all areas of our public life competition, is that when we will see other carriers on our tracks and when we will give someone else a chance to show that he may be more capable, and surely he will be more capable than we now have in our rail system? As for the Law on Public Roads, reading provisions that change and weighing arguments for and against, I would agree with the minister's argument, because the current way of planning the place of authorisation and the construction of gas stations along public roads was indeed one of the main generators of corruption. There was absolutely no system there. Someone here mentioned that along the highway at Pojata there are two gas stations at 50 meters. Of course there is, but there are many places, even three gas stations behind each other, which absolutely has no justification from the point of view of traffic security on public roads, nor is there any economic justification, nor is there a need for drivers to have three pumps at one location, and then they can cross 50 and 60 kilometers and not have any other gas station. Of course, corruption is always something that follows every society and it is impossible to root out completely, but it seems to me that this solution is still better than the existing solution and that is why we and these amendments to the Law on Public Paths will support it. As for the Law on Maritime Navigation and what you ministers said, there were really a lot of comments in public because of the lack of instruction - what do we need the Law on Maritime Navigation when we don't have the sea? Then all of us who have dealt with this had to explain what you said in the opening statement, that we have 5,000 sailors, that it is not something that exists in recent years, but that it is something that has existed for decades in the Republic of Serbia. Mostly, these sailors in large international companies and all that the Law on Maritime Navigation provides, in terms of helping those people who actually lead one specific way of life, who at five, six, and sometimes seven, eight months away from Serbia because of the nature of the work they do, are not often with the family, but are earning mostly decent amounts of monthly earnings and are helping to maintain their families and reduce the pressure on other jobs, so all these solutions provided for by the Law on Maritime Navigation are absolutely acceptable and we will fully support them because we understand them. We will support other agreements, but what we are interested in with the railways is what will happen in the future with the Serbian railways, since it lacks 4.6 billion euros to begin to look like what should be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26917	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26918	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr Minister, representatives of the Government, representatives of the Railways Directorate, honourable MPs, today we are talking about several legal solutions, and I will be based on the Law on the Security and Interoperability of Railways. As in the work of the Assembly so far, whenever laws are found on the agenda that have something to do with rail traffic is of great interest, and for a reason. I will remind you that it was also a great deal of interest when we adopted the roof law on railways in May this year, and also when we adopted or ratified so-called. Russia's 800m-dollar loan or when we ratified a loan from the Arab Economic Development Fund to $25m for the completion of the first phase of the Belgrade Centre railway station, but also when we adopted the Convention on the Participation of Serbian Railways in International Railway Traffic, etc. Cotif. At the very beginning, I cannot agree with the explanation that the motion has given that the basic reason for the adoption of this law is to fulfil our country's international obligations and our railways and to comply with legal legislation. Far from it being necessary and necessary. I come from a political party of the URS that has since its founding represented the the thesis that Serbia should be an EU member and we are not disputed at any time, nor will we give it up, but today in the Serbian Assembly we are talking about the safety and interoperability of railways, the main reason for the adoption of this law is to increase the safety of all participants in rail traffic, those who provide services, but also those who use them. So, security first, but certainly compliance with all the directives that you stated in your explanation. Also, you have explained, and this has been warned by workers, people who are from Railways, one reason that the current, current and current law of 1998, which was adopted 15 years ago in the Federal Assembly, is not adequate, which I agree with because there have been significant changes on Serbian railways. Believe me, I worked in the "Serb Railway" system in 1998, and nothing has changed in these 15 years on Serbian railways. And then there was talk of reforms. And then no one had the courage to go seriously into reform. And then people were afraid for their place, because they were talking about extra employees at the Railways. And then the trains were canceled and there were great delays. There were no spare parts. The only thing I can't remember is if then there's a train from Belgrade to the Bar of the Roads for 32 hours. The only difference is that it was a national train back then, and today it's an international train. Someone would say that this is the information for that section "Believe it or not," however, it is a fact. It is this fact that a train travels from Belgrade to Bar 32 hours, fortunately not every day, it only happened once, is an eclectic example of Serbian rail interoperability. Speaking of interoperability terms, the minister himself has repeatedly said that this is not the happiest solution. Now let's do some linguistics, and I'll try to make my contribution, as well as my esteemed colleague, Chiquiris, so I've also asked for help in the dictionaries. It's not a problem that the title of the law will be interoperability, it's a term that's gone a long way. However, not so much in rail traffic, as in the field of information technology, it is more represented in the area. I'm not the kind of guy who's looking for some of our home terms at all. However, the term interoperability itself represents the possibility of several different systems and subsystems to work together well. I've found one interpretation, it seems very correct, where interoperability represents complete mutual harmony. So the complete synchronization of systems and subsystems. Also, the great dictionary states that interoperability represents one who has the opportunity to be cured by some surgery. A key question arises today in this Assembly – is there a cure for Serbian railways and is there an operation that can cure Serbian railways? If we're already talking about this medical termology, we should start with a diagnosis. Today, when you mention Serbian railways, first of all, there are associations to lateness, train cancellation, cold, unlit wagons, lack of tow and tow, not losing permanent and traditional business committees, which once used freight rail traffic and, of course, several times today mentioned subsidies by the state to the railways, without which the railways, of course, could not function. All of this is due to the fact that the railways today are in a very difficult state, but first of all, this all came about as a result of a bad economic situation, the end of the need for transport services. I can also call this class objective, but on the other hand, rather subjective in the work of the Serbian Railways Company itself and the relations of the ministry itself in previous decades towards the company. One bad staff policy, one poor social policy, a major policy impact on Railways, quite little investment in infrastructure and a lack of courage for serious reforms in Serbian railways. All of this has led to today's 3,809km of railway network 1,768km of highway tracks, and about 32% of these tracks have been electrified. Only 7% of the track or 276 kilometers has two tracks, only 45% of the track has a 22.5-tonne axle load, while at 30% of the track this load is below 16 tonnes. The allowed speed goes 100 kilometers per hour to only 3.2% of the track, and most of the track, about 50% of the network allows maximum speed of up to 60 kilometers per hour. With the exception of individual sections of Belgrade-Shid and Greater Plan – Nis, which are two-wheel electrified and on some sections allow for higher speeds. All other railways have outdated technical and technological parameters. Even in some sections of these tracks, there are shares in very poor condition so that speed is often temporarily limited to 20 kilometers per hour. "Serbian railways" have, not officially, on paper with about 480 locomotives, 8,500 freight cars, 550 passenger cars. Tow and tow vehicles are relatively old, unreliable, which does not rarely result in driving defects. The average age of vehicles exceeds 30 years and the availability rate varies between 26% and 61% depending on the type. In the last year, 320 seats in a total length of 535km were introduced on Serbia's railways, representing 16% of all railroads that were exploited. Telecommunications systems, which are in use today, and all those working on "Serb Railways" know what security means, these systems are three generations older than those who are currently in regular use in developed European railways. Due to this situation over the past five years, more than a hundred train slips have occurred, several thousand departures have been cancelled. It's too high to tell what the impact of infrastructure on traffic safety is. The logical question is, will this law make us manage to raise traffic safety if we have such a bad infrastructure? With great satisfaction, I voted in favour of the $800m Russian loan and other credits mentioned in this assembly, because I believe and support the need to invest in the Serbian railway first in the area of infrastructure. But the question is, what's with the money today? Why didn't the work on Corridor 10 start? I'll remind you, of our commitments by 2020 that we've taken to make the speed of Corridor 10 160 kilometers per hour, of our commitment to the two-wheel rails, to the rest of our obligations. I will remind you of the promises then that there will be a serious reconstruction, a detailed reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway. I have come from the town of Užica, for 30 years Western Serbia has been waiting for a serious reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bar railway. Engineers warn daily that safety is highly compromised. So that's what we listen to every day. It is a very important railway, next to road Corridor 11, it is a sheath of a housewive and it is a question of the future of western Serbia. Every day, two compositions pass with 500 fiyat cars from Kragujevac to Bar. So I'm asking a question -- what about the money from the Russian loan, and why don't they finally start working? These days, it's the focus of interest that's being told around the coastal Fapa. You don't think anyone's gonna come up and invest in "Fap" if there's no way or track? So we have to look for investors and on that, I'm sure the government is working, but it has to offer these investors something. One of the positive flows of the railway law that we adopted in May this year is the possibility for MPs and the National Assembly to participate and assist in the adoption of an infrastructure investment plan on Serbia's railways. I'll remind you, Mr. Minister, at the time, you were probably voting for the Law on Railways, on Article 46. The railroad law. For us MPs, it's very important. I will read so as not to paraphrasise – The National Assembly on the Government's proposal brings a national programme of railway infrastructure i.e. The national programme covering the existing characteristics and state of the railway infrastructure of the Republic of Serbia, the construction strategy, reconstruction and maintenance of railway infrastructure, the development component in building new infrastructure capacities of particular importance for the Republic of Serbia, defining the structure of dynamics, realisation and priorities, heights and sources of financial resources needed to carry out activities under the national programme, the national programme shall be adopted for a period of five years. The government submits once a year a report on the implementation of the national programme to the National Assembly. Based on the national programme, the infrastructure manager builds an annual programme of construction, reconstruction and maintenance of railway infrastructure. The infrastructure manager shall report to the Government twice a year on the implementation of the annual programme of construction, reconstruction and maintenance of railway infrastructure. Question for you, Mr. Minister - has the government prepared a national programme? When will the national programme be in front of the National Assembly and the MPs? When will "Serb Railways" make an annual plan for investing in infrastructure and reconstruction and maintenance? I think that would be interesting. As far as interoperability itself is concerned, I have already said that interoperability represents the possibility of one synchronised operation of multiple systems and subsystems. All those who have some connections and contacts with the railroad know that the railroad is a very complex system. Of course, it doesn't look like that on the side. Once again I say, ordinary users have other associations towards the railways. So a large number of very complex subsystems. It's this law, by the way, that I think this is a necessary law, which exactly harmonizes the work of all these subsystems. However, the question arises whether the adoption of this law will solve all problems on the railways and whether the security will be significantly improved once the law is passed. In Article 9. The draft law defines uniform technical regulations as technical specifications with which the subsystem must be in conformity. The Single Technical Regulations shall be adopted by the OTIF as an integral part of the Convention on International Railway Transport. My question is: how many subsystems won't meet these very strict requirements that the OTIF will make for us? Also, the question arises – in the law stand for the Directorate to bring besides everything else technical specifications interoperability? How many subsystems won't meet these strict requirements? What's that like in the field? In law it looks very nice, however, we have a completely different picture on the ground. That's what I'm going to try to paint. A locomotive pulling a train from Belgrade to Bar comes for a checkup at the Makish workshop. In the Makish workshop, they find that it's not correct, that there's an electric closet in E7, and there's an electric pneumatic valve that's not right. They don't have that electrical pneumatic valve. The ones on another locomotive that's already out of power, they're taking off that electric pneumatic valve to get it back online. She is starting to drive the train from Belgrade to Bar, given that a half-carried part has been placed, it is breaking down on an open track between Razana and Koseric. There is another international train waiting in Koserić that cannot cross this train. The question is, what next? They're notifying a dispatch centre in Požega. They have no other locomotive to send them to remove the train first, so they miss this international train headed for Belgrade. So they're taking the locomotive off that international train to pull the train that's stuck on the open track. It all lasts, lasts, sometimes 32 hours. I want to point. So, the situation in the field is much more difficult and serious than it looks to us from the congregation benches and what the law itself can predict. I would point to some more illogicality in the very text of the law. Article 1 states that the provisions of this law do not apply to subways, trams and other rail light systems, and interoperability provisions do not apply to tourist-museum railways. Article 7 states – concerning the interoperability requirement, the requirements for ensuring interoperability can also be applied to vehicles used for tourism-museum railways. So that's one illogicality, and I'm sure someone will take care of it. As far as the directorship itself is concerned, Mr. Trukula. Large powers and responsibilities are also laid down by the Law on Railways, and also by this law on the security of interoperability to be given, entrusted to the Railways Directorate. There aren't nearly any members in this new law where the Directorates don't have any obligations and responsibilities. My question is – is the Directorate today able to meet all these obligations? You are aware of how many regulations it is necessary to make in the next two years only, whether you possess human resources and whether you are an organisational structure, as the Railway Act itself requires in Article 109, requires you to simply coordinate your organisational structure in order to fulfil all these obligations. I'm also asking a question, it's a question for the minister -- is it within that three-month period, which is prescribed by article 110, have all the preparations that have been, I say, in charge of the ministry been made? Because the Law prescribed in Article 110 that in the next three months since the law was passed, all preparations must be made for the law to come into life. In the end, Mr. Minister, I think it is a good thing that this law was found in the assembly procedure, and I think it is necessary, however, to remind me of another member who was very interesting to me, and it is interesting for all those people who work on the Railways. In Article 118, which prescribes official markings and official suits, the train messenger is obliged to wear a red cap. Mr. Minister, he's been wearing that red hat since 1848, when he was tumbling with the lowline, chasing a train all 35-40 miles an hour. Today, after 130 years, Serbian railways are being chased by trains at an average speed of 42km per hour. While at the same time Germany's Simensov's high-speed train, Fiat Italian, French TŽV, chases over 300, in some cases at a maximum speed of over 500 km per hour. I'm not saying you're responsible, that you're guilty. I'm not saying you've found a lot of bad things, but what's the matter with you, Mr. Minister, today? Because you told us that there was no willingness to enter serious reforms in the Serbian railways until now, and that you are not even sure that this readiness exists today. We from the United Regions of Serbia want to encourage you. Get into serious reforms, into serious cuts. Today, the Serbian railway needs courage, first of all, the railway needs truth, and professional professionals, at least party personnel, require fighters for every passenger, for every kilo of transported goods. The railroad has to give up its bad habits to get paid at any cost. And when you said that division of infrastructure companies and transport would bring some results, I'm not sure you believe that yourself. The fourth package gave the European Commission the opportunity in January of this year to give up the model. So, I know you don't believe in that model yourself, and you're not sure it'll give you any results. And finally, once again, we encourage you, have courage, enter into serious reforms of the Serbian Railway as minister, because only under these conditions will this law make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26919	National MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26920	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, today we're talking about two laws that are within your jurisdiction. Amendment of the Law on Public Roads and Interoperability of Railways. I'll look back on one law and the other. I'll start with the railroad first. So what my predecessors have said is the fact that our railways are unfortunately at a lower level or lower interoperability and security, and when it comes to the speed of traffic on our tracks, far below that level that was 30-40 years ago, and unfortunately maybe even 100 years ago. A well-known fact that 120 years ago, the first railway was built, the first railway in Serbia between Belgrade and Nis, and that the train was then trafficling from about five hours to Nis, and now it's likely traffic for a little more time than it was before 120, which is a shame for the whole country. It doesn't apply directly to you, you're a minister for barely two months, but in any case, the situation in this area is really more than worrying. Given Serbia's potential, as it is in the heart of central Europe or the heart of Southeast Europe and the possibilities and needs for rail transport through our country, the projected corridors 10 and 11 passing through Serbia's heart are an unprecedented opportunity to earn money from quality rail transport, whether goods or passengers. We have heard that the recent years have been very little invested in the Railways, and therefore the situation is as it is, that our railways are very bad, that the weariness of the vehicles is extremely high, and two years ago the negotiations are beginning, and I think they are completed and signed with the Russian Federation where 800m euros will be invested by the Russian Federation, or from that loan to the Serbian railways. It is very interesting to look at what this money will be invested for, and according to data published by the 800m-euro ministry to be invested in the modernisation of Serbian railways, partly because much more money is needed for full modernisation, 50m euros will be invested for the 15km-long Belgrade-Pancevo track. 300m euros will be invested for the Stara Paz-Novi Sad railway. For six shares in Corridor 10, otherwise, it is likely to be considered from Belgrade to the Bulgarian border, the Greek border, to be invested 29m euros. By the way, we're talking about the most critical section that travels today more than six hours to Nis. On the Belgrade-Bar track, about 100km will be repaired, the value is 250m euros and 100m euros will be invested for diesel electric locomotives. Since I come from Nis, although you are a new minister, but also all previous, and probably the entire public of Serbia is very well aware of the problem Nis as the third city in Serbia, has with JP "The Railways" Serbia. For almost 30 years there have been and there have been plans to move the railway that is now passing through the heart of our city and for 30 years, through the Ministry, JP "The Railways" of Serbia, various traffic institutes, various other institutions, we are convinced that this will be realised in two or three years. Three years ago, the first letter of intent was signed, and then the protocol between the then mayor and the director of the Railways and then the then Minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, was signed, that out of the loan that will be granted by the European Investment Bank, a project would be done and that it would start with the shift of the railway, i.e. the construction of a bypass around Nis from the Red Cross, in the length of 12 km, as long as 2012, which always coincides with the term of the elections. On several occasions, the protocol was signed, on several occasions promoted, and even with the EU representative, Mr. Dežer, conducted tenders, etc., in order to get into the situation that Serbia does not even have a feasibility study to date, or "Serb Railway" has no feasibility study for the project, no single euro from these 800m euros mentioned is foreseen for the project. I ask you, indeed, are not responsible, but I assume that the associates who are here today are familiar with it, what has the Ministry and the previous minister and all those who are employed at the Ministry, that in this way they distribute money from the Russian loan and that 50 million are foreseen for Belgrade – Panchevo, 300 million for Stara Paz – Novi Sad, that I am not counting further, and that no single euro is foreseen for the development of the project, nor for the realization of this project, which is expected to cost between 30m and 40m euros? Is it possible that for 30 years we have been talking about it, so here is Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, who was present here in 1996, again, by accident, in the election campaign with his party's former head, was opening papers on a two-hour railway knot, and after that, they retreated after the withdrawal of the cameras, and until today nothing was resolved, and we always hear big stories about how complex the problem is, how Serbia is committed to it and how much tomorrow will solve it? We've come to this point that even your ruling party today, these days, has begun a campaign on the Nis-moving project, collecting signatures from our fellow citizens. It seems kind of tragic and absurd that the ruling party collects signatures, petitions to move the railway, instead of supporting that story with its resorient minister and prime minister, and realizes it, but anyway, we from the DSS and 99% of Nish citizens absolutely support that story, and we are ready to participate in it in every sense. I don't need to remind you that there's a railroad crossing the city with local streets and roads in more than 20 places, that nearly 150 people have been killed in the last 50 years, and that the unsecuredness of those tracks. By chance, for example, two weeks ago, I was passing through a spring crossing, or coming across, the train was passing, and the ramp wasn't coming down. You can imagine how many times this happens a year and how dangerous it is for the safety of all of us and our children? So I appeal to you and ask that what is foreseen before your arrival on the distribution of funds from the Russian loan be reconsidered and that the money be located differently, according to some priorities that must be considered primarily the safety of the people living in this country, the safety of our fellow citizens, the safety of our children. After all, that and the law, which today is on the agenda, in all its items and predicts. The second part of the story refers to our travel network, or amendment of the Law on Public Roads. It is widely known that one country has developed as much as it has developed its travel economy. It will be so interesting for potential investment to develop its economy, if it is traffic and infrastructureable and if these people who need to invest in our country, whether they are domestic or foreign investors, have the possibility of fast, simple, easy and above all cheap transport. Serbia is building its 400km highway network, otherwise the previous section of the highway from Belgrade to Nis was built long ago, the remaining 150-200km builds at least one 40 years. And yet, according to the same tried prescription as "The Railways" always in every election campaign, the story is potentiated, so several years earlier the government did even, as it was called, the National Council for Infrastructure, or whatever it was, run by the president of the state. This previous assembly meeting and this one ratified dozens of loans that were intended to build highways through Serbia and what is the situation today after then thunderous announcements, of course always followed pompously through the media and in the election campaign that the complete highway will be completed by the end of 2012, by the beginning of 2013, and will likely be the main topic and next elections. For this purpose and purpose two years ago, a special company called "Coridori 10" whose responsibility is to work on construction, to have an investment function on the construction of highways, to organise expert technical supervision of the construction of highways, construction planning, business expropriation, design and design documentation was also established. Otherwise, by chance or on purpose, the exact same job description has the JP "Serb Roads" which raises the logical question, who is responsible for what highways? Which highways are built by the "Serb Roads", which highways are built by Corridor 10? In whose jurisdiction is the highway towards the Macedonian and Bulgarian borders, and in whose jurisdiction is it envisaged to start a highway headed towards Montenegro? Otherwise, for this purpose, the state owed about 1.3 billion euros. In politics about ten days ago, the text entitled "How We Eated the Future" came out and under the title "Only used a third of the credit". For Corridor 10, about a billion euros, only 12% of the money and 125m euros were withdrawn. The "Serbian Corridors", a company run by the construction of this highway, say that according to a loan agreement with the World Bank and the European Investment Bank, no pens are provided for any delays in the construction of Corridor 10, while according to Dmitry Djurovic, director of this company, the Public Debt Administration for not withdrawing money from the European Bank's loan for reconstruction and development, has so far paid 2.5 million, the dinar said, and I say the euro. Excuse me, what kind of company is Corridor 10, which should be represented by this country as an investor by its organisation, to spend this money that we've borrowed and for which we're paying, as I see here, two and a half million euros for this year, plus 1.5 euros for a non-retired loan from Azerbaijan. Only this year will the state of Serbia pay fourm euros on the basis of delays in withdrawing funds. Why is he late, what's the problem? Let's see what the structure of the Serbian Corridors company is, and is there an objective problem or is there a problem in the division and in the inadequate organisation of enterprises? The above-mentioned director Djurovic came to the helm of Corridor 10 with your new government last year. It's set up as an SNS code, and otherwise a man is a graduate manager of an industrial and economic direction, who graduated from his university several years ago. Otherwise, the man is 1962. He has gained great experience in trade, international trade, marketing and construction... (President: Tomorrow, when the corridors are on the agenda, there is nothing disputed, I just ask that we do not share information on persons that are not discussed at all today in the Assembly. ) So it's about an expert with the mentioned biography. Otherwise, assistant directors are people who worked as inspectors, graduate economists and again, of course, graduate managers. I won't mention names. This is available on the Corridor enterprise site, and there is probably a reason why so many delays in the implementation of the main projects, the main investment projects that Serbia needs to cross its territory through highways, so that, of course, other parts of the country are available to all of us, in order to be more interesting to some potential new investors. What is the state of road construction, or highways through Serbia?" A four-part contractor on the E75 highway is the Greek firm "Terna". For the previous 16 months, she realised, depending on the stock to the stock, 12 to 19% of the work, and there were five months left until the contract was completed. What's the problem? The problem is probably with the performer, and I'm guessing whoever's organizing the job. On the E75 highway, the Greek firm Aktor worked for 33 months. The deadline was 30 August 2013. 70% of the previous contracted works have been completed. The deadline's long gone and there's no telling when it'll be over. On the next section, Aktor and Terna, in the previous 19 months, realised 22 and 14% of contracted works, respectively. There's five months left. On the next part, the performer "Subter", the Czech firm, has been working for 19 months on tunnel digging, and 30% has been completed, another five months until the contract deadline is completed. The next company is Aktor, which in 24 months realised 30% of the work, and the contracted deadline expired several months ago and is not known when it will be completed. All this was the occasion that at a meeting with representatives of the World Bank, held last month, representatives of the World Bank warned of inadequate project management, unprofessional project management and the possibility of the World Bank sending its experts to guide and implement these projects agreed with the World Bank. Of course, it's not random, not on purpose, but it probably has to do with the fact that the Serbian Corridors had about 50 employees before they arrived at their foreheads, and today there are about 130 of them. So 80 people have been admitted in the last year, and probably to speed up the realization of these projects. Of those 80 who have been admitted to being barely nine construction engineers, there are other managers, professional, like this. As a resolute minister, you will have full hands to examine what is happening in Corridors 10 and I believe that you will be responsible for this unconscious management of the company and the unconscious implementation of the projects, that you will examine the various abuses that occur in the Corridors, such as those that projects signed with the Azerbaijani side are designed to provide certain vehicles for the needs of engineers, contractors, and so by the gentleman, the above-mentioned director, received a letter saying that, in addition to the intended vehicles for him, the “Audi” brand, which is not in office, was already in the garage of the said director. (President: Please do not provide information concerning private personal data, which is not correct. I'll give you everything that's written here, and you'll inform your party president. (President: I can bring you documentation that it is not true, but that we do not enter into something that has nothing to do with the agenda. Yes, it has to do with the agenda. By the way, it's 21 minutes past. I'll finish this sentence. Of course, it has to do with the agenda. Public roads are something that this country has owed over one billion euros and the ministry, and we all have a responsibility to deal responsibly with these funds, not that the state of Serbia is paying penals for undrawn four million euros a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26921	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26922	In this block of my announcement, I would like to thank Mr. Chikiriz, Mr. Mitrovica and Mr. Lapčević for his discussions. I'm extremely surprised by the number of experts in rail work that we have in the ranks of MPs. I wasn't familiar with that information. I propose that in some first term, a special debate be held by the competent assembly committee, where, besides the people of my ministry and the Railways Directorate, all interested MPs would be invited, that we really sit responsibly, with no cameras and no desire to politicise and that we discuss together the future of the railway, the future of this whole work in the railway business. I look forward to hearing about some changes when there is support in parliamentary groups, whether they're from power or opposition, but I'd like to hear it once, without a camera to sit down, to talk openly about all the problems. There's a lot of problems. I can't talk about anyone's responsibility today, nor is it my part of the job, nor is it responsibility, except for political responsibility. Sublegal acts, three months. The ministry's proposal was two years and the amendment was adopted here to bring it down to three months. That wasn't real. Those acts are in preparation, but they're not finished yet. The law was passed in May, and that was to be done by August. It's not real, it's going to be congestive over the next two years, as the law originally proposed. The national programme, there's a draft version, it's done, must be brought in line with the new Serbian government's borrowing policy. You know that our level of external debt at the border is possible, that the finance ministry's policy is to be kept under control in 2014, 2015, 2016. Many projects fall out of funding. I hope that we with that national program for the next five years will go to the government in three months. I don't want to mention deadlines, because the associates say it's New Year's Eve. I don't like it before the deadline, so let it be in the next three months and after that in the Assembly. The Russian loan, a question Mr. Chikiriz, Mr. Mitrovic and Mr. Lapcevic touched. The schedule was made the way it was made. In all the loans we have, and we have credit borrowing with both the Russians and the EBRD, there's a lot of supply of locomotives and cars and, of course, we need all of that. Asking why we're getting so many locomotives and wagons at the moment, and the tracks are in this desperate state, we get the same answer – we don't need projects for that supply. The biggest problem we have at this point, not only when it comes to railways, but also when it comes to roads, are either a lack of projects or a situation that these projects are not in the best shape possible. Like I said, Russian credit, the decision was made when it was made. It's been verified in this House. A loan has been activated for the second track of Belgrade-Pancevo. There's documentation for that. The funds were allocated from the budget reserve through the Ministry of Traffic, our participation of 15%. I expect the preparatory work to begin by the end of the year, first of all, when it comes to the bridge, means where it can be done on objects. When it comes to Belgrade-Bar, or Belgrade-Vrbnica and Paz-Novi Sad, project documentation is under way. I expect in 2014 that we will have projects, followed by a procedure for selecting performers, i.e., I think the Russian state-owned company will do most of the work, but Serbian subcontractors should be chosen. It seems to me that by contract up to 50% it's a Serbian firm. It's hard for these papers to start before 2015. Why isn't part of these funds separated from the Nish bypass and what's going to happen to the whole set of problems related to rail transport through Nis or Nis? I don't know how to tell you today. Why aren't they funds? Probably because there's no project in the first place. At this point, EU funds granted almost a million euros are working on a project. This project should give us an answer to what is realistically possible and what is really needed, regarding rail transport around Nis. We have several completely opposite angles of observation here. The railroads think everything should stay the way it is. Therefore, sir, the Railways should not take care of the railways in Serbia. Who asks the Serbian railway where the Serbian state will set the track? It's theirs to drive. That's why infrastructure needs to be isolated from the system, because it's a matter for the state, it's a question for local self-government, and it's not a question for engineers. So the Railways would like everything to stay the way it is. The city would like to move everything out. What's real and what's needed will show the studies. People in my ministry have some kind of vision of things. I am on this day as someone who came here two months ago and a few days ago, at the level of what Minister Mrkonjic suggested when he signed the agreement and what the ministry thinks a more direct solution should be found. It's impossible completely, I'm entering a dangerous zone right now, because I don't want to have my opinion before we get a study, but I personally think with today's data level that I have, it's impossible to completely remove all traffic from Nis, but let's see what the study tells us and what the projects are going to tell us. When it comes to the whole thing about Corridors, I still have to say, it's not like through these loans that are engaged in railways, nothing is related to Nis. Three shares are on Nis-Presevo. There's also around Nis. Two shares are Belgrade-Nish. So it's close to Nis, on both sides. This is done partly from the IBRD loan, the purchase of materials, and the works from the Russian loan. When it comes to roads, yes, the firm Corridor 10 was formed. Today, the company is called "Serb Corridors", as it takes care of the construction of all roads. On today, they are the only ones in charge of doing investment jobs on highway construction. The public company "Serb Roads" is still ending those projects that have started yet to begin 2006/2007. year, first of all, on shares related to a bypass around Belgrade. All other projects work "Serb Corridors" as an investor. I fully agree with you that passing times are not good for many projects, but I have to stand up for the people who are running "Serb Corridors" today, that the largest number of contracts signed has been activated in the past nine months. Today almost all points on Corridor 10 have been attacked. We finally managed to bring in about a month ago the contractors of Grabovnica-Grdelica, that location through the Gredile ravine, where we had a big problem with expropriation, as you know. We still have problems at the Serbian House-Levosoje stock. We have no defined funding, no work, because that share is about eight kilometers long and projected labour values of some 39.9 million fell out of the "Helenic Plan". We have a problem at E-80, according to the Bulgarian border, the problem with the fact that the Alpina has gone bankrupt, that the 22km are currently not being carried out and we have an uncovered one more share between the Grdeliska gorge and Vladic's Han in the length of some 6km, where we have not had funding. Now with the World Bank, I think we're close to being able to restructure the loan and then cover that lot, I think, from the tunnel of Manila to Vlad's Han. Just when I've learned everything possible and impossible to toponyme in Belgrade, I've been delegated to this republican side and now as I learn these cannons from Serbia, I'll probably have to move from here. I have to say, on today, I'm quite satisfied with how the work on Corridor 10 takes place. In a few days, we will have completed that share, which Akto is doing from the Lower Neredovac towards the Serbian House, which you said 70%, which is 100% on today. Ends signalling. We have certain objections from the traffic police and it will be released in traffic, without any pomp, fest or anything like that. Have the citizens start using that highway, believe me, I'm not going there to open that road, because I don't think we should open every few miles. I think next year, without any doubt, we're going to do that part of the Lower Neredovec, read below Vranj to Vlad's Han. It's about 26 kilometers down that south direction, and we're going to get ourselves into a situation very quickly that we're left with only this share through the Gredile Clissur. These are due by the end of 2016. It's the most demanding part, very complex, very complicated. I repeat, we've introduced the performers. People can't see it working because 80% of the route is out of sight from an existing highway, but it seems very polite. That part about Pirot is going well. They're a little better percentages than everything you've been talking about. We have a problem with these few lotions that work for the Alpine. With the World Bank, we've done project documentation and we've assessed the work done and we're ready for the tender. I expect the World Bank will approve this tender very quickly and we will go to the selection of performers. These days, we're finishing the reconstruction of the old Beška Bridge. There we had the good luck and good relationship of creditors that allowed us to have this job, which also "Alpine" got and went into bankruptcy, to assign it to a subcontractor, to our state-owned company "The Bridge" which is now finishing it and I expect it in the next 10 days, if time serves us, to finish it, so it goes quite politely. I had a meeting with the World Bank and the IBRD. I'm surprised you're so informed, there are bigger problems with them. No, no big problems. Of course, they insist that projects are accelerated, that things are resolved faster, that the procedures for solving property-legal relations are established in Serbia faster, so we are under constant pressure, but I think they too are very pleased that things are going on today, especially when it comes to Corridor 10. When it comes to corridor 11, you know it's the political decision of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. About the works on that so-called. "Corridor 11", because it does not exist, nor has it ever existed, is E-763, a Belgrade-South Adriatic road route, or Belgrade-Cacac, by the government's decision, Minister Velimir Ilic co-ordinates activities on the road and I as a resolute minister, although this ministry has the tasks of the state administration over the construction of the traffic infrastructure, I only follow through the "Corridor of Serbia" to which we are a resorient ministry, because this is not exactly a hard-pressed system and we finance as a ministry of Ub-Lajkovac shares, which has a lot of problems. Namely, our domestic performers are in a very bad position and a difficult situation, everyone breathes on gills, and believe me, I'm afraid for the situation in our construction operation and our travel companies, and that's something I do daily. I'm sorry I'm taking so long right now, but I know I should've had a break by now. Once again, I thank you for the great constructiveity of these discussions, and I invite you to sit down and share this story with each other and define this one future of the railway together. Because I, as a minister and my ministry, or the ruling majority, do not want it to be our exclusive right and to be our exclusive decisions. Let's bring them together because they're strategically important to this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26923	Mr. Lapcevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26924	Thank you, Mr Antic, for this exhaustive response. I'll start with the railroad first. You said – no project, we agreed on a loan but we don't have a project, for most things we can't start with the realisation of these projects or the withdrawal of funds by 2015. How many pens are we going to pay for that not pulling the money? Who's responsible for this? Does anyone have a name and a last name who will say – I am responsible for it. No projects. Who's in charge of the projects? Did the state establish a ministry to deal with projects? Do I need as cities to build projects or is the ministry in charge of designing projects and ordering projects? Your predecessor ran the ministry for four years, and where are these projects? Not to mention the previous minister. The railroad wants everything to stay the same. I believe it's important for her to keep everything the same, that the state does, that she singles out 16 billion dinars each year, and that everything is going further and that we have 50% of the extra employees there, and that our infrastructure is in a catastrophic state at that time. It can't do that anymore. Travel corridors. A lot of contracts have been signed in the past nine months, contractors have been introduced into works, etc. How well that goes, they showed the percentages I read a little while ago, even if they were something bigger than I said, because in these months it's changed a little bit more. But in any case, the situation is catastrophic. If you do 15% of the deal in two-thirds of the time, there's something wrong with it. How is it possible that in the Corridors, which is to be dealt with by project management, serious infrastructure projects are mainly employees of people with management or economic professions and have no contact points with road construction?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26925	Right on line, MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26926	Mr. Minister, all that I said about this speaker is that in any place with you and your associates, when "the railroad" is a topic, we talk and, of course, we all help one endangered system of our country together. Be assured that I chose words and that I did not have enough time to say everything I think and what I know about Railways, because I have worked there for 20 years, and my family experience is measured for hundreds of years in Railways. You said the state should take care of the infrastructure and the engineer to drive. What to drive and where to drive? That's the key question, Mr. Minister. Do you know what's on one wall of pleasure trains? Hanged, I don't know exactly how much, but I don't want to be wrong, the pictures of those who died on the Belgrade-Bar track were engineers or assistant engineers. Engineers have been saying for 30 years they've been driving a railroad that isn't safe for them and for all those above them. They're the first to hit. They've been dead for years. No one can hear them. They can't just drive and we can put them on the head of that composition and push her to death. You're saying the state cares about infrastructure? For 30 years, the Belgrade-Bar railway has been awaiting reconstruction. You say there are no projects. Why don't you ask a question as a minister, why hasn't a project to reconstruct the Belgrade-Bar railway in 13 years? Do you have the strength and courage? I think you do. You're a brave man. Here you have the support of the U.R.S. You have support for serious cuts and for serious reforms. Cut it short. We've changed countless ministers, countless executives. They all shrugged their shoulders and talked – we don't have the courage, we don't have the strength, there's nothing that can change. It must change to keep the Serbian railway alive. The railroad must not be a burden, but must be a lever of development and it is not just a phrase. We have to worry about those 18,000 people working on the railroad. This way to give them 12, 16 or 18 billion, we're just pushing them into further agony. So we're prepared as the URS to always talk to you about this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26927	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26928	Thank you. Once again, I thank you for your willingness. I repeat, I am absolutely open to working together, especially on strategic matters for this country and for these infrastructure systems that are the highest value of this country. The highest value of this country, besides humans, is roads and infrastructure. It's objective circumstances. I'm not gonna deal with why there aren't any projects, I'm gonna do it by finishing the projects over the next year. I have to tell you, even though I've been running away from the political connotation of this whole story, if it wasn't for Milutin Mrkonjic, there would be no credit or project today. At least we have a loan, and we're finishing the project. If it hadn't been for deadlines that we all knew weren't meeting, we wouldn't have ended it. We rocked deadlines, but there was always this tension that pushed things forward. Unfortunately, we don't have projects. When it comes to Russian credit, I repeat, we have a project called Belgrade-Pancevo. We have a six-part project on Corridor 10. We do not have the Novi Sad project – Pazova and we do not have the Belgrade-Vrbnica project, i.e. the Belgrade-Bar direction. I repeat, I will not deal with why this project does not exist, but every day I will deal with these people in order for this project to be completed in a year. It's a good circumstance and the people who ran this thing at that point, obviously aware of the fact that there was no project documentation, have made that contract on Russian credit in a way that he doesn't have any penales, no intercal interest on undrawn assets. So, we don't have as a state and a society any harm because we're late, even if we lure her through the foams. We have damages because we don't have the infrastructure and we can't make traffic, which we can't charge the toll on the highways, which we can't arrange for freight traffic here, but we don't even have that damage from this Russian loan because of the unpunished funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26929	According to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a break now. We'll be back at 3:30.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26930	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? National MP Radmila Gerov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26931	I thank the chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the Ministry and the Railways of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today on the agenda in this united debate we have several laws, but we believe that the most significant laws we are discussing today are laws related to the Railways, road traffic and maritime navigation, and I would prefer to say river traffic given that Serbia has no sea. Transport infrastructure is very important for one country, primarily for the issue of the economy, but also for the question of population migration, because it is in vain to have a territory unless citizens live in the territory. In your opening statement you presented the drafts of these laws, and then in the debate you said the following – that we are all guilty of the situation in the Railways all together, that people are used to having 20,000 and getting pay subsidies and that there is a great resistance to reforms. I have to tell you, I don't think all 20,000 railway workers are resisting it. It is clear and certain that the resistance to reforms is provided by the leadership of the Railways. I can't agree that we're all equally guilty. I don't consider LDP guilty of the state of the railways. You're not responsible for the state of the railways today. You are a minister for two and a half months, but 20 years ago all previous governments are responsible, because when you say there is a strong resistance to reforms in the railways and they are used to always getting subsidies from the state, then the question of political responsibility is raised. Why have the political parties headed by the Railways so far, why did the political parties running by the traffic ministers not have enough courage and responsibility to start reforming Serbia's railways earlier? It takes courage and determination. When in election campaigns many political parties simply want to court voters, which the LDP has never done, then it always comes from the fact that there will be no layoffs, everything will be the same as we have always been in the political campaigns ahead of the elections of certain political parties we have the opportunity to hear about the rapid tracks. I was really surprised by the prime minister's statement that we would have trains that would move 200 kilometers per hour. Still, this isn't science fiction, and we don't live in some science fiction movie. The situation in the railways is completely different and you talked about it. We have 30-year-old railways, such trains and the speed of trains on today's railways don't cross 20 to 40 kilometers per hour. This means that in some previous period it was not invested in railway infrastructure and it is good that you intend to now separate this company into some two, where one will deal with passenger transport and transport, and the other exclusively with railway infrastructure. The proposed law, and that's what you said, plans to liberalise the market and introduce foreign operators within two years. They can have state-of-the-art equipment and a state-of-the-art vehicle, if such trains are to be modern in our tracks, you'll agree that something like that is not possible. A few months ago, this National Assembly and the government approved a loan to buy Russian trains. I have to ask you a question - how many such trains have been purchased, have such trains jumped out of the tracks or not, and are these trains Russian good for our railroads? We at the LDP didn't vote then and would not vote to raise a loan from Russia, and that the state has an obligation to buy very Russian trains because we think it's bad. I come from Negotina, from Eastern Serbia, and I don't know how much you know, Minister, with 300 train departures being cancelled in Zajecar from the train station towards Nis, Bor, Majdanpek and Negotina in October, and in September 180 departures. Serbia's railways have this comment that bad railways, trains older than 30 years old, but it's really surprising that one of the reasons is that a misrepresented diesel engine has been broken, more specifically that they have called a tender and selected a contractor who has done a bad remont. Are the passengers responsible for the bad remont? Is it normal in the 21st century for passengers to get on the train and then get kicked out because the train doesn't travel that day? It's not good for us. The head of the Zajecar station says there's only three trains out there that break down all the time and he's talking about this remont that was really bad. If all citizens of this country are paying off this loan to Russia for Russian trains, can the citizens of eastern Serbia get at least one train decent, not 30 years old, because the railway line from Zaječar towards Negotina is the only means of transport for certain villages, where mostly old and sick people live? So when you don't have a train, those people can't go anywhere. They can't go to the doctor. I believe that such a situation is truly brutal and it seems that we citizens of Eastern Serbia are citizens of the second order not only for this government but also for the previous government. You said you weren't responsible for the safety of rail traffic and on one of my parliamentary questions I got an answer from you and I have to ask you again. Your assistant in charge of traffic security, you replied that he resigned on September 16th. Has the government of the Republic of Serbia determined and adopted Sasa Mirkovic's resignation? I'm asking you this for two reasons. First, because I believe that someone cannot be in Zajecar, president of the Assembly, and that he receives salary as a member of the Government of the Republic of Serbia from the Republic budget without coming to work or it is political marketing. The second reason I ask you is the fact that in the last seven months there have been about 20,000 car accidents, that about 300 people have died on the roads. Do you then need an assistant minister in charge of traffic security to sit next to you in the cabinet and do something, or do you need a politician who will work in Zajecar and receive a salary here? It is impossible that, from September to this day, you couldn't have found that resignation in any session of the government. I think you know the ministers that a new transport strategy has been adopted regarding EU corridors, as Europe's most significant economic document. The European Commission has published new maps showing nine main corridors that will be the hub for transport within the European single market. Accordingly, the EU planned 26 billion-euro investment for the period from 2014 to 2020. Serbia is located on the Rajna-Dunav Corridor. Now I have to ask you this - is the Ministry planning a new strategy for the development of traffic in Serbia, related to this new EU document, so that we can compete with the EU and withdraw some significant funds, because the fact is that the state has no money for new routes and for the restoration of railway lines. That's what I'm asking you for -- are you planning a new strategy and will this new strategy be covered by Corridor East? In 2006, the idea of building the Corridor of the East, which should go from the direction of Pogorjevec via Kučev, Majdanpek to Negotin, was then formed. This would bring Corridor 10 together on the three-way between Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria with Corridor 4. I assume you know what I'm talking about. The route was established by the most relevant Serbian design institutions. So there was a CIP, the Institute of Roads and the Serbian Roads Company. In addition to covering road traffic, it includes railway infrastructure, where Mokranj and Prahov would have a merger of Serbia's railways with neighbouring Bulgaria. The 138km share requires 173m euros from the republic's budget to be allocated to build this, and this was foreseen by the 2008-2012 budget in the republic's budget, and then because of the global economic crisis, the funds are not defined. It takes about 4,000 euros to design that road section, although it is known that the new EU strategy will invest in ports, but also in ports related to ports, for us in Serbia a significant Corridor 10, but it is clear and I think you understand that if we don't build this Corridor East, transit will not go through Serbia, it will go through Corridor 4 through Bulgaria and Romania. I don't think it's the state's interest, and I don't think you, as a traffic minister, are up for it. When you said there were no projects, and that's true, you said you weren't going to ask questions -- who's responsible for why there are no projects, but now you're going to try to build such projects, so we can withdraw this $800,000 from Russia. I think the ministry is due for next year to predict money for the design of this entire Corridor East. It is not only important for 13 eastern Serbian cities, these are cities in four districts, but it is really important for both rail and passenger traffic, in order to bring Corridor 10 together with Corridor 4. If this is not done, since the Kalafat Bridge is already operational, the whole transit will go through EU countries, because Romania and Bulgaria are EU members. To avoid and prevent this, it is necessary for the state to invest these funds in the construction of the project, and that later, from these EU funds that have already been identified, since there is a port in Prahovo, which is an EU strategy, you can withdraw certain funds for the implementation of this project, a project to build one such road and connect the railway between Serbia and Romania. I don't know if you know the next fact. You may not know her. In 2008, a strategic document on the work of Euroregion Danube 21 was produced in Sofia. It consists of Serbia, Romania and Bulgaria, as well as the border municipalities, with us the Borski and Zajcar County and the municipalities from Romania and Bulgaria around the Danube. In 2008 the Euroregion Danube's strategic document 21, which included the following things, was confirmed in Sofia, among other things, that the South Stream pipeline would come from Zaječar's direction to Serbia. As far as we can see, it's being realized. The Corridor of the East has been designed and the merger of the railway at Mokranj has been designed to bring Serbia's railway into that part, which is the least expensive, together with neighbouring Bulgaria. Back then, unfortunately, I was there, we were the presidents of the Zajecarski and Borsko district municipalities, and none of the ministers of the then government were, because in Serbia were preparing a campaign for parliamentary elections. On the other hand, Romania and Bulgaria, except the president of the municipalities, were their ministers. These, if you are not familiar with this strategy and this document, please look at it, because Euroregion has the right to compete with the EU, and thus we can build Corridor East. As far as road conditions are concerned, you know that in some previous period, from a few years ago, regional road routes were once called, they were transferred to the jurisdiction of local self-government, and that was bad, because local self-government had no money to maintain these traffic routes, and then, by the budget of the Republic of Serbia, local self-government defined certain funds. The rebalance of the Republic's budget for this year, the projected funds to maintain these then regional, now second-row routes, have been halved. The question arises – how will local self-government work winter road maintenance? I know it's the government, i.e. The public company "The Ways of Serbia" took it upon itself last year, but I don't think there's enough money in the republican budget this year. How will the municipalities fund it? The municipalities today have no money for regular patching up these roads, let alone changing some shares. This really puts traffic at risk in the larger territory of the Republic of Serbia, especially in eastern and southern Serbia, because you will agree that in eastern Serbia, when snow falls sometimes at a height of half a metre, that winter maintenance costs a great deal. If the state does not allocate additional funds for winter maintenance, I think many roads in that part of Serbia will be impenetrable. For the state, it's of interest to RTB Bor. That way, the state will have other problems. Do you have any way to solve these problems and do you consider, as Minister of Transport, that in the next period these routes should continue to be in the jurisdiction of local self-government or should they be returned to the authority of the Republic? I think the ministry needs to be defined by the government for one of those two things. They'll either take them on themselves, or they'll give local self-government enough money, so they can patch them up first of all, they might as well be able to change those roads, but first of all, they can provide winter maintenance. I believe that you know the routes in eastern Serbia, but if you don't know, I think you'll be able to do it very quickly, because the local elections in Negotin are going to take place, to get to know all of these routes, because usually when the election comes, there's an asphalting going on. In Zaječar we had some asphalting and usually citizens of these small towns in Serbia always look forward to the elections, because then they certainly get some share of the road paved. I don't think that's a system-based solution to the problem and that the state has to make a strategy for the development of traffic routes, rail traffic, to know what we're going to invest in in some future time period.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26932	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26933	I want to thank Mrs. Gerov for this discussion and a handful of questions and comments that have gone deeply into the essence of what the key problems are and in our overall infrastructure, traffic, of course, and in what is within the scope of the Ministry of Transport's work. If you'll excuse me, I'll start with this last one. I know exactly what the roads are like in eastern Serbia. In my report to the Anti-Corruption Agency, you can see that I have a small vineyard in the municipality of Negotin, the village of Crnomastica, so I know that the roads are very bad. Before I was elected minister, I knew that, by all accounts, I joke with people who are in charge of keeping roads that they are responsible because people in this country don't have a large percentage of the kidney stone, but he turns from those roads into sand. Now, I liked doing that too, so I didn't have to play too smart. So, I'm completely in agreement with you. Personally, I think it was a very bad decision to pretegorise the roads and to re-ategorize the roads with the state roads of the second order and assign them to local self-government. The 6000 km network allocated to local self-government to maintain in terms of decentralisation, and without money to maintain them, was a purely marketing move in preparation for the 2012 elections. The municipalities and cities, most of the municipalities, almost all of them, Belgrade cannot maintain their 450km of roads they have received, and it has the most money. I can imagine what it's like in other municipalities and cities. I think it's a bad thing. One of the first moves we've made as a ministry since I got here is exactly one joint action with the Ministry of Regional Development and local self-government. These days in the Government of the Republic of Serbia is in the process, in the opinion of the other ministries, and I think that in the next few days we will round up all opinions, a regulation that restores these roads back to the level of the states' pathways of the second B order and will be taken over by the JP "Serb Roads". Unfortunately, Serbia's "roads" will not have enough resources for that either. A few days ago, we had a meeting on the subject: “Keeping roads. ” They were DARS people, a state-owned company in Slovenia that is involved in road maintenance, which came out with data that those for a network of 6,000km of state roads have a budget of 188m euros for maintenance. We have, when we return these 6,000, a network of 16,000 km of roads and a budget of about 100m euros, just over 100m euros. So you see this proportion - 6,000 km – 188 million, 16,000 km – hundreds of millions. I'm fighting to make it a little bit stronger, and I hope I can handle it. That's why our paths are so much worse than Slovenian roads. It was a very bad moment and the decision to return some of the roads to local self-government, part of staying "The Ways of Serbia" and to lift the section of the road maintenance excise, so we now have a big problem. So winter maintenance will take over "Serbia's Ways". Unfortunately, those roads we're talking about, that network of 6,000 miles isn't prepared for winter maintenance, we don't have the resources for that. "Serbia's Roads" yesterday adopted some rebalancing of a business programme that they overmixed within their budget of some 500-600 million dinars and will do those intervention works on the network of roads to prepare them for winter maintenance. Like I said, we have a big problem with road maintenance because there's not enough resources to do that. This desire to make new paths without taking care of the old, has led us to a situation that our paths are in very bad shape. That is why we have made the decision, and together with the World Bank and the BRD and EIB, we have adopted the Programme and the road safety rehabilitation project, which, unfortunately, we have received a loan again, but a credit with a favourable repayment deadline and other credit elements. On the basis of this loan, we will do a serious intervention on the existing road network in the next few years, already starting in the second half of 2014. It is a 380 million-dollar project, of which Serbian Roads will provide over the next four years, how long the project lasts, 100 million, and I repeat, EIB, BRD and World Bank for the remaining 280 million. Of course, now we're doing project documentation because it's about serious rehabilitations, serious projects in the field and security and road conditions, which require project documentation. Let me go back to that beginning of yours. By definition, you know, I come from a party from which the prime minister is from, and by definition now I should give one explanation and defend the prime minister about a statement 200 km an hour. I'll do it, but not because it's my party assignment, but because I really have one good and reasonable explanation for you and for the general public. Our prime minister didn't invent that project. You know there's a mechanism for co-operation between China and 16 Central and Eastern European countries at the moment. Under the mechanism, the Chinese state has provided $10 billion in credit funds for various projects in these 16 countries. Through the project, Serbia has already entered the system through funding and credit financing of shares from Belgrade towards Cačka on the South Adriatic and for the second phase of the "Kostolac B" Termopower Plant. We have a serious offer and a serious, alleged pressure from Hungary and the Chinese state, who are willing to enter into a joint arrangement to rehabilitate the construction of railway facilities that will allow this railway to be brought to a serious level that trains will really be able to transport seriously. It's the initiative of Hungary, their Prime Minister Orban. It's a project they're competing with in the Chinese state. The Chinese state has shown great interest in the project and is asking us to reach the conference, until the summit in Bucharest on November 26th and 27th, which will be attended by the prime minister of China and 16 prime ministers of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, Serbia states whether it is interested in the project being the Belgrade-Subotica project to Budapest. The Chinese side came out here with several options and there are different variations. Some of these variants are that trains on these tracks move at 200 an hour. There are even more expensive variations that could move at higher speeds. The only thing that I consider to be the minister of traffic compared to all that is said in public these days is that our conditions, the state of the environment far more adapted to go perhaps to the state of the railways that will allow speeds of up to 160 km per hour, if we define ourselves as a state of participation in this project. I repeat, the prime minister went public with Hungary's initiative to apply jointly to a Chinese state that is extremely interested in financing a project to rehabilitate the construction of a railway from Belgrade to Budapest. In the whole situation, I remind you that we already have funds from the Russian loan to rehabilitate the railways from Paza to Novi Sad, so that we will have that share from Novi Sad to Subotica and from Subotica to the border with Hungary, and the rest is the Hungarian project. Your next question was about Russian loans and trains. The Russian loan has not yet activated the train annex, so no train has yet been purchased on the basis of the Russian loan. As I said, Annex 1 was activated a month ago, which represents the construction of the second Belgrade-Pancevo track, with reconstruction of the Pančeva Bridge. The Republic of Serbia has provided its 15% to activate the loan. We're waiting for the job to end the Russian side, and by the end of the year, we should start working on the project. Regarding the purchase of trains from a Russian loan, that contract annex has not yet been activated and we haven't acquired any trains. In earlier years, other Russian trains were purchased on various grounds, and I have no information like the minister of traffic, here, there is Mr. Lasica, that they show any bad characteristics on our tracks. They behave on our tracks according to the condition on our tracks and according to how other trains behave. This information for the Zaječar train – Nis and 300 departures last year, I am not familiar with it, but I will ask for some serious information and about this fact and the circumstance to call for a bad remont and I will inform you about it. When it comes to Mr. Mirkovic, I answered your question. Mr. Mirkovic resigned. It's true, it wasn't resolved by the government. These days, a competition is ending to elect a ministerial assistant in most sectors, including the sector that is related to roads and security. After the competition, of the three candidates proposed to me on the basis of the competition, the government proposes to appoint a new assistant, which is my obligation under the law. Today he is with us here, on a team that defends these laws with me and Dr. Demir Hadzic, who is the head of the ministry and the man who received the highest possible grades in the competition and was proposed by the commission as the first candidate for the ministerial assistant election. When it comes to your discussion on the subject of Corridor East, the use of funds by European funds, first of all, I want to say that I think that our top priority right now is to end Corridor 10. We are careful that our traffic does not go through Bulgaria and Romania by finishing Corridor 10. I am aware that we have a great danger from Corridor 4 and the possibility that part of the traffic will go through Bulgaria and Romania also, as far as I know, crossing over the bridge alone is not so convenient and the access roads to the bridge on the one hand and on the other, are still not in full profile, so it is our priority to finish Corridor 10. I fully understand your desire to get into the project documentation of this new route that would go through eastern Serbia as soon as possible. I have to say, there was simply no space in the 2014 budget because at the position of the project, I couldn't get the funding and I didn't apply for the project, because it's the government's firm policy to do first of all these two corridors that are in progress and that only after that we enter a further story. We are also trying through the screening project and through the projections from 2014 to 2020, to enter certain opportunities and to finance ourselves from more serious European funds. I suggest that on the subject of what we really need for eastern Serbia, we sit down with the presidents of municipalities from that region, we will not tie it to the elections in Negotin, let us do it now. I repeat, I think that the strategic most important thing for Serbia right now is to end Corridor 10, because only Corridor 10 essentially prevents us from traffic going through Bulgaria and Romania, with respect for your position that it should connect both Corridor 4 and Corridor 10, but let us first finish Corridor 10. I would really like to be a minister who will finish some corridor, not open a new one, who will be tied to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26934	The word has been made by MP Zoran Angelkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26935	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is extremely important that we have one package of eight laws and agreements today. If we look at this list of draft laws and agreements that are here in front of us, it needs to be connected to what we did here in May when it comes to the Law of Railways. This is rounding one I would say a legal assumption that would allow something more to be done in this area. More specifically, one step towards more significant rail reforms, but also in the three most important sectors of water, air and rail transport. I have to say this law, it was now a controversy whether interoperability or compliance, but anyway, the point is that we're actually preparing for the fact that no matter how someone observes you, accepts you or not, that our locomotives can go abroad, but that foreigners can come here. More specifically, to be perfectly honest, we are preparing a whole one structure, legal and supposition, whether it will come in a year or two, but it is quite clear for the liberalisation of the rail market. If we go back to the Law on Railways and connect to this Interoperability Act, it is clear that it is the Railways Directorate, and that was also the European Commission's request and the European Commission's representative that we have two regulatory bodies in fact. One is the Railways Directorate, and the other is the Railway Security Directorate, that it and this additional law receive additional powers, additional obligations, and it becomes, if I can thus say a strategic place that will take care of safety and also about licensing of everything that is extremely important for rail traffic. This, of course, includes strengthening the Railway Directorate, that regulatory body. Otherwise, when we talk about interoperability, of course there are unique rules, but in the previous Yugoslavia we didn't have the same. There are four types, if I may say so, of electrical power for locomotives. So the Slovenians adapted to the northern part of Italy that has a completely different current, and the rest of Yugoslavia went to another type of electricity, to 25 and a half kilowatts, but that doesn't matter, I speak more as a principle. I have to be honest, we have tried this principle of interoperability before the law in fact in some way in collaboration with the former minister and ministry, if I may say so. About two and a half years ago, together with European partners, we organised a train in Serbia, to Bosphorus, to Istanbul, with a multi-system locomotive that has all these different phases and different power plants across Europe. More specifically with one locomotive and that is the essence and it is a requirement of large business entities that one who loads lemon in Slovakia or... when loading something can reach Bosphorus or Serbia with one locomotive, without any crossings or problems at border crossings, to reach the factory circle. That's the essence of the problem today, if I may say railways. It's not the essence of the problem of transporting the speed of the railroad, it's the essence of safety and the essence is that it can simply plan for a certain number of hours to reach its goods, the arrival of its goods in the factory circle, which we now objectively have a problem. And Serbia, I hope, is already in this year a loan that has been going on for several years to provide 15 multi-system locomotives, and therefore Serbian railways will be able to cross the border tomorrow to take over goods in Serbia and the wolf anywhere in Europe with these multi-system locomotives, which should finally be completed from the IBRD loan. The safety of traffic and even safety on the railways, and I would say, together with the Law on Railways, that what the minister said, I fully support it here, and I think the ministry will have the power to complete at least one phase of restructuring by the end of the year. As for Railways, I know, there is a view that there is resistance to Railways, so of course there is resistance, but I wouldn't call it resistance, that's fear. The fear of the people of change is the fear of the people of change in society, all of them are for change until it comes to them, when it comes to them they say, "Well, don't right now, let's consolidate and then we'll reform, we'll consolidate on the railway for a hundred years." There's nothing to do with us being consolidated until the end, so let's reform. We must objectively implement reforms. Are we going to do this in one or two steps? It's not the most important thing for me, I think we should work in one right now, but it's not the problem, let's do it in two steps, it's just that those two steps are not 15 years and five years, but they're one year, two years, because we've been preparing for this objectively for three, four years. And now, whether there is resistance to the railways or not, all the railway authorities have decided that there are three companies and a roof company of "The Railways" of Serbia, it is only a question of whether and when, as they say, we will step forward that the infrastructure that under the Law on Railways must be a separate company. What will be called -- Serbia's railways or Serbia's infrastructure, it's less important, but it has to be a separate company that works in the same way as the "Serbian Roads", they charge tolls on the highway, they keep roads from those pairs, and on the other hand, states through infrastructure big projects, if they want to build new railways, if they want to build new shares, if they have money to build new shares, it's built with those money. In the same way, the exact same principle of the infrastructure company should be like now "Serbia's Ways" and K10, when it comes to the highway. When it comes to passenger and freight. Travellers, it should function as city traffic works in Belgrade, not on GSP, but on urban traffic. We also have private carriers in the city of Belgrade, and we also have state carriers, i.e. GSP. And each other gets a mile across, and then they wouldn't come into this position to discuss whether 30, 50 or 100 railways were canceled, because when it's canceled, he won't get from the state for as many miles as it's been. Mandatory public transport is the difference between the real price and the cost of production. Therefore, the real prices and the economic prices of the tickets, and where is the greatest fear on the railway? In the liberalisation of cargo traffic, that's the point. To be honest, it's useful for the state and it's useful for the railways to get to liberalisation as soon as possible, better to get to liberalisation, so that we have the strength to strengthen the freight transport company than when foreign operators come to Kargo, and domestic operators in Kargo, and then the job is executed, and this company suddenly comes into a position that it can operate on economic grounds, that there's not enough work, because Kargo is operating on economic grounds everywhere. I have to be honest, I'm sorry that I often listen here to how much the railways get from the state, not because it's a lot of money or a little bit, every penny is a lot, but then we have to look at how much the rails are allocated in Europe. There is no state in Europe that does not allocate large funds to the railways. When I say railways, I don't mean Kargo, I mean infrastructure, I mean infrastructure maintenance, and mandatory public transport, for as many trains and as many miles as the state wants to finance, and there's half an hour, an hour, two hours. When it is settled, and we have one segment of a public transport commitment in Belgrade. When it's settled through the BG train, because you get a part of the funds that the city recognises for every mile that goes on the BG train, then we have 12 million passengers transported annually to the BG train. That's why it's important to have a city railroad, and because to be honest, no matter what my party buddies think otherwise, it's not good for Nis to have no city rail and no railroad in the middle. The other thing is that we need to put that railroad down and make a bypass for freight traffic, of course, but it's not good that one big city, if it wants to be, I don't mean by the number of inhabitants, but if it wants to be a metropolis in the right sense of the word, it should think and have a city rail tomorrow, because the subway isn't real. So we better have what we have, to build up, in the extreme case that both Belgrade and New Belgrade are split in half, it's just a matter of underpasses, overpasses, sound insulation, environmental isolation, and it's not just about the railways, but as the state decides, that's how things are going to happen. In the end, let us remind ourselves, by adopting the Law on Railways, and also now this law on heroperability, this Parliament decides what and in what way the five-year plan is to be adopted, what will be built and how the railways will be built, how new and old will be maintained, because it does not decide the railways or anyone else on the side, but rather, this Parliament decides. I think that in that sense, I believe that by completing these legal projects that we are adopting today, and that is why the SPS will support, we are creating one condition to complete and restructure and provide all railway licenses and create preconditions that the Serbian Railways can be a competitor in tomorrow's liberalisation of railway life, if I may say so in Serbia. Just one piece of information to say, such a railroad, etc. You know what, 4,000 kilometers away, there's got to be a reconstruction of the railroad once every 20 years and it's got to be done, and that's 200 kilometers. From 2000 to today, we perform 13.5 kilometers of reconstruction a year and that's the average. From 1990 to 2006, we're not much at that time, and then worse, and then of course it's not a good railroad, so, well, it's not in itself that it can't be a good one or a good one. The minister spoke of it even when the road was not fixed and the holes were not clothed, and it was destroyed, let alone the tracks. I mean, the railroads basically have two lives. Every railroad in the world, including ours, has this inner life, this liquid life, where it needs to provide income for wages, for basic functions, and this other life, which is infrastructure, investment, which is a matter of state and development projects of a country that works on that side. I have to be honest, there was a project here once. You know what, projects cost money, and that's the point. You get a loan for investment, but you have to provide money for projects, and projects aren't simple at all. What the minister said, yes, we have a project for Belgrade-Panchevo, we have another six shares for Valjevo-Loznica, to be honest, we have a project, but because the Russian side accepted, thanks to Minister Mr Mrkonjic, who insisted that they charge it through the total works of these projects, because 15 million Railways could not have provided, if that were not the case. That's to be honest. The one that provides credit, whether it's the IBRD, the World Bank, they say, first you have to have a project to secure money and build a project, and then only to provide participation, and that includes a Russian loan of 10%, to work 15%. So 15% is participation, and for Chinese it's 10%, so you start working. If you don't pay 15% of your participation, then you don't. I read this for 200 kilometers, this about the Prime Minister, and then I read the reaction of one of the presidents of the railway union, and he attacks the Prime Minister, about 200 kilometers, there's no railroad, and that just means he lives in 1948, and that's the key problem of a structure that lives on the railway in 1948, not in 2005, 2010 but in 1948. One who doesn't dream, who doesn't have a dream, that he's having a dream, and I'm dreaming that my generation or that some next one is going to drive 350 an hour, should dream. The one who doesn't know he's dreaming about nothing or not. One who doesn't have a goal can't achieve anything. We must have a goal that the next generation will ride in Serbia over 200 an hour. We have to have a goal of driving to Vienna in three hours. We have to have a goal of driving to Nis in an hour. If we don't have a goal, why are we sitting here? What, like, let's see how to fix a hole, how to fix a railroad, not drive. Come on, from feudalism, let's skip capitalism right now, and go into some socialism. If it's easier for you, let's go from socialism to capitalism, how much easier, just to make one more significant step. I drove 431 km from Shanghai to the airport. I was driving 300 in Italy, but let's at least have 200. Give us at least 200 to have a goal. That's our goal. Don't patch it up, just give us something big to do. In the end, building 200 per hour or 160 per hour is a relief of the travel economy, it is a reduction of major accidents per Serbia each year. Here, both ministers know better information about how many people die on highways and roads. The railroad is, if I may say so, the safest. Imagine if we had a 15-minute train to Novi Sad, or an hour to Nis which is 200 an hour, so who would take the highway? Who's crazy? No one's crazy. But our mission is as an MP and as a government, and as those we choose, to believe it, to believe in that goal and to make it. I believe it, too. That's why I support the Prime Minister. Whether Chinese credit or Chinese licenses, or Chinese concessions or Russian or European, if that's what you're interested in. These young people in Serbia are not interested either. They're interested in where they have a railroad like that. If I can drive in second place 300 and 400, I can drive in Serbia at least 200 per hour, because I care that the young generation stays here. Both my children and your children in Serbia, not go where 300 per hour is driven. So that you don't go around the railroad any more than you do about these other things. I said a little while ago, it is this Law of Ways short, but very significant. The point is, it's not just what I said earlier, and the minister said he was 13, on the other hand, 12 pumps. We all heard how to make that rule, etc. We have here at "Arena", can't turn around at "Arena" and pump in front. Right? It couldn't have been that way. If it's on the DUP of Belgrade, then it's a treasure to whoever drew that DUP. But I don't think so. But I said Poyate. How is it possible, NIS here, at 50 meters private pump? How is that possible? Well, that's not possible. It's possible, obviously as soon as it's made. In this law, it wouldn't be possible. The minister was only talking about gas stations. We need to think about how to keep those tens of thousands of people, at least in the summer period, when they pass from Europe to Turkey, in addition to the gas station. How come we don't have just one "Mek" from Belgrade to Nis, but we have three, four five, that we have other contents that will ensure that these people stop by and spend money. We fly tens of thousands of passengers towards Turkey, Greece, it doesn't matter, either from the top up, or from the bottom down, they drop in somewhere, they don't usually do it, and we charge the toll, and we're satisfied. We need to find a way to get their money back. At least spend 10 euros, if not more, at 20 euros. If we don't have a state project, and what the minister suggested here, and the government to figure out where the contents are going to be, where there's going to be a pump, what's going to be next to the pump, if there's going to be a motel, if there's going to be any content, we won't take anything from them. We'll look at them in the meadows by the highway, in the sheets lying down and drinking water, and they're gone. We don't have any income. I guess we should think about getting our income. We don't have the sea to get the income. We have a highway. Well, at least let's get off that highway, when I say highway, I'm not just thinking about Corridor 10, I'm thinking about South Adriatic, and I'm thinking about where it goes fast. As soon as the highway is built, they have regular cafes as you know, we need to come up with some extra content. And we don't have to figure it out. We saw how much they make between Austria and Hungary, more specifically between Hungary and Italy, and one and the other motel on the side, left and right. It's full all the time. A hundred cars, and they come by, and they pour fuel on us, and they have nothing to do. There's no content. That's why this is important, and that's why I think it's extremely important this law, and not just from the point of view of what some peasant is going to take 50,000 euros per ar, if it's a pump, and this is how it's going to take 500, but also because we have to think that the state is going to have an extra income from VAT and that something else is going to be sold to these foreigners, which are going to pass, and also ours, of course. First of all, I'm thinking about these from abroad. Of course, I don't want to discuss these agreements because agreements are very important, but let's just say about these sailors. You know, I don't know exactly the data, I'm glad I heard here that it's 5,000 people but I know a lot of sailors and celebrities who work on boats, a lot of those staff who work on boats and in Croatia take licenses and through Croatian companies do all that, as staff in restaurants, etc. in these great ones, as they would say, not this one that was at Venice, but these other ships. I think it's extremely important, it's a foreign exchange inflow, but it's also going to be important, it's an additional obligation to some medical institutions that get a license, but it's an additional income in the extreme case that they can provide. I'd say his name, whether it's maritime or not, it's nothing controversial, we're a maritime land in the end of the day, as soon as we go out to sea, whether we're across the sea, but when we sit on the Danube, we come down to the sea, we land, who has a yacht. Whoever doesn't have a yacht, sit on the boat, but still, they'll come to the sea. Palma made it, there's a piece of sea in Greece so we got somewhere. Of course, when it comes to these agreements between the Russian Federation and Ukraine, it is important that it could be made in fact, this agreement is the assumption that "the railways of Serbia" can in fact contract traffic immediately directly, not that special contracts are made and that different freighters are taking more money. Thanks again, I'm saying we're gonna support all this pact law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26936	Thank you. Mr. Lapchevic, on what basis are you answering?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26937	Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26938	I don't see a basis for replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26939	Mr. Angelkovic was saying something that...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26940	I know, he didn't mention you personally, he didn't mention the party. The word is from the MP Zlata Djeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, as you yourself have said, 70 days in office, you have taken over a resor who is truly powerful in economic terms, but you have also taken over problems that are not only older than your mandate, from the mandate of the previous minister, but I am afraid that they are older than our young democracy and perhaps from the years of many of the MPs present here. So, traffic problems are constantly being solved, and no matter how good we have the will to solve them, there will be some new ones again, but of course, our tendency should always be to make this economic branch profitable, to modernise it and see it in the EU system as a powerful business branch that introduces us to a big door into a world of powerful states. So here's only one thing I'm going to do first and first to comment on the first law in this set of eight laws, which we've all been commenting on today, is this name interoperable, so we all agreed that it's something rogue, something other than that. I have to say, as a philosopher, that I'm rebelling and I'm disgusted to hear that we don't talk anymore than chat, that we don't Google, we don't search, we don't love, and I'm afraid we could do a little bit more effort, but this is just a free observation now that I see that many colleagues have responded to it, and you, Mr. Minister, have found a word and we have a word. It is about pervading, because it interoperablely means the possibility, the ability to work together, that within one system, more systems work together, it is literally its meaning, meaning inter-between operations and work, so it is translated, meaning the persuasion of the system within the rail, it might be the most approximate of our language, so we may as well as the Croats do in our practice, to preserve something from our language tradition, but, my God, so many of these professional names have been incorporated into our legislative practice, so that this, apart from being difficult to excuse, will not change much at the very quality of the law. This law certainly was necessary because the law that is in force is 15 years old, and we talked yesterday about a law that has been in force for 20 years. So many political and economic state circumstances have changed over this period and the needs have changed, so the need for this law is certainly important at this point. This law cannot be observed separately from the Law of Railways. These are two common continents and only together can function fully. This law harmonizes railway safety with European legislation and European practice. That's how we saw it. That is the need, because Serbia's railway is in the European rail system. She's got all these problems we talked about today. These problems will not be solved by this law either. These problems we've been talking about can only be solved by serious financial means. How do you get those funds? It is, of course, the responsibility of the state and government to make its railways more competitive and profitable, above all, in international traffic structures. What's true and it has to be said here, which is that indeed all the rail systems, all of Europe's countries, subsidize their countries. They may not be called subsidies there, but they're being helped by the state. Nowhere is rail profitable, but it's necessary to exist. Approximately, it's like a theater in no city is supported by sold tickets, but it's being held by the city because it needs it because of a lot of other things. That's right with the railroad. So, railways exist in all countries and only works for short information. For example, the Swiss are part of their railroad, the Swiss with all those incomes and the knowledge that they successfully economicize and deploy their budgets and finances, sold out, and that's the passenger part, to the Italians. So, without any complexes, respecting only what is the state's interest and above all what helps the state to continue to function well. Also, I'd like to say something about this short bill that you've proposed, amendments and additions to the Public Roads Act, and everything that's been said so far, I don't want to repeat myself. In any case, the interest of the budget is also respected and will allow bigger money to flow controlledly into the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's the first intention. The citizens' interest is that they will have the possibility of supplying fuel in that objective and adequate space. So everyone mentioned today the Poyate and some trouble with the pumps that broke down next to each other. Such pumps have been seen in many relations in Serbia. So, we know how this came about, but this is a problem that hopefully will, in due course, be a more successful solution in this way, first of all, by the state of Serbia, by those at the pumps, which are citizens who pour fuel and passersby, who in Serbia very often, travellers on their way from Europe to the Far East via Serbia. That third law, we're not talking about agreements, which is here today before us, which we least talked about is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Maritime Navigation. I come from a city that comes out of two state borders, meaning Sombora, across the Danube, towards Croatia and towards Hungary. We also have a lot of need to be interested in this law. I'll tell you more about the problems of shipping, because it's my duty as a MP, my mail has been addressed to me by citizens in both of these municipalities, indirectly and in the other two municipalities in our district. By the way, Mr. Minister, I'm taking the opportunity to ask you, I think it's in the announcement of your visit to Apatina. I was also invited to join you when you were visiting Apatina. I expect you to visit both captains, look at the problem of the port of Apatin, the possibility of building an port in Apatin, because building an port in Apatin would certainly contribute to the development, not only of the West Coast, but of the entire region of Vojvodina and beyond. That's what we're seriously expecting right now. We welcome in this law the licensing, which you have announced, of the agencies that have intervened. So far there has been, slightly said, one chaos, one horror, a huge abuse of people who have sought a way to work on ships. I would ask you not to take this information lightly. According to some knowledge, I don't think it's 5,000 sailors, but that their numbers are much larger, perhaps even twice as big. I could check it out for you. I'm not that familiar with this matter. I was in the Council on a float from 2005 to 2007. I also have a private familiarity with the Austrian company that recently bought a piece of "marhatel" in Hungary. So, I would ask you to consider this when adopting the amendments and perhaps even an amendment to the Committee. Do not throw away the possibility, or miss the opportunity for the Military Academy and our Shipyard School to remain training centres. Mr. Minister, all the housing that went to school here is the most respectable in Europe. That's why I got you guys out of where I got that information. The most respectable. Our shipmen sailing, sailors, our sailors sailing across Europe are very happy to be engaged in German, Dutch in Belgian companies. When you meet the ships of those countries, you'll see that it's a large part or necessarily part of the crew from here. It would be good if the Military Academy were more seriously involved in this. Indeed, by respecting what has arrived as an e-mail and what you have initially told all of us as MPs, I cannot reconcile and accept that some private training centres in Hungary, Slovenia, God forbid Montenegro will have better conditions and better staff training than we have at the Military Academy and Brodar School. It's supposed to be very serious here. Why do I tell you this? Because I know a case, say, one guy who's a third officer. So to become a third officer, to get a license, three thousand euros paid in Montenegro a test plus two thousand euros in accommodation. Five thousand euros. It's just one possibility. We, in that case, would, according to the candidate, break out of the budget. What I have as an obligation to pass on to you, which is what the owners of most shipping companies ask you to consider. Several of the problems they have, which they are trying to solve, to be competitive in European shipping, because you know that Europe's tendency to move more than 20% of road transport to water by 2020, which is more economically cost-effective, which drives one special business wheel and which is certainly more ecologically healthy, and we know how much Europe insists and works on it. This is how they say that legal and natural persons are mass registering their shipping companies abroad, especially in countries in the environment, in Croatia, BiH, Slovenia, Moldova, etc. due to overpriced taxis. Do they have more bills to keep their taxes down? Also, registration of a ship in Serbia costs as much as 10,000 euros, in BiH from 500 to 1,000 euros, in Croatia about 2,000 euros, in Moldova about 1,000 dollars or in Germany about 3,000 euros. So, do we have an account to let them register still outside our country? The checks are so expensive and incomparable every year with a checkup, for example, a German expert charged from 300 to 600 euros, with us from 3,000 to 4,000 euros. So these are some things that boaters ask you to look at. Also, they ask you to consider the possibility of accessing the construction of water gas stations. So that we can enable vessels using our waterways to supply boats, yachts, and ships with water fuel. Until now, it has been done exclusively so that, with the customs officer's assessment, which determines how much fuel they can load, they could bring fuel on their way out of the country. Of course that's not necessarily necessary then, but they leave room for doubt that there is a possibility of bribery and corruption. Also, what they are interested in is why our country does not introduce a reciprocal attitude towards the countries of Romania, for example, other countries that do not allow us to transport and transport goods under our flag as the third flag in transport, and we tolerate it in our shipping practice. So they certainly wanted to have the opportunity to meet with the minister of traffic, to bring out all these problems. It's a branch that's not as visible with us as rail and road traffic is, but it has great opportunities and great potentials. Of course, I think you'd have something to hear from them and that they would certainly have in you, first of all, a benevolent associate with the possibilities to at least solve some of their problems. I think you should make one meeting with JRB management, because it is a company that is third in importance and reputation in this part of Europe. They hire about 500 people. They don't have any subsidies. Live means exclusively from that traffic and you need to listen to what they have to say about these problems. So, as far as all these legal proposals are concerned, we know that they have been in the process of the National Assembly longer than you are the minister. I think you did a good job defending them today and predating them. We have a chance when they're being amended to talk about it. It is certainly a good intention and goodwill for all of us and for your traffic in Serbia to be an even more successful business branch, and on behalf of that, we, as the New Serbia parliamentary group, will support your proposals in the day of voting.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26942	Do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? No, I don't. ) The word has Minister Aleksandar Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26943	Thank you. Just to thank you for these two last discussions of Mr. Angelkovic and Mrs. Djeric and only very briefly to comment on a few things. I hope you understand the fact that this is my first set of laws that I defend against this House and I still obviously have a great enthusiasm to clarify everything and to try to understand everything and try to understand each other until the end, with the gratitude of both MPs, which will support the whole set of laws, just to look back on a few things. At the beginning, Mrs. Djeric, a meeting with the association of our carriers, the owner of a water transport and traffic company, please arrange with Mrs. Trifunović, with pleasure I will participate in such a meeting and many of these things you mentioned here today, I am extremely interested in making a step. First of all, I think it's time we got the first gas station on the water because I think it's scandalous what's been going on for years. I witness it every summer on the Belgrade rivers, where people carry fuel in canisters and it is neither safe nor human, nor responsible. It simply needs to be made possible for people, and a large number of people live and operate on water throughout the year, especially during the summer period. We are as a ministry for this segment fully prepared and with the Port Agency we are able to provide everyone who meets technical conditions and capacities to enter this business project. Unfortunately, we won't be able to accept the amendment regarding the emergency centres and the involvement of the Military Academy and the Shipyard School in this concept of apriority. The Military Academy and Brodar School have every opportunity to license themselves and to carry out the job in accordance with the law and regulations, as well as anyone else. I must remind you that at a time when this training and training are conducted, we have 250 criminal reports by the MAP for violations of the laws and other regulations in the training process and that we are under serious review by the European Maritime Safety Agency and that they are coming this month, 19th and 20th, and that these five or 10,000 people you are talking about can lose their ability to work on ships around the world because we as a state would question that training system and the licensing system. The Military Academy and the Shipyard School are absolutely welcome, but they have to be licensed, too. I believe it's easier for them to license themselves for this project than for anyone who would open such an emergency center to come from abroad. When it comes to this particular situation for the third officer, as you said, I must say that the Military Academy and Shipyard School had never been licensed before for this type of activity, because it was expertise, and they had only given basic knowledge in the past, so that it had to be called abroad before. We didn't create any new difficult circumstances here, but we're talking about an existing situation. I absolutely support everything else, and I am absolutely at my disposal to work on it. About what Mr. Angelkovic was talking about, when it comes to Nis, I repeat, we have about three ideas. One is the idea of the railroad not to touch anything, one is the idea of people from Nis to change everything, one is the idea of people from my ministry finding a solution that would be optimal and satisfying, first of all, people in Nis. It is my interest, above all, to please the people of Nis, and the railways will have to adapt to what the interests of the state and local self-government are. We can't all go around the railways, but vice versa, the railway will revolve around the cities, but it'll be one functional system where the train station won't be 20 kilometers from the city. They have to be in town and they have to be functionally attached to the city. You're very much, Mr. Angelkovic, right. We speak very uncritically of the amount of funds that stand out for the railroad. But not to play Pasic, you're all right, and you say it's not a lot of money, but also these people who say you don't know how to spend that money. De facto, we need to get out of the system where these are pay subsidies. For example, in Croatia, according to the data that we have, Croatia stands out about 300m euros a year, which is more than double what we single out. However, they do not do so through wage subsidies, but through infrastructure maintenance contracts and contracts for transported passengers. That's why they transport four times as many passengers as we do. I repeat, some policy of this ministry will be the restructuring of railways on the one hand, in the way I have spoken several times today and the other is the restructuring of our public finances and their roles in the rail system, where we need to get out of the subsidies and enter into concrete contracts. So much money under the maintenance contract, when you realize, will be paid, so much money under the passenger transport contract, when you realize, will be paid. I thank you for this first round and we are at your disposal for further discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26944	The word has a National MP Zlata Djeric, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26945	Mr. Minister, thank you for your understanding. I have no doubt of your well-meaning and your desire for sure to leave a mark in this vault. I see you have the energy to do that. I'm not going to call you hypocritically like you do in the railroad, so show me... Because you know what would happen? Now I'm just going to caricate a little bit about what would happen if you did some drastic discharge in a slow system like rail, inert and system that doesn't want to change. The unions would rise immediately, and then we politicians would go to meet the unions to crucify you. Of course, I'm joking about it. I wanted to ask you most well-intentionedly, it's a problem that can be broken down for a long time, but it's very clear that the third, second and first officers are the most expensive licenses and we have to fight to make it right here, since we have the Academy and the shipping school that we already have. If there is a problem, we as a state must fight to license them, but to get that money into Serbia's budget. That's what I was talking about. So the third, second and first officers' licenses are the most expensive. I happen to know a guy who's a third officer, so he told me about it. That was my well-intentioned suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26946	Thank you. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first registered speaker is MP Bojana Djordjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26947	Thank you. I would like to refer to the proposal for a bill confirming the Agreement on Air Traffic between the Republic of Serbia and Australia, as the President-in-Office, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, in my address today, in the framework of a joint principle and uniform search on a set of traffic laws. That agreement was signed on 14 May 2013 in order to fully regulate air traffic relations between the two countries. It is a modern agreement that contains elements of an open sky type that meet high standards in international and civil aviation. The agreement will open up the possibility for Serbia's air carriers to get a chance to carry out direct transport with Australia, but also with the United Arab Emirates, China and New Zealand. This proposal for a law first addresses specific issues: the provision of intermodal traffic, which gives parties the right to engage in any type of land transport to third countries, the provision of groundhandling services, the use of the right to determine the exact time of take-off and landing of aircraft to be assigned to the air carrier in order to carry out contracted traffic. I can also confirm the importance of this agreement as president of the parliamentary group of friendships with Australia, since I am fully aware of the overall relationship between our two countries. I remind you that the first bilateral agreement between the two states was signed back in 1900. Consular relations were established in 1941. Full diplomatic relations were established in 1966. The application and importance of this contract will most reflect on our diaspora in Australia, which has a long tradition. According to the last 2011 census, about 70,000 Serbs live in Australia, although the number is believed to be significantly higher and between 100 and 150 thousand Serbs, so the application of this agreement will certainly establish another strong bond between the queen and the diaspora. This agreement is not only important for our Serbs in Australia, but also for the overall improvement of political, economic, scientific and technological, cultural, educational, sports and other types of co-operation between the two countries. I believe that by establishing a plane line at Belgrade-Sidnej-Belgrade, Belgrade-Brizben-Belgrade and Belgrade-Melburn-Belgrade will show all the advantages of the agreement we are discussing today. Accordingly, the SPS parliamentary group will support that agreement, as well as the other draft laws set out in this principled search. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26948	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26949	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, if we know that the railway network in Serbia is more than a century old, if we know that half of all railways were built in the 19th century, if we know that only a third of the rail line is electrified and if we know that we have only 283km of two-wheel tracks, any proposal, and in particular such a quality proposal, I am pleased and will surely support something that brings modernization of our railways. We're all talking about problems 40 years ago. Well, there were. Let's get moving, give something modern and new, and I think this law is just something modern and new and something that also brings quality in the operation of rail traffic in Serbia. That is why we also support the government's measures and management measures, i.e. "The Railway of Serbia" management. Speaking of this law, first thing I'd like to say is this concept of interoperability. What's that? The ability of different systems to work together or, another definition, the ability of heterogeneous systems to work together as well as possible. In the Republic of Serbia and now in this area, the 1998 law, adopted by the Federal Assembly of the SRJ, is in force. The long-standing application of this law has shown many shortcomings that primarily relate to the inability to remove technical barriers to rail traffic, problems in establishing international rail traffic, as well as observed shortcomings and differences with EU regulations in this area. This shows that the main objective of this bill is to increase railway safety and integrate our railway into the EU rail system. Simply put, the bill defines the unity of the railway market, technical issues and safety conditions of transport that are in line with relevant EU acts in the area of rail transport. Here, above all, is thought of Directive 2004/49 on railway safety, Directive 2007/59 on the issue of machinery certifications and Directive 2008/57 on rail interoperability. This law, above all, defines the area of security the implementation of technical specifications for interoperability. It regulates the areas of accident and incident research, the authority of the notified body, the recognition of a transport safety certificate valid in EU countries, the introduction of a register for railway vehicles and infrastructure and others. The draft law provides for development and improvement on rail and improving access to the railway market in the following way: harmonisation of regulation with EU countries, the development of common security objectives and the method of improving harmonisation of the rules laid down in national rules, defining the responsibilities of all participants in rail traffic and defining common principles for the management and regulation of safety on rail and surveillance. Also, the bill in all segments governed by the law pays great attention to areas of environmental protection. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Roads for Motor Vehicle Supply becomes an integral part of public roads, unlike the existing solution, where they are part of the accompanying content. In this way, additional funds shall be provided to the public road manager on the basis of compensation. Bills, pipelines, oil warehouses, oil bases are placed in infrastructure systems. Also, in accordance with Directive 2004/54/EC, which deals with minimum tunnel security conditions, it prescribes appropriate government-led acts. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Navigation requires our country to, as a signator of the Convention on the Labour of Seamen, bring domestic legislation into line with the relevant provisions of the Convention on the Labour of Seafarers, which concern the granting of authorisation to legal persons carrying out maritime employment activities, the issue of maritime working time, the issue of working and living conditions on board, as well as the issue of procedures from the Party of Seamen. The draft law defines the powers of a medical institution to review seamen in accordance with the requirements of the Convention, the International Maritime Organisation and the World Health Organisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26950	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojic Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26951	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With the minister gone, all I have to do is dream that the minister is here, so I can tell him the remarks I made.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26952	Mrs. Vojic, I can do you a favor and give you a word. The minister will be back.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26953	No, it's okay. I'll do my job. The fact that others don't do their job, that's not my problem. On several occasions, this congregation spoke of the condition of the railways. We had a few months ago, more specifically in January 2013, the Convention on the Participation of Serbian Railways in International Traffic, and we had several laws concerning the adoption of loans for railway infrastructure. This time there's a big law ahead of us, and that's why I wanted to talk about the Law on Railways first of all, even though this, as modern as it's said, is wrapped in a package, so you have a little bit of everything, and there's nothing you can actually talk about. Thinking it's very important and very important to talk about the safety of rail traffic and talk about what we should do in the future, because I also belong to those who like to dream but I like to have numbers in front of me, so when I have numbers, then the gods are silent and I plan on doing so. What I'm saying is that this law is very, very much like the 2005 law. The 2005 law, experts say, was very good. He announced reforms, tried to divide the system, tried to enter into a system of very many elements of modern railways, but what he fell to and what this law would fall on is what he was planning to do. It's that he wasn't relying on the facts that our system has and it's not a matter of whether or not a system wants to change. No system according to the laws of physics wants to change until it cracks. But it just seems to me that it's very important when we're planning and when we want to improve something we're taking care of what we are right now. My impression, not just my impression, but also the very professional people who worked with me on this bill, is that the law is as if it was written for another country, for another system in another world. I want to say a few parameters I'd like to start with before I start criticizing. Today, the railways have 3,809km of railway networks, 1,708km of freeway tracks, electricity is only 32.7%. Don't you think that's a little bit? Yes, it's very small. Only 45% of the track has a 22.5-tonne axle load allowed, while at 30% of the track is a very high percentage. That load is below 16 tons. Only 7% of Serbia's railways have two tracks. That's 276 kilometers. Only 3.2% of the railroad, so much rail trains can drive 100 kilometers per hour, dreamt not, so much came to it, and most of the railroads are those where trains can develop up to 60 kilometers. At 16% of the network, trains can drive at a maximum speed of 30 kilometers. That's 535 kilometers. At these 535 kilometers, our railways had to declare a point, 320 points where they were driving light-driving. What's your easy drive? It's that ride up to 20 and 30 kilometers. This is what is called the 21st century in Serbia, and what is called the early 19th century in European railways. If we exclude two directions, it is Belgrade – Shid and Great Plan – Nis, which are also electrified and have two tracks, on all other parts of the 100km we cannot develop, except in our sleep. I have to say, even in these two directions, we have points where you drive below 30 kilometers. Why am I saying this? These are real facts, and we in this law in the first Articles of the 3rd to 5th are talking about some commercial speeds and those speeds are 200 kilometers, and the speeds are 250 kilometers. Excuse me, where can we fit into that system on our tracks? It's just that it's not our system, and we can't just walk into that system. In particular, we can't just walk in if in 10 years we spent 168,000,000 euros in the modernisation of the infrastructure, i.e. only 136km of railways. In Serbia, even the Russian locomotives that someone tried to talk about today are broken down in a very pessimistic way, it is not a problem that we took the bad locomotives, but it is a problem that they can drive below 50km, and on our tracks they drive below 50km and that's why they break down. What system can we talk about if these are the parameters that I brought out here? Do we think that this system will raise its capacity if we adopt this law, the way it is? It'll happen on its own. I have to tell you since 1957, that is, Europe has been practically making its own single traffic policy. Today he can talk about the speeds he speaks of over 200 kilometers and so on. and that's just certain countries. We think when we adopt the law, that we will step out immediately and that we will immediately move on these high European standards, for us too high European standards, or think if we adopt the directives of recommendations and all other things will happen on their own. He won't. There are a lot of things we have to do ourselves, and that's why I welcome what you say -- let's do and let's agree to do, but we have to make a strategy of what we want and we have to make a law that's going to be applicable to the system that we're talking about. In article 62 relating to a signal security device and technical conditions, also completely unrealistic planning. In points 2, 3 and 4, you are talking again about Serbian railways at an unprecedented speed of 100 to 160 kilometers per hour, and you are saying that our security signals will also follow this. Of course not, because our security signals are at speeds of 40 to 60 kilometers, not more than 80 kilometers, and we need to stay there. What are we gonna do with those signal devices? How are we going to ensure these if our men are killed at the crossing points, if our crossings are unsecured? I don't have the exact information, but I come from Valjev, there every year you have at least four or five victims at the crossing points. I'm just saying, let's see what we're up against, and then we'll dream. It's easy to dream, but you have to do something in the meantime. A few more data before I comment further. The railroad officially has 480 locomotives, and 8500 freight cars and 550 passenger cars. It's mostly about old and very unreliable vehicles where the heat is flying, in the winter ice. There were some accidents mentioned, and I don't want to go into it any further, but it's simply about the vehicles we have to get in and realize what you wrote in this law. I can't believe this is exactly the kind of car I've given us, and I have to say that, say, student train so-called. Belgrade's Beovod has a three-and-a-half hour drive from Belgrade to Valjev, where it has ideal conditions for three hours 100km. That's amazing. What will change and how will we finally begin to respect the timetable? How are we finally gonna start getting trains going when it says? It's incomprehensible to me from what you wrote. Then you say in article 79. – device and equipment of travel cars and specify what they should have. You're saying they should have a lighting device, heating devices, probably ironing devices, so you don't mean sanitary hygiene devices. I don't know if the MPs here almost drove our trains, but the citizens certainly did. Sanitary devices have trains, but they're not hygienic and that's what you first meet when you get on the train. I don't know if now that you've listed all these things that need to be owned by those vehicles, will you rule out traffic for those who don't? I'm afraid then you'll stay with a terrible little car and we'll have problems. Then, members from 84 to 88 are the conditions that railway workers must meet, and these are the members who are talking about professional training, especially in article 88, where you are talking about regular professional training checks carried out twice a year for railway workers. Now you suggest it be once a year. My assessment and assessment of people who have been in the profession for years is that this too long a deadline, that people will relax and that it is very important that professional training is really checked at least once a year. That's what they say in the system, it holds tension, and that means that people are really going to be trained to keep their jobs. That's very important. Secondly, what remains unclear, from the law, I failed to see it, you're talking about centres that will deal with professional training from now on, and you're saying that it will be companies, other legal entities. You offer, of course, the conditions they must meet in order to do so. It seems to me that you forget that you have a resource and that this resource is inside the railway and that it's people who have been in the system for years and who know very well what people need to know about railway workers and forget to use that resource. Here it seems more like a possibility for someone else to get that job on the side, and it has always proved in practice that what is obtained in the system is completely adequate knowledge and fully applicable knowledge. So we're all, and you and I on this side, fully aware that training is the key to success, that trained people are very important to the system, so I'd like to get an answer as to how is it possible for us to say the director of the internal control on the railway to be a gypser who finished some sports management and got a job in such a very, very responsible and important place, the director of internal control? Do the same terms of employment apply to him? Not to list the other 174 new employees during this government. The titled chapter – Research of accidents and incidents for investigations are 119th to 127th members. That was an important and very crucial part to me, especially a member of 119th, he's a key member of this. For us, these are important things because when situations like this occur, incidents, it is very important to have a very clear procedure in advance and to know how to react. It is very important to define how it should react. I'm staying unclear with this body for an investigation, so I'd like to ask simply if someone would try to answer - who's forming a body for an investigation? You're saying that, in the opinion of the 8th member, he's going to have major resources. I ask – who provides these resources? Where do these resources come from? Then how many members does that body have? Which are the profiles, you're only talking about once, that it's going to be the lead investigator, and that even, you're saying in the condicional -- that it should be the man who dealt with the team, don't say it has to, and that's very important. Furthermore, in Article 120(2), you say – that they should not make assumptions. Well, I guess that means they shouldn't make assumptions. Their work is facts. You in that article in 19 have so many things that are completely cloudy, and for me, these are key things, and I think it's important that you clear them up. It says – the scope of the investigation and the procedure in conducting these investigations is determined by the authority for the investigation. So, the body you started just determines what it's going to explore. Well, he didn't, did he? I guess he's getting some kind of assignment. I'm not gonna go on about it because I'm gonna waste my time, and I'd like to talk about it when we talk about the amendments. Very pointless sounds like the next attitude. You say, in Article 125, it refers to the obligations of a railway undertaking to investigate an accident or incident. So now the railway company is also setting up a commission, a body that will deal with this, and now watch out, in attitude one, you're saying that his task -- anything that's not the body for the investigation, is supposed to be done by this commission. So I just don't understand how many times we're going to go, how many of these things are going to have to happen on the same trail of this thing. I just can't believe it. But I think we need to get this straight, and I think it's good to get answers to this. Let me not further detail, but I want to say my basic impression of the law, and I want to say what I think should be done so that the rail system would finally be a system that goes forward because that's how we plotted it, because we invested in it, because we planned it well, not because it says so in the law, so it's only going to happen by itself. So it is very important to pass a law that is applicable, that will move the system and that will introduce it into reforms. My impression is that this law is not applicable. He's telling a nice story, but he's not applicable, and we, the DSS, have submitted over 30 amendments to this bill, hopefully we'll be able to talk about it later. Furthermore, rules with the EU need to be harmonised and you are constantly doing so, but before that, you need to modernise the system. The system needs to be modern so we can coordinate it. I don't understand how we're going to bring this system into line with the standards we talked about. The last minister told me-- well, fine, but we want to do it, we'll do it, we'll go ahead. Nothing happened in the meantime. Then, significant funds should be invested in the railways and these loans are part of it, but more funding needs to be found and there is a way to modernise it. What's really crucial to me, professional people need to work in the railroad and run the railroad. We can't all work at the railroad. I say to myself that I can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26954	The word is by the MP Slavoljub Vlajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26955	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, before us today, along with other legislative proposals, is the draft law on the interoperability of the railway. In European regulations interoperability means the full compliance of the system that should contribute to the adequate functioning of the rail system, i.e. rail traffic in general, especially when it comes to high rail speeds. Serbia's rail system and rail traffic face a lack of modern infrastructure, in line with modern needs, not linking between the networks of the non-confidential system, so that they do not meet the full expectations of users of customer services. In order to address these other shortcomings, personal major efforts are needed on the way of improving the railway to better network the quality of high-security services and the opening of the national railway market. As a candidate country in the EU, we must be aware that in the rail transport in Serbia, the development tendencies of European countries' railways must be monitored in order to be able to participate equally in joint transport services at international level. The security area in our country's rail traffic is governed by the applicable Law on the Safety of Railway Traffic of 1998. Since then, the area of rail traffic has suffered major changes from which the latest occurred through the adoption of the Law on Railways in May of this year. The changes introduced in the new law are not sufficient in themselves, so that the adoption of other laws and sublaws that will be governed by this area, which follow this roof law, because a good legal framework creates conditions for improving and modernising rail traffic and railway infrastructure. One of the most important reasons for the adoption of this law is the need for further harmonisation of RS rules with relevant EU rules in this area. The most important directives of the European Commission relating to the safety of interoperability of rail traffic need to be incorporated into domestic regulations. These are, above all, Directive 2004/49/EC of the European Commission on railway safety, Directive 2007/59 on the issue of certificates to machinery operators, as well as Directive 2008/57 on inertibility. The harmonisation of the EU-wide traffic rules aims to restructure and set up a comprehensive and balanced transport system that is adapted to the EU, ensuring co-ordinated work and development of the traffic system and markets. In addition, it should be noted that Serbia needs fast privatisation of rail and rail infrastructure, by establishing a unique, efficient, competitive and safe railway space, to establish the quality of the network of passenger and goods transport services, as one of the cheapest and most environmentally painless modes of transport. When it comes to safety of rail traffic, I would refer to the burning problem facing a city from which I come as the largest city south of Belgrade. The town of Nis is an important traffic hub in this part of the Balkans. Its territory crosses extremely important roads and routes from Western Europe to the east and south of the continent. Let me remind you that there is an international rail line crossing Nis for Sofia, Thessaloniki, Istanbul. This is of great importance in terms of passenger and transport traffic. This importance of Niša as a intersection of international roads in the coming years will increase further when the construction of Corridor 10 is completed. It should be recalled that the construction of the roadway is accompanied by a plan to build a railway corridor. Although these facts clearly point to the importance and potential of the geographical position of Nis when it comes to road and rail traffic, the city of Nis faces a major problem with railway infrastructure. Namely, Nis is today one of the few cities in the world through which the centre passes the railway line. By all accounts, the railway will be divided by Nis in two for a long time, while trains will be tumbling through the city, now at 50, and soon probably by 100 kilometers per hour, and citizens in residential settlements will feel earthquakes in their homes every half hour. In addition, all of us are seriously reminded that in the past three decades more than 30 people have died crossing the railway. We are aware that the removal of the railway line from the centre of Nis is a serious and expensive project that implies both the electrification of the route, but we expect that the JP "Trains of Serbia" will have an understanding for the implementation of this project. In that sense, on behalf of the citizens of Nis, I ask that the Ministry of Transport, through its investment plans for the next period, sees this for the City of Nis also an extremely serious problem. Realisation of such a project must also be part of the commitments Serbia has made as a commitment to modernising rail transport and railway infrastructure, so that as a country that is a significant transit route from the north to the south and east of the continent, we would be more concrete in the area of rail traffic. With the belief that this law is another step closer to establishing European standards in the area of rail traffic, the SPS parliamentary group will support the bill's proposal in the day of voting, as well as other laws in these joint searches. Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for these three possible solutions, because I think that's the right thing to do, because we have, in the end, a congregation decision and I think that together with the Ministry, we will find the best solution for the City of Nis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26956	Dusan Obradovic isn't here? The word is Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26957	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the framework of this united debate, I will only remain on the proposal for a law on the protection and security of the railways. As we have repeatedly cited today, we all know that Serbian railways are in very poor condition, that the railway network is in some parts older than even a century. What is also frightening is the fact that only 283km of railways is two-way, and also an example that in the last three decades of the year only about 36km of rail was remounted on average, and that it was planned to be remounted about 191km of railways annually. We can calculate that 30 years back each year has been remounted about 155 kilometers of track. Just from what I stated as a result, and of course it had to be kept and maintained the safety of traffic on the tracks, it happened that on the tracks it had to be introduced so-called. The light-driving mode, which means we now have a situation where our trains are moving at an average speed just about 40 kilometers per hour. Also, another thing that does not contribute to the railway is that the average age of tow cars and passenger cars is over 30 years. However, while the "Serb Railway" has been in a very bad state for years, the official report I received from the "Serb Railway" for the past year brings a slight shift and hope that we may be able to make a move in this area as well. Namely, the report "Serb Railway", which I received for the previous year, said that on June 30th 2013, the number of slow rides was reduced by about 13% compared to June 30th 2012. A number of works have also been published on the railway repair, such as the machine regulation of the track at about 634km, has also been replaced around a kilometer of rail fields, and four road crossings have been replaced. As a result of all the above, the report says that a transport income that has been increased by about 16% compared to the previous year, while total income has been increased by slightly more than 7%. Also, it states from all accounts that the expenditure relative to the previous year has been reduced by about 12%. The bill that lies before us today is another step that harmonizes our laws and regulations with EU laws. So far, the current law, which regulated the area, was adopted long ago in 1998 and adopted by the federal parliament in the then-SRJ. One of the main objectives of this law is to increase security and integrate Serbian railways into the EU rail system. Also, the bill aims to comply with the Law on Railways, which was adopted in May of this year. As far as the text of the law is concerned, I'll look back on just some of the members. For example, the provisions of Articles 37 to 43. The proposal for this law has been arranged to manage safety through rail traffic. Then, the provisions of Articles 44 to 53 are closer to the term, content and method of issuing a safety certification for the management of railway infrastructure as well as the recognition of foreign licences, as well as the method of withdrawal of certificates. The provisions of the 62 to 66 of this proposal also regulate traffic control, i.e. traffic signalling and rail telecommunications networks. The most common problem and accidents related to rail traffic are currently happening due to the poor functioning of this signalling and the fact that no ramps are working on the tracks. I also think it is very important that this area is arranged and this bill is exactly what it is. The members from 75 to 83 are closer to determining the maintenance of trains. The adoption of one such law clearly defines all the elements relating to traffic security itself and I repeat that this law is a alignment with EU law. The Serbian Progressive Party will certainly support the adoption of one such law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26958	MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26959	I thank Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, ministers, the fifth point is a united debate. Within this point are three laws: the Law on Railways, the Law on Navigation and the Law on Public Roads. I'll focus on the Public Roads Act, since my colleagues have already talked about previous laws. The amendments and additions to this law include eight members who are changing. At first, I must point out one fact, Mr. Minister, that this law has not passed a public debate. The legislator says these are changes that are not of interest to Serbian citizens. I think that these are also important changes and are of interest to the citizens of Serbia and they are interested in the professional public, because these are fundamental changes, not formal and cosmetic, as someone calls them. Therefore, let us start from the beginning, relating to Article 2, a legislative provision that provides for the implementation of motor vehicle fuel stations within public roads. What's the state gonna do? The state will try to expropriate land at individual locations, by then renaming the land as building land and offering the land for auctionation. They will offer certain businessmen, in a modern dictionary, businessmen are called tycoons, or individuals who will apply for these locations. I'm trying to explain that this system isn't good, since I'm coming from a small place and I know how the bidding works there. There comes a local sheriff, a badge, with his camel, slapping his slaps on those who are in the room and taking a business space or land on the most favourable terms. I hope that the state will do this bidding in one correct way, because the law does not state how it will work and who will do it, and I hope that by some sublaw you will define it. The second thing I want to talk about is a legal provision that changes in Article 6 and talks about emergency transport and permits. It is said that the minister will be the one who will be able to prescribe the rules, then acts and deadlines, and he will extend the permits himself. I'm afraid as a country, we're going into an indistinguishable situation. So the EU has proposed to us that we pass anti-corruption laws. This is one corrupt law, where one individual is allowed to make all those rules, no matter who the minister is. In other times, the minister will change, but we need to pass quality laws that will allow our generations to say that it is a quality and good law. For these reasons, I assume that all eyes will be against that minister and his work will be subject to suspicion. To avoid that, we as a party offer a solution. It would be best if you had formed one operating body, one commission, a normal government to form and to have experts come into that commission or to have people involved in this work. It would be an adequate legal provision that you should have implemented in this law. You know that Serbia is 83rd in a degree of corruption in the world and one such corrupt law will just contribute to Serbia being even higher, at a higher level. We're talking about public roads, and it's incorrect not to say anything about the problems on Corridor 10. I'm from Jablani County. I assume you know about the problems that are happening on that track. You were just saying that the most critical part of it is from Grdelica to Vladica's Han and I kind of want to talk about these problems, the problems of those people that are on that track. I've talked here many times about the citizens of the Predian town protesting the Corridor 10 route, which bypasses that town. You know that we all MPs here advocate, you as a government, declared evenly regional development. This way, since the Corridor 10 route bypassed Predejana's town, you treat these citizens like a stepmom. As a local self-government, we reacted several times to change the course, even submitted an idea project. However, the government and business dealing with this problem have not accepted. I hope, if you don't accept and listen to the wishes of these citizens and local self-government, you will encourage the eviction from those areas. I also have to tell you to suggest one important thing, that a member of your political option, otherwise the president of the Leskovec City Assembly, filed a criminal complaint against your member, former minister, Mr. Mr. Mr. Mrkonjic, who, I see, is not in the O.R., as well as against the former Minister of Spatial Planning, Mr. Dulic. The second problem that has happened recently, these days, is related to the Rodericks Corridor Association, that's what it's called. Citizens who were supposed to enter their property were stopped by the police. They don't mind, they know there's a course to go, no prejudice whatsoever. But they don't want to be second-class citizens, they want to be respected. They have a decision by the basic court of Leskovci, which says the state must pay for some of the standards. However, the company carrying out these works does not want to pay them according to those standards brought by the founding court. They even dared and sent a memo to the president of the court to influence the judge who made such a decision. So they want to talk to someone, but no one has received them, nor has anyone called to take them in and listen to them. Here's a chance, Mr. Minister, that you, as one of the resolute ministers who is related to this issue, receive these people to explain the problem to you. I must say and point out that Velimir Ilic pointed out the desire to see these people, but we need to set up a meeting. The deal was for you to attend that meeting, too. So, the Democratic Party of Serbia, as far as these laws are concerned, will not support, as you have heard from the discussion of my distinguished colleagues that these laws should come out of the process and still need to be completed. We sort of responded to the amendment and sent you a message that we have a certain concept of these laws. I hope you will consider these amendments and that you will accept a number of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26960	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26961	If you don't think that by nature I thank things for all the discussions, I really feel that they are all well-intentioned and in order to find the best possible solution, so thank you for these three discussions. Unfortunately, I haven't been able to hear much of Mrs. Milice Vojic Markovic's discussion. I'm sitting here for the first time as a minister, but it's an impossible system in which you expect the minister to sit here every minute of this debate without being able to leave this room for a few minutes. I haven't really been out of the O.R. since the start of the debate, and I'm very bothered by the comments that you're going to be discussing it even though the minister isn't doing his job. I don't think that's really correct. That's not correct, since I've been here since this morning and every minute I've been here, except for those few minutes. Maybe we ministers should form a union, too, so we have the right to a collective contract to leave the gym for a few minutes. My associates have noted all your remarks and we will consider them. I have to say that the amendments have been very seriously analysed and that a number of amendments have been accepted to the text of the law, but we will talk about this after the debate is over in principle. So already at the Ministry, some amendments have been accepted and directed to the government. What I wanted to comment on is from the domain of what I heard and that it seems important to me – the body for the investigation of the accident. Yeah, that's a very important question. The body will be formed by some other regulation, whether by law or by any government regulation. What seems to be a most optimistic solution, since we have a body to investigate air traffic accidents, and we have an obligation to form it both in water traffic and in rail traffic, so maybe it's some concept and some solution to make that body have one serious system and one serious organization, that it explores and the worst accidents in all kinds of traffic. Otherwise, the carrier, the operator, they will continue to investigate those incidents that are of lower intensity and lower character. I hope the accident investigation body doesn't have any work to do, but it'll only be the hardest ones to investigate. Katarina Rakic has had one report with many elements on progress in certain segments of the functioning of the Railway, which I am familiar with and which I support. Of course, there is still room for us to improve all this, and I hope that the Railways along with the Ministry and the Railway Directorate will be dedicated to systematically promoting things. What I think should be our short-term priority is to solve the road crossings. What's the problem, I've already said, is that out of 2,500 of these crossings, only some 480 are fully taken care of. We've got a lot of problems on them, too. We've got thefts on our gear, so then we've got to work these things out on an intervention basis. What I think might be a short-term solution that would reduce the risk of each of those 2,489 road crossings being arranged by a serious lying cop who would de facto slow down traffic and affect increased traffic safety. I'm going to go out with such an initiative both towards "Serbian Ways" and "The Railways". I think it could, I repeat, slow down traffic and make traffic users pay attention and see if anything's going on on the tracks. It's not some serious solution and a system solution, but it can give a certain effect. Finally, Mr. Alexander Paycic, the question of Prediana, Gredice, Bajja. When it comes to Predian, you know, it's a thing that's long been solved. I was welcomed by the following situation – that the thing went too far, that it was adopted after that idea project and the main project, that a tender procedure, defined contractors and that the project was in realisation. I just don't know which way and I have the best intention of doing it right now, and I have to tell you that I don't have a relationship with that question because it just seemed irrational to me to deal with something that was long ago solved, but I don't know, here and here, and I don't know on my part how I could stop it right now, without causing scandals, tender cancellation, enormous damage to this country and the great price of redesigning, slander to the performers and so forth. It's simple, if anyone has any new ideas on how to solve this issue, I'm completely open and the people at the Ministry are completely open to this idea. When it comes to Grdec, I insisted that the MUP give adequate assistance in order to introduce the performer to Grabovnica-Gradelica, for the simple reason that I think no one has reason to stop state projects from State interest. I was down at Vranja's, and I'm with those citizens, who I unfortunately didn't have direct contact with, but I told them that in this particular situation, citizens have two options. One option is to accept the price of the expropriation set out in the procedure defined for it and the other is to conduct the procedure if they consider that not all rights are adequately defined. The only thing they don't have is a right to block the state from working the highway. So no foul against these citizens has been made. They did not accept the price, the state entered, introduced the investor, and they can conduct the procedure and exercise their rights in court proceedings. I don't see anything going on here. When it comes to these gas stations and your experience with badges coming in smaller environments and seducing order. I have to tell you that then it's better that this business is being transferred to the state, which is going to be done by the Ministry, because we're both dealing with water traffic and sailors, so there might be some Popeye here who's going to take care of that Badge and there's no reason to worry too much. And finally, Article 6. I know you read it well and there's no need to read it to you, but I'm going to read it to the public because you really didn't read it well. So, he says -- the minister makes a regulation on the conditions that must be met by the applicant for authorisation. So, don't do the Minister's assignment, don't, please. It's just one of the sublegal acts that's being passed and talked about terms. When it comes to terms, it is thought that the elements of the Transport, Conditions and Mode Act are met, how many days in advance and which documentation is submitted, on species, depending on vehicles and burdens, on deadlines, whether it applies in seven days, one month, the content of the forms, appearances, etc., rather than the minister bringing permits and that he has discretionary right to define only the licence. The road manager issues permits, not the minister, the minister only prescribes conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26962	Replica Milica Vojić-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26963	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, I'm sorry if you misunderstood. I just said very simply, I'll do my job when he calls me chairman. There's just no reason for me to retire and put on my own job that I signed up to work for. Let's get back to the investigation body. You say it will be arranged by some other law, some other rule. That's what doesn't seem right to me. I mean, and that's what it says here in law, and of course I read it. But I think it's much better if we settle this thing right here and right now, because it doesn't take a lot, two members solve all this stuff that I've asked you a question and what you've tried to answer. The rules are late first. Second, late and years old. I can give you laws for which no regulation has been made after six years and the law cannot be applied in full capacity. Secondly, then the public and MPs have no idea how it's regulated in the Rules of Procedure, and it would be very good if 250 people here today could talk to you and your associates about whether it's appropriate, less appropriate and that it can intervene. So, I think it would be very good if it were regulated here and very simply regulated. I know that even now there are commissions, that carriers have boards of various degrees, different ranks that need to be addressed and solved, and that they solve situations that are accidents, incidents, accidents and so forth. I mean, it's my impression that it's two completely different things and I don't think those two parallel things need to go the same way and double resources to be spent. You have a body to investigate. That investigation body should be involved in the team. It should give recommendations for security because it will determine the reasons why accidents or serious accidents will occur. I mean, it would be good if we could all come out here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26964	Replica, Alexander Pejcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26965	Let's start with this, since we got this bill two months ago. He says that Milutin Mrkonjic has been appointed as representatives of the Government in the National Assembly. Now you're in his shoes. I don't know if you're aware of what it says, that this law was passed on a proposal from a businessman. So, not on the Ministry's proposal, but on the business proposal. That's in, I said in the modern dictionary says tycoon. I'm telling you for those reasons. Otherwise, I'll read you what you read to me, and you haven't read it all the way. It is said that the minister is laying down rules on the conditions to be met by applicants for the issue of authorisation permits and how to issue licences, on types of permits, deadlines, validity of licences as well as on the content and appearance of the form, of an emergency transport permit. So, the minister is in charge, since he makes the rules of the game, as it is said, he is the one, not directly, but surely the manager will issue the permits, but the minister is making regulations. The second thing, when it comes to these problems that we've been discussing about Corridor 10. So, the Association of Citizens of Corridor 10 and how they have the right to enter their property. They don't mind passing the course here, but they want someone to listen to them and make their rights come true. The same category of land in Vladic's Han, in Presevo, has been paid four times as much. Four times on expropriation. It's here for two and a half dinars square to four dinars. There were ten to thirteen dinar squares. The problem is that only they want to exercise their rights. When it comes to the Predeans, otherwise, I'll remind you that the citizens of Dimitrovgrad to solve their problem and change the course hitchhiked the highway. We have the Parliament's decision on such radical measures, but we won't. We want to talk partnerly with the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that the government will hear the wishes of both local self-government and citizens of Prededina. In case it happens to pass, to be bypassed by Corridor 10, it will be, believe the waiting room of death. People will move out of that space. That's why I want to talk to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26966	The word has a People's Messenger, Zeljko Sušec.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26967	Dear President, Mr. Minister, the honourable representatives of the Ministry of Transport, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft safety and interoperability law of the railway is aimed at creating conditions for the smooth movement of rail traffic across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The safety of railways in this law is a rail system and railway workers who together meet the conditions for the smooth operation and movement of rail traffic. While the interoperability of the railway in this law represents a railway system that provides us safely with rail traffic on a particular network. The reason for the adoption of the draft safety and interoperability law of railways stems from the need to comply with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia in the area of rail transport, with EU regulations and EU Directive, and Directive 2004/49 relating to railway safety, Directive 2007/59 concerning the issue of certificates to machinery engineers, Directive 2008/57 concerning the interoperability of railways. I must mention what is very important, which is that the proposal for a law on safety and interoperability of railways is aimed at harmonising with the new railway law that came into force six months ago, and that it makes this law an inseparable continent in the regulation of rail traffic throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The draft law on safety and interoperability of railways also defines elements relating to interoperability for conventional rail systems, and the high-speed rail system. In addition, interoperability factors and elements of structural subsystems, conformity assessment and assessment for the use of interoperability and verification factors of structural subsystems, energy, infrastructure, signalling security devices, traffic signalling and telecommunications, traffic regulation and traffic management, as well as the establishment of uniform monitoring and safety reporting systems in rail transport. The bill provides for the issuance and authorisation, certification and authorisation issued by the Railway Directorate in accordance with EU rules. This proposal provides for the authorisation of the Railway Directorate for the adoption of certain rules which are of great importance to the safety and interoperability of rail transport, as well as mandatory reporting with time limits, formats and content, in accordance with the EU Directive. The adoption of a new Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways in line with EU rules is of great importance for the future and development of "The Railway of Serbia". In one word, the future of the development of "Serbian Railway" represents the interest of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. For reasons of developing and improving the work of the "Serb Railways", as well as meeting the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the EU in the area of rail traffic, the SNS parliamentary group will support the draft safety and interoperability law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26968	The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26969	Dear President of the Assembly, honourable ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, we have today a set of traffic laws and what I can say at the very beginning is that the SNS will support this set of laws. I'll focus on two laws. The first law is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads, which is significant from that aspect, which provides for gas stations to become an integral part of the public road. This means that in the next period, through land expropriation, in a plan and orderly manner, the state will determine the places where gas stations will be set up, so that what has happened to us so far, that gas stations will be placed within a distance of five to ten meters from each other, and thus make access more difficult, and services to the citizens. This is one of the reasons why I consider this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Roads to be significant. It is also important from the point of view of budget increases, as gas stations will pay compensation for the use of the land as a long-term road manager. What I would like to focus on is a little bit more, it is the Law on Maritime Navigation, first of all, for the reason that it stemmed from the need to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation, first of all with the Convention on the Labour of Seafarers, which this Assembly has ratified. For the second quarter of 2013, a visit to the European Aviation Safety Agency is envisaged, with regard to the supervision of training of seamen, as well as the supervision of the work of those state institutions and all other entities, engaged in maritime activities. The number of sailors in our country is certainly high. He's over 5,000. A large part of our citizens sail on overseas ships, under foreign flags. They monthly deposit large amounts of money on their family members, here in Serbia. This alignment of the Law on Maritime Navigation with European laws, also significant for all these people, so that the Republic of Serbia does not find itself on the blacklist of countries and that our sailors do not come into an unenviable position. What I want to praise, first of all, is the licensing of agencies involved in the employment of sailors, precisely from that aspect that now under this law, the agencies of mediation cannot charge for the intervention of the seamen, but they charge for it from employers. The amount that sailors have had to give so far, around 200 euros, but it is not as terrible as it is that these maritime employment agencies were mostly in the gray economy area, which means that the largest number of these agencies did not have signed agreements with international shipping companies. I hope that this member of the law, which now provides for a different way of working these intervention agencies, will contribute significantly to the position of the seamen. I would like to point out that this is a standard that was normally foreseen in 1996 and that so far, the largest number of these agencies have failed to comply with this standard. As for the other standard that no agency, which exists to intercede in the employment of seamen, is not met, this is the standard of quality management. I see here in this law that within a year, since this requires greater material costs, agencies for intermediation, from the date of obtaining the permit, regulate the issue of quality management. What is also good, which is in line with the WHO and in line with the International Labour Organisation, is licensing health institutions dealing with the medical examination of sailors. Namely, according to WHO, medical institutions involved in medical examination of seafarers must be licensed, by the fact that specialists in medical work will undergo additional training, or a course in maritime medicine, in order to be able to issue medical assurances for seamen sailing on overseas ships in a high-quality and valid manner. Apart from the prescribed form, for the issue of medical assurance, this bill also proposes to conduct a medical records for seamen and the medical examination itself is very important and I think that specialists of medical work right in the field of maritime medicine should also give it, for reasons why the seamen are, for a preventive reason, because they are exposed to particularly difficult conditions regarding noise, evaporation, etc. What I would like to ask the minister and what I am about to recognize as missing link in this law, is that for the adoption of this law, the main discussion took part, as you state only representatives of private entities dealing with the employment of sailors. In order to protect the seamen and their rights, I ask you to take action to establish contacts with the Seafarers' Association, as well as the Central School for Shipbuilding, Shipbuilding and Waterbuilding, which has existed in Belgrade for many years and which has been training people for nautical purposes, as well as personnel for technical work in the womb of the ship. They own sea officers and people who are highly motivated by this profession. Also, I wanted to point out another problem to you, which is that our sailors, who are sailing under Panama, have, for example, come into a situation to be disembarked from a ship precisely because some countries like Panama insist that passports, hills and maritime books be issued from one country. Most of the time, it has been said that our citizens had received a maritime book in the Port Captain's office in Belgrade, that they had our passports, and that they had to go to other countries, Montenegro, Croatia, Slovenia, to board ocean ships in the first place. This law represents a step further in protecting the seamen, especially as regards some of their basic rights relating to working time, their health care, etc. However, it is certainly necessary to continue working in this area in order to protect the position of the seamen in the best way, and the state should certainly benefit from that, given the financial amounts that the seamen must pay to other countries to obtain burdens and certificates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26970	The People's Messenger Vesna Rakonjac has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26971	Dear President, honourable ministers, honourable fellow MPs, I will speak too highly of the Law on Safety and Interoperability in Railway Traffic. If we know that interoperability means the ability of more systems to function homogeneously, more heterogeneous systems to function homogeneously and that information circulating in that system without additional information needed can be used and served by users. It is a bit of a hornet word, but it's just as it is and we need to accept it, as well as this law, too. Analyzing this law, I absolutely think it's too good and that the law that precedes the changes that are inevitable in our rail system. If we were to make laws now for our rail system as it is, overcome, those laws would be overcome. This law is not only inapplicable, but if the people who implement it are skilled enough to properly explain to the railroad employees what it will get from this law, it can be one of the roof laws in our railway. Analyzing this law, I have found all the elements of management of quality management systems, ISO 9001 and I simply think it is the basis of this law, as well as other European ISO standards that are necessary, both for rail and other traffic, and we have to implement them, whether they want it or not. This law is absolutely applicable, whether trains travel on our tracks 30 km per hour or 200 km per hour. When it comes to security, security elements must be respected, and simply when we talk about it, we can see that this law embraces all the resources, and that means both human resources and infrastructure, and simply within the framework of the railway infrastructure, as a lying infrastructure, and the infrastructure of propulsion machines, i.e. locomotives, or trains. This law absolutely covers all elements, which means that it can be applied to the existing system, but it is practically preventive and can be applied to all future systems that we are introducing. It is simply not applicable only to the present, but can simply be applied in the future. In addition, this law, other than resources, covers other elements relating to risk prevention. We have heard on many occasions about the formation of commissions that will deal with the cause or consequences of some accidents. I think that this law is excellently done that, in risk prevention analyses, it is too much to give elements to prevent some of the previous accidents that have occurred, to determine the critical control points that we need to establish in this system and prevent them from happening. The accidents that take place in rail traffic, as well as in air traffic, are rare. But when they happen, there's a large number of victims. That's exactly why we have to do everything we can to do it primarily in prevention. When we talk about prevention, we need to pay particular attention to human resources as well. So medical examinations of people working on the railways should be done in an adequate manner. On the other hand, we should certainly take into account that the railing cabinet must also be renewed by young people, undermining them, who will be able to accept all new challenges and simply be capable of such a health condition and the capacity of education, so that they can monitor new technologies in this area. Another thing that I liked about this law – environmental protection, i.e. one part that applies to environmental protection, but also to the safety of rail traffic, as well as surrounding settlements – refers to the control of noise, prevention and the emergence of the consequences of the passage of certain trains, i.e. vibrations that can occur during the passing of traffic of this type. Of course, the infrastructure to be installed should also be taken into account, such as the railways and settlements located there. All in all, if you are skilled enough to implement this law in an adequate way, I have no doubt there will be great resistance because these are major and structural changes and they are carried by people. They must accept a simple new system, a new system of values, a new control system. This law will carry with it full paperwork in the beginning, until it is established as all other quality systems, but after the profit obtained and saved by such a way of doing business is very large. The Serbian Progressive Party will certainly support such a law. Minister, thank you, the law is very good, it's applicable and it just needs to come across understanding and employees and the rest of the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26972	MP Branislav Blazic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26973	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, railways somewhere in Serbia in the summer of Lord 2013, chasing trains 30, 40, and somewhere all 50 km an hour. But it's important to arrive. Why are these going 200, 300 kilometers an hour, it's hard to explain. They even want to undo our Serbian wisdom for the faster to come. Where's the safety? In Spain, the engineer knocks out a message and forgets about the turn, goes 170 miles an hour, goes off and kills a strong people. That can't happen with us. Our engineers can freely type messages, congratulate birthdays, because at such speeds, there are no big or small curves that can turn out and roll over. We're often compared to Japan. They say the Japanese, so their train, you know in Japan is going 500 kilometers an hour, now they've tested it, but it's not a train, it's not going along the tracks, it's being lifted up by magnets and it's more of a plane. The trains are ours to go along the tracks, the rails, so when that master brakes, they turn out to be sparks and all the passengers from behind come forward at one point. When we talk about this security, or even continue with the state of our railway, I just have to say that the railway network in Serbia is more than a century old, and over half of all the railways were built in the 19th century. There is now some information that 2008, 2010, 2011 and 2012 has not been remounted a single meter of rail. For four years, we haven't been able to remount anything our ancestors built in the 19th century. Then he says, on average, there are 128 tow vehicles and 131 passenger cars in traffic daily. So it turns out we have one tow truck that only pulls one car. The loss of Serbia's railways for 2012, amounted to 16.6 billion dinars, etc. Speaking of security, I'm going to isolate this article 78. He's very interesting. It says – the locomotive must have a control device, a braking device, a drawback equipment, a wake-up device, lights, wipers, so that all have our locomotives. We're not too different from them. Maybe they're going faster. The only problem here is with the space heating device for the passengers. If we have to install it, our passengers haven't learned that. They learned it's just as cold inside the train and outside. Now, if we get used to them getting warm in there, when they come out, they might catch a cold. (Alexander Antic, from the scene: It may happen that they will not come out.) It can be. Now something about interoperability in the case of a railroad through Banat. I think there are the slowest railways in Serbia in Banat. That makes perfect sense. No one's dared to make a railroad, no canyons, no cliffs, no tunnels, no mountains, nothing left, no railroads. Now from the Pannonian Sea in Banat, we've literally got a dead sea. There's one project that can be very interesting. A project that also advocates the European Commission. You're probably familiar with that. It takes a long time, his acceptance, if I may say so. It is just to show an example of interoperability between Hungary, Romania and Serbia on the Segedin-Kikinda-Temisvar railway, where Budapest will connect with Bucharest, and we have the opportunity to see how the EU does it. Maybe if we have the brains, and hopefully we'll have, let's bring down the vertical from Kickinda, over Zrenjanin, to Pancheva, and from Pancheva one leg to Smedereva, another leg to the South Stream. Maybe in that way, this Banat, the unfortunate one, would come to life on the one hand, and on the other hand they would learn something from all these parameters that can be accepted from this law. We've had it already and it's been handed over to this famous DKMT region, but then we ran the DKMT Board of Directors, and when we run something usually our projects can't go through. There are some shifts here, so it's not all so funny, and it's better to be funny than to talk too sad. Moves, for example, in passenger rail traffic, 4.8 million passengers were transported, a 26% increase compared to last year. If this data is correct, I have no reason not to doubt it, it's still some moving story. The achieved transport income is 1.17 billion dinars, which is an increase of 5.36%. 6.38 million tonnes of goods were transported, a 2.4% increase. A transport revenue of eight billion has been realised, which is a billion-dollar increase of 200 million or 17.64% compared to last year. Therefore, Serbia's railways have increased their own revenues by about 1.2 billion dinars this year, 18% and expenditures have been reduced by about 2.3 billion dinars, 12% compared to the same period last year, in terms of significant volumes of passenger and goods traffic. So something's turning, though, and it's moving. Especially this law that we are passing today and the roof law that we passed in May shows that there is little and energy, there is both desire and will, there is hope that one day we and our railways will both slowly, but surely, we will be in the track of the other, with the railway of Europe, and we will still not reach Japan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26974	The word is from the People's MP Vuceta Toskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26975	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to stick to the proposal for a safety and interoperability law of the railway. The main objective of this law is to achieve such a level of state of rail infrastructure within a reasonable period of time that, with the modernisation of vehicles, it will allow for the safety, quality and speed of rail traffic to be improved on the national network, while Serbia's Railway Service Level attracts operators, passengers, goods and successfully operate, taking into account its public, commercial function. The adoption and implementation of this law must be observed with two aspects. The first aspect is according to the law on existing circumstances, which characterizes: age, railway weariness, technological ageing of equipment as a result of years of insufficient investment in maintenance and development affecting the level of safety, as well as the quality of transport of services in terms of time and travel, reliability and regularity of traffic. Of the total length of the net, only 7.2% are two-wheel tracks, and the electrification is at 32% of the track. Maximum allowable speed is only 2.6% of nets greater than 100 kilometers, while about 52% is less than 60 kilometers per hour. The level of technical equipment of the official places is low and does not comply with their roles on the network. The fact that the Serbian Railways in the last 10 years has been faced with the appearance of drastic theft of vital parts of the railway infrastructure, vehicles, goods in transport that poses a serious threat to the safety and regularity of rail traffic, as well as health and life, both passengers and the rest of the population. This fact is alarming, especially in the light of the fact that railways are transporting dangerous substances, and in the event of incidents, there would be a threat to the health and life of a large number of people. The direct material damage caused by the theft of vital parts on an annual basis amounts to over 300 million dinars. Under the law and conditions of Eurointegration and the construction of Corridor 10, Corridor 10 is a strategic interest and a momentum of the economic development of the Republic of Serbia through the engagement and recovery of the construction operation and other industrial branches that are leading to the construction of Corridor 10. The main objective of Corridor 10 development is fast and high-quality rail connections with significantly reduced travel times between major urban, commercial, industrial centres of the Republic of Serbia and Europe. Corridor 10 in the area of the Republic of Serbia is a very important corridor for the European traffic system. It connects 11 Central and Yugoslav European countries. If the southern part of Germany is included, that part of the space is almost 1.5 million square meters, over 160 million inhabitants and a total social gross product of about two trillion dollars. The railway network in the area is over 40,000km long. Corridor 10 generally connects Western and southern Europe and extends from the Republic of Austria, through Slovenia, Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia to Greece. Also, there are four branches connecting Hungary and Bulgaria in the main traffic route. The total length of Corridor 10 is 2,360 kilometers and the length of the track in Serbia is 840 kilometers, or 35% of the total length of Corridor 10. Corridor 10 is an integral part of the pan-European corridor and part of the future network that will expand in Serbia. The review of the project strategy and the initiatives born for Europe as a whole, the areas of Southeast Europe, shows that Corridor 10 is present for all cases as one of the most important corridors in the area. His role is multiple. Corridor 10 is a European corridor that allows for the integration of the northwest with the southeast of Europe. It provides the most favourable land connection between Central European countries, Bulgaria, Turkey, Asia Minor, North Africa. Corridor 10 is one of the major corridors of the Southeast European countries to connect them, the basis of the Republic of Serbia's traffic system. I believe that the Law on the Safety and Interoperability of Railways has a good starting point, which is in line with the basic technical, technological organisation, the organisation norms "The Railway of Serbia" with the standards of the EU railway state, but in itself is not enough, so the Government of the Republic of Serbia should, as soon as possible, adopt a binding action plan to define it. The strategic priorities of the development of rail traffic in the Republic of Serbia, Corridor 10, the first stage would mean building a two-way track at the highest length north of Nis, in line with funding opportunities. Continuing construction of Belgrade's, Novi Sad-Subotic, Saturday rail node, the Stara Pazova-Novi Sad-Subotica-State border, the second Nis-Dimitrovgrad, the refurbishing of existing railways, the electrification of modern SS and TK railway facilities Belgrade-Vrdnica-Bar, the revitalisation, modernisation and other lines on the network according to priorities and needs, opportunities and financing. I had one amendment that I couldn't turn in, because I had some ink, my car broke down, I didn't come that day, so I couldn't turn in that amendment. Since I have information that might need to be seen in some way if it can. Over the past 29 months, some 3,000 thefts of metal parts with a direct material damage of around 655 million dinars have been registered in the Serbian railway area. From the beginning of 2013, to the half of August, there were 1,156 illegal shops, of which 901 thefts, which caused "Serb Railways" to suffer the damage of 177 million. I wanted to add one amendment to which all these thefts would be filed under criminal law. The minister can't hear. I don't know if anyone has submitted such an amendment that it is not subject to criminal proceedings, but under criminal law, since they are huge material damages, because 655 million dinars could be made by a railway that is important for traffic in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26976	The word has the People's MP Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26977	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, it's a big deal to pass this Law on safety in rail transport both for the safety of our citizens and for the state of Serbia, because it will try not to say it will solve, but it will try to improve, first of all, the optimal functioning of rail traffic by overcoming the difference between the safety conditions of its application, and they are truly, not to say, catastrophic. Secondly, it will remove the lack of legal regulation in that part of traffic security that is not legally regulated, and as we have seen from the Prime Minister's opening speech, he stressed. Finally, it will resolve the lack of authorisation of the Railway Directorate and the issue of certain permits and forgeries. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to speak a little differently than my predecessors, try official data to prove that the shifts are really possible. I will take a period from the first eight months in "The Railways of Serbia". In just a few sentences, I will say what the new government has found in Serbian railways – few locomotives and wagons, a network of railways in Serbia is over 100 years old, and one half of the railroad was built in the 19th century. A little stripe is electrified, only one-third. The annual remont is only 36 kilometers, and in the period of previous government, 2008 to 2012 only 60 kilometers were remounted, believe it or not. It is on average a day in traffic of only 122 tow vehicles and 131 passenger cars. The goods transport was drastically reduced, passenger transport was drastically reduced. Only for interest-free loans paid for the "Serb Railways" 2m euros. It's weak internal control, because stealing was visible in every place. The official report, as you saw yesterday, here we were saying that a month's salary was stolen every month. Responsibilities at every turn. The car fleet cost 700 000 euros annually. Logs, union only, 124 grand abroad, and for the past three years, the former government has 31 billion dinars. Since the new director has come, because there have been criticisms at the expense of that, let me just say in a few sentences that it is possible and in the present state to improve some things. In the past eight months, since the new director of "Serb Railways", the following results have been achieved. First, passenger transport increased by 26%. The achieved transport income increased by 5.36% or 23% above the plan. The order of the ride is realized by 11% higher. The number of train cancellations in passenger traffic has been reduced by 73%. Train delays to 100 train kilometres have been reduced by 32%. The delay in passenger trains was reduced by 37.8%. In internal passenger traffic, more than 44.7% of passengers were transported. In 2013, new diesel motor trains were introduced in the traffic of "Serbian Railways", although we say there is no money, but still for the eight months Novi Sad-Sombor-Subotica, Nis-Medare, Ruma-Shabac, Kraljo-Cačak-Požega, Subotica-Kanja. It was transported to 2.4 more goods. No more paying people vacations that aren't even working organizations. In the previous term, 331 people flew without having anything to do with the railways and paid for it. As for safety, the number of emergency events decreased by 7.6%, the number of accidents decreased by only 3.7% - 3.8%. The number of accidents and accidents at the road crossings, because we have had a really difficult situation and beyond, has been reduced by 31.18%. The duration of traffic interruptions due to emergency events has been reduced by 19.45%. In an increased volume of work in passenger and freight transport, fuel consumption for diesel locomotives decreased by eight months by 700,000 dinars per day. Economic indicators in three sentences. The achieved transport income increased by 17%, the total income achieved by 7.80%. Total expenditure was reduced by 12.15%. Ladies and gentlemen, the "Serbian Railways" increased their own revenues by about 1.2 billion this year, up from 18% last year, and the expenditures decreased by 12%, and that's seen progress. So the loss by six months this year has been reduced by three billion dinars. In the end, for those who did not know, there is a Health Protection Institute for Workers of the Railways of Serbia in this large collective. The arrival of the new director of the primer Vlada Batnusic improved a drastically new situation. With the introduction of new austerity measures, the Institute has seen a significant decrease in outflows of financial resources, such as official travel in the country and abroad, inadequate remuneration of individual employees and accidental spending of financial resources. Since August, there has been no problem with paying personal income. The financial balance has been significantly corrected and there has been an increase in the number of commercial checks. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a small part of the report that I've produced, but I wanted to prove to the MPs, to those who say it's always the same and that it's not up to people and professional management. And how, as you can see, depends on these financial savings. I don't want to apply now what it means for schools, for hospitals, for kindergartens. I urge you, all MPs, to vote in favour of this set of laws, regardless of party commitment and thereby contribute to the modernisation of Serbia, which SNS and its President Aleksandar Vukic, President Tomislav Nikolic and the chairman of our Parliament, Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26978	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. You were always a man who could appreciate work. The word has a folk MP, Nebojsa Beric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26979	The Honorable Chairman, gentlemen of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has seen many of the problems that slow down the process of monitoring modern technical novelties and achievements in the area of rail traffic, and are making it difficult to do so, in some cases preventing the integration of "Serb Railways" into the system of international rail traffic. That is why the need arises for the adoption of a new traffic safety law, which will ensure that Serbian railways are fully integrated into the EU rail system. The adoption of this law is just one of the preconditions that needs to be achieved in order to start the modernisation process of "Serb Railways", and certainly what is the primary task, knowing the state of our railways today, is investment in railway infrastructure, because only with the modernisation of rail infrastructure, which also technically and technologically must be and must follow European railways, will allow our railways to become an integral part of European railways. Serbian railways have been having trouble providing funds for modernising infrastructure and new vehicles for years. The result of such a situation is that trains cannot develop more than 40km on certain shares, which affects delays, which is why this type of transport, which is cheaper than road traffic, is becoming less and less represented. Modern economy requires fast and cheap transport, and this cannot be provided under the current circumstances. The first step the government of the Republic of Serbia has taken towards resolving this problem is to provide credit, which the Russian Federation government has approved Serbia with $800,000. If it is added that the Serbian side participates with 15% of its participation, the value of investment in railway infrastructure will be over $900,000. This loan will deliver five capital projects: construction and electrification of the railway track on the Pančeva Bridge – Pančevo – Main, reconstruction of the 112km track on Corridor 10, reconstruction and construction of the second track on the Stara Pazova railway section – Novi Sad, reconstruction of the 200km railway Belgrade – Bar and purchase of new diesel motor vehicles. Also, an investment of about 200,000 euros was planned in telecommunications systems under the railway system, which recently led to a signing of a principle agreement with a Chinese company to modernise an integrated telecommunications system, where, according to the realization of this project, all 3,800km of railways in Serbia would be covered by a modern telecommunications network. By implementing the above projects, Serbia's railway network will become an integral part of the modern European rail system and trains will be able to develop speeds up to 160km per hour. The adoption of the Railway Safety Act is certainly one of the preconditions for the implementation of these projects. That is why the SNS parliamentary group in voting day will support this proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26980	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Branislav Mitrovica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26981	Thank you, Mr. President. Today we had, I would say, a very constructive, above all well-intentioned, momentary relaxing debate. As professional as she was, I don't want to talk about it. It is best to be judged by people who are in the railway system or the people of the Ministry, including the minister himself. We were a little short on being interoperable, all of us MPs. In almost all things we agreed with each other, I think, except for one key thing. We all agreed that the railway system "Serb Railways" is in a very difficult state, that the railway infrastructure was devastated, with a large number of routing, worn-out tow and towed funds, with a large number of deficits, with a small space for revitalising these funds. Simply, the railway infrastructure is in a very difficult state. We also agreed that it is good that we all voted together for loans from the Russian Federation or from the Arab Development Fund or from the Czech State or from the European Investment Bank, which would be invested in railway infrastructure. We also agreed that it is inappropriate and inadmissible that today we do not have projects that would spend that money and invest and improve the quality of railway infrastructure. What we didn't agree on today is whether the Railway Interoperability Act will significantly improve railway safety. Some people think they will, and I don't think anything drastic or epochal is going to change at this point. The rail system is a complex system. It's made up of several subsystems, and that's what I was talking about in the afternoon debate. I won't do it again. It is precisely the need for this consensus on interoperability, as the law itself provides, that its main role is to coordinate the work of all these systems and lead to better, better and more coherent work of Serbian railways, and thus to increase security. However, by passing this law, a new discrepancy will be created. The discrepancies between what the law says and the discrepancies between what we have in the field. It is not disputed that this law prescribes that a workshop for repairing railway vehicles must be granted a licence from the Directorate. It's not controversial and it's good to set certain standards. The question arises what is this workshop ready to do and what has it got to do with spare parts, what is missing from that workshop tomorrow to fix both diesel and electric locomotives and passenger and freight cars? Is it necessary for engineers on Serbian railways to get permission? This law says yes. I don't mind, but these engineers drive locomotives that are 40 years old on railroads that have so many centuries of age. Now, that's the moment when we learn that security is compromised. We can prescribe laws, give standards, condition licenses and rules, which of course we support, we all pursue some standards, is that applicable on the ground right now? I'm afraid it's not applicable at this point. It wouldn't be a good idea to get into a situation, Mr. Minister, just like we came into the car school situation. With the 2010 Traffic Safety Act, we have prescribed that the Ministry of the Interior will adopt rules on the work of car schools. In May of last year, those rules were passed. On October 25th of this year, precisely because of the discrepancies between the rules and what's on the ground, 900 car schools stopped working. They're not working yet. Four thousand people still don't work in those car schools, waiting to see what happens. Fifty thousand people, students, courses, in car schools can't continue their training and can't pass driver's exams. You just can't let us get into a similar situation. All those involved in rail traffic and working in railways know that a lot of the things they write in this law are already being applied on the ground, and the business order of the station, so for years now, every railway station has a business order. Not to mention the traffic code. Well, that's been going on for decades. Not to mention the medical examination of railway workers. A colleague spoke about the Centre, one of the most modern health centres in Serbia, the most equipped. I don't want to talk about training railway workers. It's not supposed to be some kind of science. Railway workers have their own education, so they are continuously educated and ready to work. I'm not asking the question for a moment whether this law should be passed, I just want to finally confirm and highlight one thesis that I tried to impose today. I'm sure if she's taken seriously, she can lead to certain shifts. If we do not have a serious reform in rail transport, a comprehensive reform, this law will have no meaning and will not be applicable. So none of the interoperability or complete consistency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26982	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26983	Dear President of the National Assembly, Dr Stefanovic, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr. Antiću, don't mind me, you're a minister for less than two months, coming to the government from one of the most orderly systems. You were the president of the Belgrade City Assembly, you were used to working with organized people, with good people, with one of the best mayors in the history of the city of Belgrade, and of course don't blame me for addressing those I should address. You still haven't figured out where you came from, because I'm saying it's not easy to leave a system like this and get into this system, in the worst government since the arrival of the southern Slovenians on the Balkan Peninsula. In addition to you are your associates, I have worked with them wonderfully, praised them, in 30 days they completed the circuit in the town of Kruševec. I must address those who deserve and deserve the attention of the opposition. So, ladies and gentlemen of the elderly, you've proposed a law here, with a name that implies the interoperability of the railways. Our people don't know what interoperability means. When I asked the citizens on the street -- they have no idea. Here's what I'm going to do for you. The word – interoperability draws root from the Latin language, from the words opera, work and intervening. Under this interoperability, the ability to work together is understood. Two systems of technique and organization are similar terms and compatibility. When two systems are consistent. There's no better example of interoperability than when we look at an anti-crisis anti-crisis package prescribed by the director general. Here I'm asking you, are they interoperable for breakfast "brusket Fransch", German prosciutto, Cypriot goat cheese, with a Cuban cigar or compatible? Is it possible that now I've given a lecture and you don't understand? I'll tell you again, and you write, take notes, I'll talk slowly. So, under interoperability, there is a capacity for two different systems to perform together. Do you understand me now? I see you understand better, so I'm asking you, since you've so richly scattered state money on the team by the CEO of Railways, are they compatible or interoperable truffles with steak and cheesed salmon halls, because I saw it in the French restaurant menu that your CEO spent? What he spent, let him go out with Alexander Vukic in front of the FAP workers who sat on the track and tell them, "Here, I'm having breakfast, and what did you have for breakfast?" What did you workers eat this morning? When you explain it to them, then they will understand what interoperability is and what is compatibility. You want me to tell you again? Didn't you hear that? Interoperability and compatibility, do you understand? Take notes. I can't talk all the time. You know, you should be able to, because having with you is impossible. This isn't possible. It's not as black as it hides. You understand the exchange, it's better to hide it than to make a bad confession. I have to ask you again. This is where you gave us three legal proposals. Which one of you read these legal proposals? Some did, I saw it from the discussion, let's just say, my colleague from Kruševec must have, I know her as a fundamental person. But I'm asking you, since you're going to vote in favour of these laws, do you know that in most of these laws, the legislator predicted that you would bring some sublaws within certain deadlines? I'm asking you right now, here's a fellow Mitrovica who set a certain example, how many laws have there been here in this assembly procedure since you've been in power, for which you promised to adopt sublegal acts and have never been passed? Here, the auto-schools stopped. That's exactly what your colleague Mitrovic was telling you. Why did people protest? Why did they strike auto-schools? Were they bored, they didn't have enough students? Did they also sit on the Styrofoam or on the railroad? They were protesting because you were inefficient and incompetent. There's something else I need to ask you. We have a situation here that we have been announced today that Minister Mihajlovic has not travelled to Russia. I thought she was taking the train. Wait, if someone travels by train to Russia, and the theme is railways, I'm sure it's the subject, because I don't think they're here to paint this new plane for her or the woman has decided to travel by train.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26984	Mrs. Mihajlovic was really not a topic today. Yesterday she was in the assembly all day and she'll be back when they're amended. Let's get back to the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26985	I'm just asking, since she was supposed to travel to Russia today, I thought she was supposed to travel by train. Then I heard she wasn't traveling, because none of the 150 million Russians could take her there. They're all busy and they said, "Don't come, who pleases God?" If she took the train, she'd probably be here for Christmas. Now I'm asking you because we have another law here, the Law on Maritime Navigation, and where you're going to get a better theme in correlation with yesterday's topic. Yesterday we had stock reserves, yesterday through the Stock Reserve Act, you told us that you were predicting the laws in such a way as to interpret what this law would regulate. You arrange the area of market disturbances, shortages, in case of elemental disasters or wars, God forbid. That's where you reminded us of 1992 when you first passed the law, then you did it all in order, disasters, wars, shortages, but now we have the Law of Maritime Navigation. I ask you, are you passing this law because of your Minister Bačević's revolutionary idea of the Belgrade-Stalic-Grade-Solobužde-Solun channel, or are you bringing it in to truly meet some European conditions? Are you really bringing in what we need to be part of an orderly world, or are you already predicting that Serbia will be a maritime country and that there is a law on maritime navigation, so we will, in particular, have a law here that has set sail on the canal? There's nothing. There's no word on that. You don't believe in your projects? Well, that would be a revolutionary idea in the election campaign. I expected you to come out and say – we will now arrange the sailing of the Belgrade-Stalac channel – Thessaloniki by this law in such a way. But I can see that you are in fact doubting the ideas, ideas and visions of your minister whom you have run for the highest state office, as soon as there is no letter in the law about this. Let me explain. Have you seen the weather in Serbia now? You know why? We've already become a maritime land, for example. This is the coastal climate in November. It's the canal, believe me. There, you understand now. I'll ask the president of the Water polo Union to teach me how to swim, but he has to take off his hat to hear what his people throw at him while he swims. Because, you know, that water polo cap has antiphones and you don't hear citizens. The voice of the people when you don't hear it, it's very dangerous. You must hear the voice of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26986	Mr. Milivoevich, please return to the hearing.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26987	I'm asking for a little silence, but we're not at the Cossack Assembly. I know that Mrs. Mihajlovic went to Russia, so no one accepted her. I'll fix her next time. Tell her to call me. Someone will see her. It's not a problem that no one received her, it's the one that was supposed to go to America, the first vice president, and no one received him. You didn't hear that? That's because you got into Euro-Atlantic flows, they let you down the water, all of you. But let me ask you for an end now, since we have a very quick budget on the agenda, since you've read such nice laws, do you know how much the budget is for the railroad and why? Either of you answer me. I guess you saw the budget, huh? Do you have any idea how much loss the railroad made? You don't know, of course, you don't care. Ask Sima, when she goes to French for breakfast next time, to deliver the invoice as much as it was for the team, then go out with a law like this in the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26988	National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26989	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'll ask how much breakfast is in French, but I'll also ask how much is the bridge on Ada? I asked one architect and one of the best mayors, or as they had already said, the leader of a small party already, for his project and project made by his predecessor, also from the party, said it would cost us 2.4 billion euros. So the bridge, which was supposed to cost about 160m euros, will eventually cost 2.4 billion people in access to traffic. It's certainly a little more expensive than breakfast, but I wonder how much security and speed of our railways and roads would have been increased if instead of that bridge in Belgrade we'd have made one three, to get out one 100m euros top of our heads, but to be in functional places, to cross the river faster, to connect some traffic streets without bringing together two local communities that lead somewhere from New Belgrade to a pub? I don't know since that breakfast is in that bar, but mostly the bridge leading to that coffee shop where breakfast should be served cost 400-500m euros, and with access to traffic, the architects say, will cost 2.4 billion. I don't agree with my colleagues who say someone can't swim and they'll sink. Sometimes someone with an empty object can't sink, even though they can't swim. So the time has come for smart phones and empty people. These empty people are obviously full of themselves, and we're talking about what we found when we got here today. A completely derelict infrastructure with debts from the country and citizens and businesses that have reached 40 billion people. No traffic infrastructure has been created for the 10 years, no improved river roads, no significantly improved roads in Serbia, no improvement in railways. Public debt has been increased. The debt of the economy has been increased, but the debt return export has not been made. Serbia was a completely abandoned country with abandoned economy and infrastructure. Serbia was a country where there were no more than four factory chimneys, completely detached infrastructures, and if they had built it, I don't know what could be transported along those roads. Almost two-thirds of the goods on our market are of foreign origin. We didn't compensate for over-exports. It didn't grow production, it was falling, and if they had built the infrastructure, the question is what would they be carrying through it. If they were to transport only foreign goods, it would be worth it, but not as much as it would have been if 400,000 jobs had not been lost, that these passengers would no longer be travelling to their jobs, if they hadn't disappeared through 400,000 jobs in the production of a huge social product. Instead of being created, we import goods into our country. If by any chance that had been built, the train would not have gone from Belgrade to Bara for 32 hours. My question Minister – did that train come back at all? It's the infrastructure that was found. It's not a French restaurant. It's not breakfast or fog. It's a simple reality. People traveled to Bar with that infrastructure that was found and that couldn't be built in a year, 32 hours. Since guests from Montenegro need to come to me, I have to ask the minister – will this train return to St. Arangel by November 21st? Is he back and if he isn't, will he be back by then so they can make it to the Slavic lunch? It's a situation we found in Serbia and it wasn't just in the infrastructure. The train to Barajev, while already at Belgrade, traveled from Belgrade to Barajev for 11 hours. If he was a marathoner, it took him 21 or 22 hours to get to the bar. This train traveled for 32 hours. Is there anything else I need to say about the infrastructure that was found? What else do I have to say about the safety on those tracks that may have been increased by slow trains because of the bad cars? Selma kept leaning out the window, and whenever she leaned, in 11 hours she was in Barai. If Anna Karenina wanted to throw herself under a train on the infrastructure that remained behind the previous regime, she would never have died. The train just wouldn't have come along. If Mile had taken the bat track with his friend, he could have been camping under the tent, because there's no train coming. He could pick up the house and legalize and the train wouldn't come along. That's the condition we found. Instead of those who led you to keep quiet, they took today to give us a lecture that in a year we couldn't do what they didn't do in 12 years. Although it's from my predecessor, it's still a lot. I'll be self-critical. Regardless of the new debts we need now to complete what the predecessors have not completed and since we need to pay back both their debts and complete the infrastructure and create exports to repay the debt and debts that have been incurred in their time, I ask which goods are we going to produce if we don't raise production on these tracks and on that infrastructure because the entire economy system is completely abandoned? The tax system tells us that two-thirds of VAT is on import goods. So we can't pay our workers back through import goods. And through budget deficits, we should buy our goods from our non-existent economy and get the money back to the workers, to the jobs, their families to buy some stuff and to spread the money through the citizens for the overall improvement of everyone. The international community claims that 51 billion euros were raised from Serbia. For these 51 billion euros, there could certainly be a better infrastructure, and even better, an economy that could be a source of debt repayment for the economy and infrastructure. Unfortunately, this has not been done, and today we are listening to lectures from those who have failed to properly sew up any stake, let alone do something in Serbia's production. So my question is -- and when we increase security on these roads, and when we build the infrastructure, what kind of goods are we going to produce if we don't raise the natural system? I welcome that the party of the former regime has taken my program - economy, energy, agriculture, processing industry, but what have they done in the past 12 years? Who bothered them to make such a business system? I'd like to say hello anyway. So this is how I have to say that we've been brought into a position that's very unpleasant, to do without money what they didn't do with money. The money was simply taken out of the country, the country was completely destitute, devastated and today we are listening to lectures on how much burgers, kewapi or breakfast are costing in "France". That's unacceptable to me. I'll certainly vote for these laws, but I'm asking all of us again -- what goods are we going to transport with that infrastructure when we build it? Is she the one leaving the factory raised by the party of the former regime? I don't believe that. We have to raise Serbia's economy to have something to carry on these tracks and to hire people. That's what we need to discuss, not how much breakfast costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26990	The word is by MP Borislav Stefanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26991	Dear President of the Assembly, you know we don't replicate in some, let's say, really embarrassing cases that come from your parliamentary group. However, I think that you have violated Article 107 because you have allowed the previous speaker to say the lies he has brought between him and Minister Antić and call him a thief, because it is impossible for the minister who actively participates in building a great bridge in Belgrade not to know that the bridge has been paid two billion euros and that he did not have a share in it. I don't think you should have let that happen, and that you had to stop the previous speaker, as you had to, in my opinion, stop him in a situation where he said that an MP from our parliamentary group is floating on the water because there's something empty. I'm sure he wasn't thinking about some part of the body. He was thinking about the head. It's, I think, offensive. And that's where you had to react. In this situation, when we hear these things too often, I ask you -- or are you going to protect us from these things, and I know that you can and I know that you understand what I'm saying, or is it that Mr. and the people of that party or a group of parties who are saying these things finally bring judgments by a brief procedure and end up with every Democrats in this country? This is really beyond any line. However, when I see that you allow Minister Antic to be insulted, then I see a clearer statement by Minister Mihajlovic that the future government does not need Ivica Dacic. Then it's clearer to me what this is about, than to the citizens, I'm talking about it. I don't think it's correct, Mr. President, that you could react again in this situation. If you're going to say about our messenger who spoke, I don't think he's put this kind of accusation in anyone's face directly, with no evidence whatsoever, except in cynical, even sometimes in moments and a funny tone, and this wasn't funny. This means that we are lying on the billions that we have stolen from the citizens of Serbia, and we need to be completed by a brief procedure. That's the conclusion. The worst part is, there's a minister in the government. Please take care of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26992	I must tell you that I listened carefully to what Mr. Risticevic said and he did not mention any DS or any of the MPs. He said that some people in previous times were stealing money, which I'm sure is the case. I'm absolutely sure, and it seems to me that even the competent state authorities will determine, it's not the work of the National Assembly. If there'd been a theft, I'm sure there would have been. (Borislav Stefanovic, from the place: As there is now. ) I am convinced that they are happening now, I hope in a small volume, but I am confident that the state authorities will also investigate it. As for what you said, I don't think he insulted Mr. Antic. He will, of course, speak for himself. I believe that Mr. Antic, when he found out, made some moves in his political career, so he changed some attitudes. But he'll talk more about it, Mr. Antic, probably, if he wants to. As far as this is concerned, of course, you have the right to do so, but I think that when we allow one parliamentary group to talk about ministers who are not there, about events that have nothing to do with the agenda, in a funny, funny tone, sometimes cynical, sometimes harshly, then it should also be allowed on the other hand. Then it's a kind of parliamentary balance that you know. Of course, I will not allow anyone to be personally offended, never mentioned, but I have no right to recognize anyone in the debates of other MPs because I would insult them. So, when the MPs are not mentioned, when not the MP group is mentioned, they are something that the MPs consider to be so. Of course, I also call on all the MPs to respect the sensitivity of the other MPs and that this fine debate, which was very constructive, seems to me, to me, to this moment, at which we have spoken seriously about the problems, but hopefully also about the solutions to this issue, we are already slowly bringing an end. We still have Mr. Senic from the DS Parliament Club, which is our last speaker on the list, so that this will be the end of this normal debate and that after that we can move on to other topics tomorrow. I hope that's the end of it. The word is Mr. Senic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26993	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Minister, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the Democratic Party will support the proposal for a bill confirming the European agreement on the main internal waterways of international importance, and I call on MPs of the majority of the National Assembly to support this bill and thus finally put an end to the Pharaoh project of the Morava channel. Since no one talked about this bill today, I'd like to introduce you to what it says, because I don't suppose you've even read it. In addition, the three laws provide that the new waterways of category E must meet the parameters of at least fifth B of the category. This means that if you still want to build the Morava channel, it must satisfy vessels that are 110 meters long, 11.4 metres wide and the depths of gas of 4.5 metres and all to pass those vessels. These vessels have a capacity of up to 6,000 tonnes. I am also interested in Mr. Transport Minister's position on the issue of building the Morava channel so far has not been made clear, what he actually thinks as the minister of traffic on the project, because all engineering budgets say it is a crazy Pharaoh project that Serbia cannot carry out. So, apart from the fact that the implementation of this project is not in line with the Law on the Spatial Plan of the Republic of Serbia, which violates the Law on Planning and Construction, I would also like to point out some parameters regarding EU waterways. Out of the total amount of cargo transported to the EU, which is 17,5 billion tonnes per year, only 2.8% go on waterways. In Germany, where there are 7,300km of waterways, there are 3.4 billion tonnes of waterways, of which only 6.7% of waterways. So, we talked about, once again, for the public, about billions of tons. In Serbia, two million tonnes of waterways are transported annually. So the difference is a thousand times. Of which, over 50% of the total weight that goes through waterways makes up stone, sand and gravel. So, local traffic. We praised the Railways here, we heard from our colleague Atlagic about numerous savings in Železnica, about how the Railway has more income, less expenditure, etc. I ask if Serbia needs a third kind of transport north-west, because we already have a railway that goes to Macedonia and Greece and we have road traffic? For your information, rails carry 1.8 million tonnes, so not billions, but millions of tonnes annually to Greece and Macedonia, by road traffic of about two million tonnes. So, if we were to focus the existing road and rail traffic towards Greece and Macedonia on water, so via the Morava channel, that would be less than four million tonnes of cargo per year. I remind you that the annual transport in Germany is 3.4 billion tons, so a thousand times more, when you talk about the Rayna-Maina-Dunav channel, etc. In doing so, as minister of traffic, Mr. Antić should also know that the permissive power of our highway is 70,000 vehicles per day, and the average use or average traffic intensity is 6,000 vehicles per day. So there's a big space to step up road traffic, and I think the third kind of traffic, in terms of building the Morava canal, is completely unnecessary. It's an argument when it comes to direct traffic. I also want to make a public comparison of what it means to adopt this agreement, which will be voted by the DS. This means that by adopting this agreement, if our government continues to want to build a channel of Morava, it will be necessary to make such a waterway that will be for a category and a half larger than the Sava River. The Sava River has category four, and after the adoption of this agreement, the Morava channel would have to have category five B. The Sava River has nearly 200 unmanned days. With the entire stream, which has the Sava River, it is more than half a year not watery. So, through South Morava and through the River of Pcinje and through Vardar, which in the summer months completely drys up, we'll make a channel that has more permeable power and a greater flow than the Sava River. It's a fairy tale to me. Here's one piece of information, since I've heard that some Chinese have been going around certain profiles and measuring streams. First, streams are measured at a level of 50 years. The Republic Hydrometeorological Institute has these data and it is extremely unserious that any feasibility study, justification or cost-effectiveness is being conducted on the basis that someone visited a certain river one day and eventually measured the flow of that day and then concluded that it was cost-effective to implement the project. So, South Morava at Vlad's Han's over the summer is under one cubic metre per second. The average annual flow is 19.3 meters cubic per second, and in spring when the streams are up, the flow goes up to 700 cubic meters per second. But it's not a positive side. Why? These streams carry with them a large amount of river application and only for channel bagging is required at an annual level of 500m euros, as far as the channel will certainly not be able to secure through revenues, through its business. There's also a big problem when it comes to translators and elevators. So it's imagined that there are 58 translators and five lifts or elevators on that channel. If security is 99%, which is incredibly high security, it's easy to calculate that the security of the entire Morava canal cannot be greater than 40%. Which means that although it is provided to be floating and bringing water from not knowing what sources, that the canal will not be sailed more than 120 days a year, which in any case and for the already non-existent traffic would not be adequate for anyone to engage in the adventure of going through that canal, but of course would continue to be a total traffic, which is growing from year to year, still going through the Danube over the Black Sea. So, once again, the Democratic Party will support the bill to confirm the European agreement on major internal waterways of international importance, which I hope the majority in this Assembly will also finally put an end to the realization of this Pharaohic, completely unnecessary project for Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26994	Since no word has been reported on the list of parliamentary groups... Excuse me, Mr. Antic just picked up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26995	I think we've had a seven-hour debate today that, to the very end, was very professional, very serious and consistent. I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in it, on one contribution to the seriousness of considering these eight laws that may not have capital value, but in any case they are important for regulating life and work in certain segments that are important for the future of traffic in Serbia, and traffic in Serbia is an economic branch that should be the backbone of the whole pillar and the whole system. I really can't, and I haven't accepted any politicizing or partying on any of these subjects since the beginning of this debate. Regardless of the different tones that I've heard in the last few discussions, I don't accept being part of a debate that has nothing to do with these laws, or that I'm thinking about things deep down are primarily irrational and uninteresting to me. Nor should I argue that the previous composition, the composition of the city government, is the best in history, or that this government is the worst of the old Slovenians, or that I generalise an unfortunate circumstance in which a train traveled 32 hours to Montenegro due to a technical error at Barajev. One human discrepancies in such a situation, which is why some people have been removed from their places, because they did not recognize a situation where they were not allowed to allow the train with passengers to wait for the replacement of the locomotive with cars. In one part, and in the other part, we had stormy weather in Montenegro where the train was costing some extra, I think, nine or ten hours. It's one situation I can't generalize like that. And neither am I to plow with those who, in a desire to be noticed, one bridge that is very precise and reliable can determine how much it costs, cross into some amounts of two and some billions. I repeat, I do not want to be a part of it from any side to come, even when it comes from my MPs' ranks. I have to look back on this last discussion of Mr. Pejcic, because I think, although one failed attempt to politicise a single substance that has absolutely nothing to do with it, I apologize to Senic, who has nothing to do with the legal project that is ahead of us. It is about ratification of the European Agreement on the main internal waterways of international importance. The attempt to say that adopting this and ratifying this European agreement means giving up any project. I have to say, that's absolutely not true. I can't state today the position of the minister of traffic, nor the Ministry of Traffic on the subject of a channel that's talked a lot about in our public, for a great deal of reason why we don't have the elements for such a thing. I know there's a feasibility study, but this feasibility study has to be well studied, well studied, let's see what it's about, let's see how much investment it's about. Until I see something like that, I won't be able to express my political position. In that second segment, I'd like to say that the idea of a channel itself is no one's innovation. It's a hundred-year-old project, something that people in our country talked about at the beginning of the last century, something that, in the 1970s, our institutions made serious solutions, tried to do some feasibility study, and no matter how much it seems like science fiction to us, it's about a project that makes sense anyway. Not only is Mr. Senic in the area of traffic, because this project is not exclusively of a traffic nature. It is a project, which primarily contains specifics that need to solve a huge problem that we have in the water areas, which is regulation of water streams, but which can define in itself other things, such as space for new hydrotherms, irrigation in terms of increasing agricultural production and a whole other set of issues. I repeat, we haven't seen a feasibility study, we haven't seen any idea project, we don't know any orientation project price, we don't know if there's any interest in funding, we don't know if this funding can go in the direction of any concession or if it's a credit line, and until we have all these elements, I don't know about it, I can't plead. I repeat, great gratitude to all the participants in the debate that these legal projects have treated in one serious, responsible way. I also thank these people who are here today on my left, and they have spent the whole day carefully listening to every word you say and recording and making me answer your questions. It often seemed to me that at this table there were maltenes of the same people as at certain times there were MPs in the National Assembly, so I thank them for one responsible approach. I'm here today as minister of traffic, defending legal projects that are on the table, which are in front of you, and I don't accept being part of politicizing, whether it comes from the ranks of the ruling coalition or from the ranks of the opposition. I am not happy about the discussion between Mr Milivojevic and Mr Risticevic because this kind of verbal acrobatics did Serbia no good. Let's be serious and let's do those jobs that citizens choose us for and why they hired us here and put us in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26996	Replica, Alexander Senic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26997	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to meet Mr. Minister to adopt the i.e. By ratifying this European agreement on major internal waterways of international importance, Serbia accepts the obligation that if it is building a new waterway, it must be at least the fifth B category, which means it must be twice as big as the Sava River. I am pleased that you have admitted before such an audience that you still do not give up making South Morava a river or a waterway that will be greater than the Sava River. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26998	Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u26999	I don't understand the logic that you're working on. Neither did I confirm what you're talking about, and I'm just the minister of traffic and I'm not breaking any illusions, nor does that agreement mean what you're talking about. I do not know whether or not the channel will be built, decisions will be made in the relevant places in this country, including the final decision, which, if ever reached, will be made by this Assembly, but I know one thing, that this legislative project does not exclude that possibility. This legislative project defines existing waterways, defines the paths that we are negotiating at the moment with international institutions, and theoretically, if this country ever decides to build this channel, it must be regulated by the interstate acts of the countries it is going through, so it has nothing to do with this matter that is part of this regulation, so I repeat, I don't know whether the channel will be built, but if it is built or not, it has nothing to do with this legal project and solution.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27000	Replica, Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27001	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, I am very grateful for this education, although I disagree with partying, but I want to thank you for finding someone who teaches us what to talk about from time to time, and I would apologize for the price I mentioned for the Belgrade bridge. That's not my opinion. I took it from Branislav Jovin, the designer of the Mostar Loop, who performed in the media on May 25th and said that the Adi Bridge cost 450 million, and that with access to traffic, tunnels and anything necessary for the bridge to be functional, it will come out 2.4 billion. If the information is not correct, I have brought it out from an architect named Branislav Jovin and who is the designer of the Mostar loop, and at no time did not want anything party, and I am not even a member of the SNS, I am only a member of the MP's group, and my party is the People's Peasant Party and I will allow the right to make mistakes, since my party has no special connection with roads or waterways, or railways, by allowing myself the right to carry out the experiences of some passengers and this is not the only delay I was talking about, because there are passengers who travel 14 hours from the King to the New Sad. It affects passenger safety. In principle, I believe that MPs, I don't think that even the predecessor before me missed the topic, in principle when MPs speak they can expand that topic and talk about anything related to traffic security, or these eight laws, or not three as far as they've been said, because it's on the agenda of eight laws. I've been trying to read all eight, something to remember, and my discussion may have gone a little off the agenda, and I'm grateful for the education, but the data that I've made, if I've put out the incorrect ones, I'm putting in the reserve, because I said who I took it from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27002	The word has Minister Antic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27003	I didn't mention any of the party's names for a moment, so I didn't mention any SNS, but I did mention your discussion, and you know best which party you are. When it comes to, although I said I don't want to comment, I highly respect Mr. Jovin, he's a big name, but if he's watching things like that, he's calculating the price of the Gazel Bridge, if we take into account that the access routes for that bridge on Gazela and all possible loops along the highway and highway to the Croatian border and highway to Nis, if we look at it, then the price of that bridge on Gazela is measured in tens of billions of euros, so it's one wrong angle of looking at things. I'm sorry, and I'm not gonna take this subject any more.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27004	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the President or representatives of the parliamentary groups or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27005	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I did not plan to report on these points of the agenda, but simply Parliament has fulfilled its purpose in at least one part, which is that there is still a policy here, a conflict of political programmes, a conflict of different visions of certain things, and that is something that is quite normal in the life of a parliament. Are we going to call it politicization, foreigning, totally irrelevant, and every MP has the right to express himself as he believes the best and the same message to send which he considers to be the best according to the electoral body? It's one of the roles of Parliament. The second role, the primary one, is law-making, so it kind of fits in to be together. What affected me the most was to report to these points of the agenda, an unprecedented courage of fellow Members of the people of the former regime. I really have to give them credit for one huge courage for some of the words they said, and they didn't turn around. Not because there is some danger behind them, but that they may see what they have left behind. When someone mentions a truffle, I can only say that they are waiting in line for a place in a restaurant, due to the delay in the realization of the European Bank's loan for the recovery and development of 200m euros, that two million euros paid in the period 2009 to 2012 were paid to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and that I was at the place of the owner, participant, shareholder of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, I would most like that director who did not hold a public tender, because I did not give him a dinar and I took two million euros from him. Pure profit – where you were – nowhere, what you were doing – nothing, but two million euros in your pocket. There was talk of whether something was compatible. Let's get someone to explain the compatibility between road vehicles and rail vehicles when it comes to railways. How did road vehicles in the Railways of Serbia spend 700,000 euros annually? I'm talking about cars, but not "South, Fiat", other cars. Someone will say when it comes to these railways, and what is it that prevented the remont from being done? We get the answer – there was no money. But there was money for official cars, but there was money for corporate cards. And I'm going to tell you what a corporate card is -- the simplest payment card that goes to "railways" of Serbia, so you go in and out. That's how it was. And that was small, but they had to share phones that made a loss of 40 million dinars. What is it for Serbia's Railways? It will be paid by citizens from the Republika Srpska budget. And that was a little bit, when the budget couldn't take it anymore, then the fuel was paid with cash, so when it couldn't anymore because no one was buying tickets anymore, then the fuel was poured on the railway stations, which proves that passenger cars are compatible with trains because they use the same diesel fuel. If it wasn't serious, it would be funny if it wasn't tragic. So far we've brought our railroad. I don't want to talk about any other things that happened in "The Railways" of Serbia right now. If that breakfast is so slow in France, let the directors pay it out of their pocket, I don't mind. But I do have the impression that the previous regime had an opinion that the railways didn't need it, that the railway was something that was too high, which cost a lot. I guess it was their idea that the factories wouldn't work anymore, that people wouldn't travel anymore. They managed the strategy that everyone from Serbia would probably move out, that only tycoons would remain with the service they needed, to say they had a private state, while the rest of the citizens would likely be fake asylum seekers in one of the EU countries. If it was a strategy, then I understand why such business moves have been drawn. We're all talking about railways as something that may not need to be developed because it's no big use, it's just a expense. In the strategy, we heard from one of our colleagues, let's say Austria, which I consider a serious country, which gives for its rail from 4.5 billion euros in its budget. Whether these Austrians are lagging behind, they don't know what they're doing or taking care of something else, which is that the rail transport after water transport is the cheapest transport and that with rail transport able to accept the challenges of domestic goods on the market is much higher. I think the relationship is four or five times to one in favour of rail traffic, that it's cheaper when transporting goods than trucking? When someone tells me - four million tons of everything; well, it is, four million tons of everything because in Serbia nothing works anymore, because someone thinks we should stay on four million tons of all kinds of goods. We don't need to invest, I think we should invest, not four million tons, but 12, 13, 14, 15, 20 million tons. It's a difference in concepts between SNS and former regime members. We want to move forward, and whoever has to keep turning back and see what he's done with this Serbia when the 2012 elections are over. I'm not telling you this as a politician anymore, but as an ordinary man, how many people are out of work, what kind of economy, what kind of duty. It's gonna take years to fix the damage, not talk about progress, and then make progress. When you mention the budget, you will see that it is 65% of our deficit, so calculate in those four years how many deficits you have made for passenger cars, for telephone cards, for payment cards, for gas at pumps, and then we can talk about truffles and breakfast at France.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27006	The word has Minister Antic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27007	I don't want to do anything wrong. I understood perfectly well the section of Mr. Arsic's message that was directed towards me. I must repeat, I have not given myself the right to define what it is that MPs can speak of or not. It is the president of the National Assembly who organizes and edits the work of the National Assembly, not the minister. I didn't give myself the right to overestimate. I just said I didn't want to be a part of that controversy, because I came here as a traffic minister to defend eight laws, not to participate in interpartial discussions and partying, and I'm absolutely behind it today. If by saying that I am not happy about the discussions between Mr Milivojevic and Mr Risticevic, in any way, I have offended this Assembly, and I am absolutely sorry, and I will take Mr Rističević and Milivojevic for coffee, because I believe the two of them get along much better outside this assembly hall than in this hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27008	The word has a National MP, Borislav Stefanovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27009	I didn't want to answer it either. There's no answer, and everybody's answering, and people have been sitting there since this morning. So, I think it's very important that we just get a few things straight. It is indisputable that we all want the same thing and it is clear that we all want to make this transport of goods far greater than it is now. Of course, we all want all criminals in jail. Of course, we all want all the commoners to be removed from their places and to respond according to the basics of the Criminal Code, if there is a basis for that. In that sense, we don't want to see a division on the party line, but a division on those who committed a crime and on those who didn't. But don't, please, be constantly under the impression that we're talking about a past when, unfortunately, you're talking about the past. When you talk about the past, then remember the state of power of Serbia in 2000. I can also tell you as much as you want about what happened and how the railroad, this same, Simina, today's railway, was then from someone else, paying for the books and badges of Vojislav Seselj and paying for the things that applied to your former party. Same railroad. The flats, not to mention. Not to talk about what it was and who was working from that SRS with which you had nothing to do with it. Since I don't see members of the former regime here, as you say, except me, since I've been negotiating about Kosovo. These people are not members of the former regime. You were probably talking to me. It's a very awkward thing. When I say your regime broke Serbia and the railways in the past, you don't like to hear it. It's an awkward thing. Don't you talk about loans when that same railroad manager hired you half the Vrchins there, gave you a man street by himself, his son drives his jeep to work at the SDPR. You explain that compatibility to me. Explain that to me. How he can work at the SDPR, and he's going to the railroad to work. Just explain it to me. How is that compatible with saving? That's pointless because you're in power for half your term, gentlemen. We're asking for your results. What will you do and what have you done according to your promises? What are your results? What are you going to do with that railroad, so people don't just get paid, but that some bolt there turns on that railroad? That's what we're asking you, and don't lean on Selma out the window. You know, Serbia is a little too much of your jokes. Get serious because the situation is dramatic, and you're in charge of gentlemen almost half the term of office. Let's take that down once. Where are your results? They're gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-13-0.u27010	According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint general and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 10, 11, 12, 26, 27, 28, 29 and 30 of the agenda. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 88 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, MPs on Tuesdays and Thursdays following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs have the right to request information and explanations. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is by MP Enis Imamovic.
