ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18023	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 142 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 98 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 287. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Tuesdays and Thursdays following the opening of the session and the establishment of the number of MPs, Members of Parliament shall have the right to request information and explanations. I'm asking the MPs who want to make this happen to sign up. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18024	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as an MP from Nis on behalf of the citizens of Nis, I must ask a question concerning the decision of the Minister of Culture and Information a few days ago to abolish the funds that were intended to hold the Nisville Jazz Festival in Nis. I must say that this festival, on two occasions, was declared Serbia's brand and as such it represents one and how important an event for this whole part of Serbia, that is, for the south of Serbia, and not only that, but it also represents a very important event for people in the Balkans. I think it's one of these decisions to abolish the Nisville Jazz Festival and how scandalous and that I think there's a need to take all possible steps to grant this festival the funds that were planned. Among other things, over the past two years, these funds have not been much, about two million dinars, the rest has been financed by the city. I also believe that this decision is not only discrimination between Nis and southern Serbia, but as such, it is absolutely discrimination against culture in general, both in southern Serbia and in this part of the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18025	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18026	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is the first day of the end of the importance of the Law on Lustration, a law that was widely expected after democratic changes on October 5th, but a law that has never been applied in its own practice. The SPO-DHSS parliamentary group has proposed that the Lustration Act remain in force. However, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia did not support the proposal of our parliamentary group, which left many expected lustrations and many calculations with all those who were a symbol of evil in the 1990s. For this reason, I ask the Ministry of Justice, Prime Minister, will it be lustrated and will he now propose to the National Assembly again that the law enters into legal force and that they have a political view that it is necessary for all those who have hardly sinned in violation of the human rights of the 1990s? At the same time, today is 12 years since the murder of journalist Milan Pantic. It is amazing, simply, that the state does not have the mechanisms to determine the orderlies and perpetrators of this great crime, so I ask the interior minister, how long has it been since the investigation into the murder of Milan Pantic, and we know that no investigation into the murder of Slavko Curuvija and journalist Dade Vujasinovic has been completed? My second question was addressed to the prime minister and to the president of the Republic of Serbia. The prime minister and president of Serbia have accepted in part the SPO-DHSS programme goals, acknowledging the historic error of the Serbian people made towards the Karadjordjevic dynasty. They bowed down to dead Karadjordjevics, returned the dead kings, queens and princes to Serbia, and now all the Karadjordjevics are resting in their church on Oplenc. The prime minister and president stressed that they are doing this to heal divisions from World War II and national reconciliation. However, in order to truly heal all wounds from the past, all of our division, it is not enough just this move by the prime minister and president. There's a lot more to be done. There is still an overall campaign against Karadjordjevic and the Kingdom, and dictator Josip Broz Tito is still celebrating. The objective historical facts tell us next. The Karadjevics created modern Kingdom of Serbia. In the first and second Balkan wars, they also freed the remaining parts of Serbia from the five centuries-long Ottoman Empire. In World War I, they defeated the Austro-Hungarian monarchy and created the great Kingdom of Yugoslavia. They were always facing a more advanced part of the world and traditional Serbian allies such as France, England and the United States. In all world wars, conflicts and divisions, they were on the right side. They ran a good economic policy, the country was economically stable, the dinar had a gold base. The country's credit rating was excellent and did not threaten the country with bankruptcy. Without severe economic earthquakes, they waged three wars between 1912 and 1918, two Balkan, one world war and all wars came out as winners. In a few years, in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, they have harmonised different legal systems into a single legal system. It is a harmonisation of the legal systems of the Kingdom of Serbia, the Kingdom of Montenegro, the Ottoman Empire and the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. They respected democratic society, a multi-party system, democratic institutions, freedom of the press, human and minority rights. In World War II, Karadjordjevici was sidetracked by traditional Serbian allies, and the headquarters of the Yugoslav government was in London. My question to the prime minister and to the president of the state: So that we are not hypocrites and that we will not finish any work until the end, will they finally return to the true national reconciliation and in order to recognise the truly objective merits that the Karadjordjevics have done for Serbia, that they will finally be deprived of their property unfairly, because we know that after World War II they are politically persecuted, that they have been deprived of their property and that they have been deprived of all civil rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18027	The People's MP Olena Papuga has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18028	Dear Chairman, fellow MPs, we can read in the media these days about the closure of our villages by bank branches, that it has now become a very massive phenomenon and that citizens have major problems, because they have the first and nearest bank 30-40 km. I would ask the finance minister -- how he thinks he's regionally developing all the places in Serbia if the village to this extent is impoverished, that he simply doesn't see that people from the village have their own needs for an ordinary bank. I can tell you that from my village, where I came from, from the Russian Cross, that the Russian Christur had a bank that worked until a few days ago. The branch is closed and 5,000 citizens have to go to Vrbas, about 30 km away, to settle their accounts, although the village's bank did very well, it had 2,000 bills... (President: I would like some attention from my colleagues. ) The bank had 2,000 accounts, which means it was needed by a village such as the Russian Christur, which has 5,000 inhabitants. Of course, according to some policy, since it was private, closed, and simply people have very big problems that they have to go to other villages to raise pensions, which are mostly sick people, they take taxis because it doesn't work either. I ask the finance minister how he really thinks he's developing Serbia and does he think that people in smaller villages don't need a single bank? We know that in 15 years, most of the banks in Serbia are privatised. I understand foreign banks may not have the interest of opening branches in villages, but perhaps it should be considered that perhaps the Post Office or the Commercial Bank in smaller villages will open at least counters, to help people function normally in villages as well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18029	National MP Milorad Stosic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18030	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I have three questions for three ministers – the Ministry of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Foreign and Internal Trade and Telecommunications. At the Second Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we discussed and adopted the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, which the government submitted. We all agreed then that agriculture and rural areas play an important role in Serbia's production development, especially in the process of implementing reforms and transitions, as well as that this economic area will have a significant impact on the country's economic movements in the coming period. The adoption of this law has created conditions for establishing functional incentives in the area of agriculture and rural development for the long term, for rural areas to become increasingly attractive to the young and educated population, and for other jobs with a perspective in the rural environment to be dealt with in addition to agricultural production. Just passing laws doesn't mean solving all the problems that the law regulates. I think it's good to hear, given that it's agriculture and rural development, and I would ask the chairman to silence Parliament a little bit. In recent months, I have been going around the territory of southeastern Serbia, primarily devastated areas and freedom to say that the previous law cannot be implemented without the comprehensive support of other ministries and state institutions. I will stand out only one example that illustrates the situation in southeastern Serbia, and I believe in much of Serbia. On 3 May, I visited the Municipality of Babušnica with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Social Policy Mr Vidojevic, and as part of this tour we visited a village called Red Apple, which once had over 1,000 inhabitants and was the bearer of the development of the entire Lužnička Valley. They had their own time as a MP and a large number of academically educated people. They had four doctors in science. The village has extremely favourable conditions for vegetable, livestock and vineyarding. Now there are barely 50 residents living in the village, with no roads, no water, no electricity, no telephones and a dozen other things that provide the most basic conditions of life. A number of younger people have returned to the village with a desire to live there, but it should be mentioned that they see their perspectives and stay to live and work. In our conversation with the locals, we've heard a lot of problems, but I'm only going to point out three, and it's about these three ministries that I said at the beginning. The electrification of return home in the village, in fact, 70,000 dinars need to be singled out for connection to the power grid. All these households were once connected and paid for the connection in due time. Now, in these households they use oil lamps for lighting. The question for the Minister of Energy, Development and Environmental Protection is: is it possible for those households to join the power grid without paying the connections again or any symbolic amount, and will certainly make up for it in the coming period through the payment of the electricity bill? The nearest asphalt is over 12 kilometers away. The road is mostly impenetrable for vehicles, except for the terrain. They don't have any transportation to the nearest urban site. Today, among other things, we will also discuss the Law on Education, where it is predicted that transportation for each student over two kilometers should be provided. I wonder if that'll work. The locals are asking if it is possible to provide transport to the nearest urbanly populated city, at least once or twice a week? The third question concerns the Ministry of Telecommunications. This village had phone connections back in 1945. They don't have any communication with the world. Since there is a group at the Ministry of Planning and Development, where particular concern about rural areas is highlighted, I ask the minister if it is possible for these people to at least provide some communication with the world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18031	The word is made by the People's MP Slavica Savic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18032	Dear Chairman, MPs, my question is addressed to the ministry, namely health ministers and the minister of education. I am speaking on behalf of the Unions of Nurses and Technicalians of Serbia in order to present a part of the accumulated problem that burdens the profession of nurses and healthcare technicians, with the hope that they will be helped and moved to solve the problem. A union of nurses and technicians of Serbia is a professional organisation that protects the professional interests of its membership of Serbian nurses and technicians. Over 60,000 nurses were employed in Serbia's health institutions, representing 55% of the total health workers. This mass profession of employees is present with a number of unresolved status issues and problems that directly burden the work process, with no minimum of goodwill for years to access the resolution and discharge of nurses who, along with doctors, carry out health work. For years, they have been faced with lack of nurses in hospital institutions, especially in difficult jobs, such as intensive care, cardiology, oncology, emergency services, geriatry. The lack of nurses caused the burden of nurses who were deployed in difficult departments. One sister per 30 patients on shift. The result of this has been the illness of nurses, the acquisition of disability during unconditional and difficult work. The abolition and absence of auxiliary medical workers, paramedics, further directed them to perform physical and paramedical tasks. Studies have shown that nurses suffer at the highest percentage of the locator system disease during their work. Low and inadequate earnings that do not follow the rise in living costs have an additional impact on the existence and status of nurses. It is alarming that the increasing percentage of family support is among the nurses. In a study of 5100 nurses and technicians, 22.4% are in the status of single family supporters. With all this, nurses have been damaged and discriminated over the recognition and evaluation of their higher education. In recent years, they have addressed the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Serbia and other institutions. It is amazing that this mass profession remains ignored and unrecognized in its problems by society, systems, and laws. If there is hope that the departments in charge try to solve problems, at least part of the problem, the nurses' union will be very grateful. Let's not let nurses be our treasure just when we're in hospitals, us or our loved ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18033	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18034	Thank you, Mr. President. We want a date, we want a date! This echoes these days from the mouth of the Prime Minister and other leaders of the ruling coalition or government. Looks like we're not gonna get it. We are not traffickers, the prime minister of the government and Mr. Deger, head of the EU mission in Belgrade. We want a date. Where she was grandfathered several months ago -- we are not doing this with Kosovo because of the date, but because of ourselves, because of Serbia's citizens, because of Serbs in Kosovo, because of the needs in which Serbia is located, for modernisation. We're not doing it because of the date. Now all of a sudden some hysteria, we don't want the green light, we want the date. I guess it's clear that this government is in no condition to get a date. What she could have signed was, but it needs to be done. What wonders now are you from the ruling majority? I'm going to end up putting this on the Prime Minister and the First Vice President, because I doubt it or I guess I'm going to get different answers from those two men. What do you expect? Set up as head of the commission to implement the Brussels Agreement, the man who resigned because he disagrees with the Brussels Agreement and then wonder – see, something is going hard with implementation. Has the previous government signed any agreements? Did the ruling majority say they were going to implement them? Did she implement those agreements? It is normal for everyone to object to the implementation of the Brussels Agreement. It's easy to sign, but it's hard to implement, especially under these circumstances. Place Milan Ivanovic a few months ago as hospital director in Mitrovica and then he will implement an agreement for you, and Vulin who is against the Agreement, and says it is against the interests of Serbia and Serbs in Kosovo. Then all of a sudden we want a date. We didn't do it for a date, you don't seem to get a date. Even Thaci helps you, so he says -- Serbs in northern Kosovo in the October 27th local elections will be able to vote with Serbian documents. Everyone is helping you, and you can't get a date and still be angry with the EU as it says -- see how you're tampering now, setting new conditions. No conditions are at stake. Simply, experience with applying earlier agreements says you should be careful. After all, it is an important agreement, we from the LDP would like Serbia to get a date when negotiations with the EU will start, but it does not work that way. There's no Master Mind. It's not worth it to arrest seven people for the weekend and get a date. Obviously that's not how it works. Look at what it says in the December Council of Europe. Did we do it, did we do it? We didn't. Imagine that the conditions, not these, telecommunications, energy, the application of the Brussels Agreement, are to give us conditions to reduce the budget deficit. We'd never get a date. Some of the ruling majority would jump and say, "What a date." So, I remind you, Serbia's modernisation is the primary task. In order for our society to be decent, we need to start negotiations with the EU because only with and during the negotiations can we change Serbia. If we could change it in a direction that I believe we all want, except for some people who don't like Europe very much, that we can do without some mentor, I guess we'd have done it by now. Since we haven't done it yet, it means we need a mentor. The mentor is called the EU, and when we start negotiations with them, then we will build a legal state, and the fight against corruption will rest on institutions and not on the will of one man, etc. So you guys can hardly make it by the date. To the green light or to the yellow, probably. My question is for the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister – will we have elections if we don't get a date in June? Simply because Serbia deserves a better government. It's an honor for you to sign this, but your realization obviously isn't working, and don't blame the EU for not getting a date and getting mad at their representatives here, but look at yourself first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18035	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18036	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question has been addressed to Minister Rasim Ljajic, whose portfolio includes telecommunications. It concerns those public companies that operate in profit-making, which are also obliged to take care of all other parts of society in the same way as the administration does, the authorities of the administration when it comes to general interest. What's this about? There's no money, especially no money in culture, we listen to it all the time and, of course, we talk about the ministry and we should, but there's a whole series of things, and each of us can do something, because it's not only a question of whether money is there, but also how it's being spent, whether people are hiring more than 20% where there were no ones by systematization, whether the same accounts are being paid incorrectly twice, whether there's funding for what's not in charge, and you can ask all of them every ministry, so you can also ask the Ministry of Culture. But for us as citizens, it is crucial that we enable cultural institutions, those that make up the network, to function in different ways, and also through commercial aspects, and also through commercial contracts with public enterprises, which are also the property of all of us. I'll give you an example. The museum of Yugoslavia, therefore, is the museum we care about now, because we have made a major conference by part of the ministry that is responsible for tourism, because our policy is official to establish as many renewed relations with countries that once made the backbone of the Movement of Unclassified. So, multiple functions, plus the preservation of one part of identity, because Yugoslavia and part of identity in Serbia's history, and it's terribly important to function this museum and, of course, there's not enough money for it. There is a commercial contract with Telecom Serbia, which in one part of the building, not jeopardising a building that was protected, set up its transmitter several years ago and, of course, paid it commercially until 2010. After 2010. Telecom stopped paying for the cultural establishment. Now, to insist that the bills be settled, it offers a contract that will allow payment to continue from the moment the contract is concluded, so to erase debts from previous years. It seems harmless, but please, we are present these days at the situation that the Ministry of Finance, as you know, under the laws that this assembly has passed, is suspending the payment of everyone who does not meet their financial obligations, whether these are public enterprises, whatever their founder, whether it is local self-government, province, city or republic, and, of course, you have two kinds of reactions. One is political -- you hold a press conference, and one is responsible, and that is to call whoever is in your municipality, city or republic responsible, start against him or criminal proceedings or disciplinary proceedings. In the same way, I expect Mr Ljajic's ministry, which has telecommunications as part of its portfolio, to intervene in Telecom, to see how many public institutions, how many cultural institutions there are such commercial contracts, whether they are respected and whether they are at peace. As little money as this is, cultural institutions are also necessary, at least by January, when they may, and I hope not, because I suppose at least the responsible MPs will join together, prevent it, eliminate the kind of own funds that culture institutions, thanks to their own organisation, achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18037	Thank you. The word is made by MP Milan Lapčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18038	Dear Presidency, my question today will be addressed to the Minister of Culture, as my predecessor Mr. Markovic spoke about the policy of the Ministry of Culture. I would like to ask a few questions about cultural policy in Serbia. In the 2013 budget, the government of the Republic of Serbia envisioned 6.2 billion dinars as funds for the Ministry of Culture or a shameful 0.62% of the total budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is common knowledge that a society without good education, a society that has no educational nation and does not have its cultural identity, has no chance nor has a future. Of these shameful 0.62% intended for culture in Serbia, we heard a few months ago that the Ministry of Culture had not devoted a single dinar to cinematography, an important area that shapes the cultural identity of a nation. About a month ago, a competition was completed to co-finance projects in the area of culture. The co-financing of projects in the field of culture has been divided into several areas and of the estimated 177 million dinars allocated in several areas, the total amount allocated to the Southeastern Serbia region, for all cultural projects amounts to 2,650,000 dinars or miserable, shameful and underestimable 1.5% of the total budget for co-financing of projects. From the field of music creation, funds of 35,000,000 dinars will be allocated, of which 22,000,000 dinars will go to projects that come from Belgrade's territory, and for the rest of Serbia, around 14,000,000 or 35%. For Southeast Serbia and the city of Nis, only one project worth 750,000 dinars or 2% is intended. This noise itself in the Assembly shows how important our culture is and how we behave in accordance with the cultural pattern in Serbia. So, out of all the projects that are intended for music creation, only NIMUS has received a miserable 750,000 dinars for this year for festival maintenance, and a music festival "Nishville" that lasts more than 15 years from co-financing and is more recognizable than Serbia's borders. An off-the-book EU newspaper, the New Europe Brussels magazine, titled "Nishville, the European Face of Serbia", assessed the Nis jazz festival as the most significant cultural event of the species in Southeast Europe. This event is of special importance for Nis and Serbia, the ministry of culture's decision was declared a cultural event of national importance in 2009. More than 20,000 viewers visited the festival's main programmes during 2012, including people from various surrounding cities and the whole region. The festival was attended by famous world jazz artists Solomon Burke, Candy Dulfer, Benny Golson, Billy Cobham etc. I ask the Ministry of Culture – on the basis of which criteria are allocated funds for cultural projects? How is it possible that in the area of theatre art of 50,000 dinars, Southeast Serbia is not foreseen with any dinar? How is it possible that more than 80% of the total funding is foreseen for Belgrade projects? How is it possible that out of 450 artists with a national pension are only three out of Belgrade? More than 447 artists with a national pension are from Belgrade. Is this the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Culture of Belgrade or the Ministry of Culture of Serbia? On the basis of what criteria have the funds been allocated? I'm asking the Ministry of Culture to provide information on who's going to get funding to co-finance the projects? (President: Time, Mr. Lapchevic. I'm done. I ask that we be provided with information by regions as far as anyone has received and that the Ministry of Culture review its decision not to allocate funds to such a prestigious festival, so that the festival can live.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18039	Thank you, Mr. Lapchev. The word has the People's Messenger Miroljub Stojcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18040	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers, respected colleagues, my question is about the area of the environment. Namely, it's about the next one. The Republic of Serbia, i.e. the former Ministry of Environment, Mining and Spatial Planning, represented by State Secretary Bojan Đuric, then, the Environmental Protection Fund, represented by Mr Željka Jurakić, 14 towns and municipalities and 14 municipal enterprises from these cities dealing with the disposal of municipal waste, signed a contract in early July 2011 on co-financing of the project – construction and equipment of a recycling centre, i.e. the Centre for the Classification and Temporary Storage of Recycling Material and Specific Waste Flows. I would like to point out that this project covered cities: Užice, Čačak, Kraljevno, Kragujevac, Jagodina, Vranje, Nis, Piroth, Bor, Zaječar, Zrenjanin, Subotica, Sabac, Sombor, i.e. that this project covered about two million people in Serbia. The contract clearly defines the rights and obligations of the Ministry, the units of local self-government and public utility companies with regard to the realisation of the subject matter of the contract, as well as financing through the Environmental Protection Fund. The contract also defined the project to be implemented in three stages. The first phase - construction of technical documentation, second phase – prepares works for construction and third phase – the shipping of the recycling centre. Article 3 of the Treaty specified that the funds were provided in the amount of 42 million per recycling centre, 20 million for the first phase, relating to preparatory works and construction, and 15 million dinars for the dispatch of the recycling centre, while the local self-government unit was obliged to provide the funds necessary for the realisation of the contract in question. Unscheduled circumstances in the process of solving property relations and obtaining a local authorisation have conditioned the need to extend these deadlines for the implementation of that project, but some contract annexes have been defined to implement the project by 1 September 2012. Taking into account the commitments made by the contract, local self-government has taken certain steps to implement the project, in particular, in terms of drawing up a detailed regulation plan, editing the location, in terms of completing, or buying land, making planning documentation and solving infrastructure problems, as well as drawing up technical documentation, to obtaining a building permit. You have to admit that local self-government and public utility have put a lot of effort into solving all these problems and entering into realisation. In addition to the effort, and afterwards, around the start of this project, local communities have also invested significant financial resources. For the city of Vranje, I know that nearly five million dinars have been invested so far. My question is – since all the works have been completed in some local communities, organized construction and technological project documentation, construction permits extracted, prepared infrastructure, and Vranje and Zrenjanin cities are even ready to advertise the tender, will there be any realisation of the project – construction and equipment of the recycling centre, given the signed contracts and annexes of the contract? In communication with local self-government representatives, the opinion prevails that the implementation of these projects should continue for several reasons – environmental, investment, social, etc., or that local communities will be informed that the implementation of this project will not take place and that local communities themselves will try to find partners to realise very important environmental projects. Please, on behalf of the local communities, which have signed that contract, i.e. the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, as well as the Ministry of Finance and Business, give an answer to me and the local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18041	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18042	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the first step on your stupid path to the EU, which later turned a little into a crawl and more to run backwards, was the Law on Public Procurement. You boasted of the benefits of those laws. Do you know, gentlemen of the Progressives and members of the government, the question is also for the Prime Minister, do you read anything other than the party's votes? Did you read this morning's "Blica" that an hour before the tender opened, a 300 million dinar corruption affair was prevented, because you wanted to put your hand in the pocket of Serbian citizens in the process of obtaining CT scanners and magnetic resonance apparatus? Who's gonna answer for that? The affair was exposed an hour before the tender opened, thanks to the brave people who provided evidence to the Anti-Corruption Agency about the rigging of the tender. I ask you, who will answer for this? What will you tell the citizens of Serbia when they wait six months, seven months, per year for a review of the magnetic resonance and the CT scan? Indeed, you carry out various measures to alleviate the crisis and to implement the agreement, but the funeral takes a long time for both the economy and the state. I have to ask you the next thing. Even here in this room echoes the echo of your words from a few days ago when we adopted a set of tax laws, when you boasted of your expertise in the economy that the euro was 110 dinars. I ask Jorgenka Tabakovic, how much is the euro today? Did you pass, gentlemen of the Progressives, by any exchanges today? The exchange rate is 115 dinars. This confirms your ignorance and dilettanteism in the management of the economy. Look at the size of the euro today. Many more Serbian citizens are interested in how much the euro will be on July 31st and September 1st. Although it's not nearly as much as you can and can, what you showed last time – 1999 and 2000. Also, I hear you care a lot about the people, but you seem to worry that they're not starting to live better. Citizens of Serbia, here is the anti-crisis package of SNS and Dragoljub Simonovic. Take good care. For breakfast – Brussels "France" German ham, Cypriot goat cheese, all seasoned with Cuban cigar "Partagas", at a symbolic price of 20 euros per piece. For lunch -a steak with black truffles, Sir Halumni, salmon terryaki, a Danube seine caviar, for dessert-gratined strawberries. "You eat caviar, you drink gin, you have steam, you have as much as you can." Lucky it's not a crisis. Imagine it's a crisis, so it's just a rich guest on the cost of taxpayers in this country. Now I ask you, is there a nightmare like this for Alexander Wolf? Or perhaps there are nightmares when the prince Lazarus comes to his sleep, and he asks him, "Is there a white church of self-restraint de honorary armies before the Kosovo Battle?" Is this why you have nightmares? Or do you have nightmares when Vensan Deger comes to you and says there's nothing on the road to the EU and there's a red light on for Serbia, and these turn on the red light? I ask: What will you do against such? Yesterday, it was 14 years ago as the Kuman agreement was signed. When you say that the Kosovo-Methohic problem is an inherited problem, ask those who are in power today – do they know those 1999 ministers, the vice-presidents of the government? Are those the same people? Did they inherit the problem from Lazarus? From Milutin, who asks for Gracanica? From Stefan Dechanks, who asks about the Boys? From my father? From the Democratic Party? Or is the problem inherited because of the Karlobag-Ogulin-Karlovac-Virovitica policy, because of the policy you have led and represented? Finally, when we see that this path to the EU has turned into a slip and run backwards in large steps, I hear today that you are opening a major shopping mall, another one in Serbia, so you will solve the crisis. I have a solution for you. Make it a big shopping mall. It's all for sale here. Albanians sold organs to Serbs, so they made a state. You sell both your heart and soul just for the red light at the EU light. Think about what kind of politics you've been running and what you've been doing. You can't go to Europe like this. From the date, there will be nothing and there is nothing and think about what you will tell Serbian citizens about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18043	The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18044	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike the individuals whose parliamentary issues serve political speeches, I will ask a specific question to the finance and economy ministers. In 2010, the King’s Public Health Office was in an earthquake that struck the King’s destruction to the ground. The Republic of Serbia and the Public Health Institute are investors and are building a new Public Health Institute building. However, at the time of carrying out the work, there were certain contradictory opinions concerning the calculation and payment of value added tax. Therefore, I ask the Minister for an opinion on the obligation of the investor of the budgetary user of the taxpayer VAT in the area of construction, which concerns the right to deduct the previous tax, with the taxpayer making the turnover referred to in Article 25(2), point 7. The VAT law without the right to deduct the previous tax. In accordance with Article 10(2) of the same law, the investor is obliged to make a charge for the traffic of goods and services carried out at the expense of the taxpayer VAT, the contractor of the works, the accounting and payment of VAT. The Office for Public Health in the Kingdom is an investor in the construction of the second phase of the new building of the Institute. The financial assets and the overall public procurement and selection process were implemented by the Ministry of Health. The building funds were provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Health, as a direct beneficiary of the budget funds, paid to the investor of the Public Health Institute in the Kingdom for these purposes. The Institute paid off the financial assets on behalf of an advance for the construction of the entire construction phase for the value of the VAT account works to the contractor in January of this year. This means that contracted contractors have been paid the total financial resources for works with a calculated VAT. After the first papers were carried out, the first interim situation was signed and certified by the supervisory authority, which contains the total value of the works without the calculated VAT, calling for Article 10(2), point 3. The VAT law, under which the obligation to account and pay VAT is on the investor. It's about building a new facility to perform the work of the Institute. There are all the neat construction and other building permits, that the Institute is bound by VAT and performs the services referred to in Article 25. item 2 of the same law, without the right to deduct the previous tax. There is now a dilemma which makes it necessary to ask Mr. Minister to fill certain fields of 8 and 108 in the PP VAT form, and it is related to a specific case where the PPV obligor carries out traffic without the right to deduct the previous tax. In an opinion received from the Ministry of Finance on 16 January 2013 from the Bilten Tax, the VAT payer who supplies goods and services performs for the performance of goods and services with the right to deduct the previous tax achieves the exemption from the increased VAT. It shall have the right to reject the VAT that has been charged to it by the previous traffic participant as a previous tax subject to the condition that it has an account or other document issued in accordance with the law. This is about the advance payment of total VAT work. The contractor and investor are VAT bonds, whereby the investor carries out traffic without the right to deduct the previous tax. The question is, is it a member of the 28th? The VAT law, where are the conditions for the refusal of the previous tax, also applicable to this particular case? Also, there is a dilemma if there is no right to the positions of the 8th and 108th tax returns due to the inability to deduct the previous tax, in which way do you ask the contractors to recover funds paid on behalf of the overall calculated VAT, so that in the next period of time the obligations of the contractors can be met? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18045	Since none of the presidents or authorised representatives are answering for a word anymore, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Sasa Dujovic, Dubravka Filipovski and Radojko Obradovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that I have convened this session within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts on the agenda set out in the request of 134 MPs to hold an extraordinary session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, apart from the representatives of professors Dr. Zarko Obradović, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, I have called on the sittings to attend both Muhedin Fijuljanin and Prof. Dr. Radivoje Mitrović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, Dr. Zoran Kostic, Ljubisa Antonijević, Vesna Fila, Prof. Dr. Slobodan Stupar and Prof. Dr. Ivica Radović, Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development and Nevenka Novaković, Independent Advisor at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013, which was called upon by the request of 134 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 249 Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you were sent a request to hold the Fifth Extraordinary Session in 2013, with a certain agenda contained in that request. As you could see, for the Fifth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in 2013 the next 1st was appointed. Proposal for a law on basic education and education, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a law on secondary education and education, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law on adult education, submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student and Student Standard, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, submitted by the Government; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Innovation Activity, submitted by the Government; 8. Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products, submitted by the Government; 9. Proposal for a resolution on legislative policy, which was submitted by a group of 25 MPs; 10. Proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on co-operation in the area of agriculture, which was submitted by the Government; 11. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on veterinary co-operation, which was submitted by the Government; 12. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on mutual recognition and acceptance of evidence of compliance with the prescribed conditions for food and food for animals of plant, mixed/combined origin, submitted by the Government; 13. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on co-operation in the field of plant health, which was submitted by the Government; 14. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Council for Higher Education, which was submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society of the National Assembly; 15. Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the National Education Council, which was submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society of the National Assembly; 16. Proposal for a decision on the resolution and appointment of a member of the Republic Election Commission, who was submitted by the Serbian Progressive Party's Parliamentary Group; 17. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted by the President of the National Assembly Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic; 18. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Liberal Democratic Party Group. National MP Stefan Miladanovic under Article 92(2), Article 157(2), Articles 170 and 192(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: The First Joint Principle Search on the Proposal for a Law on Fundamental Education and Education, Proposal for a Law on Middle Education and Education, Proposal for a Law on Adult Education, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the System of Education and Education, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Student and Student Standard, Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Innovation Activity, Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Manual Products. Another single search on the proposal for a bill to confirm the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey on cooperation in the area of agriculture, the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in the Veteran Area, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on the Recognition and Approval of Evidence on the fulfilment of the conditions for food and feed for plant, mixed/mixed origin and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro on Co-operation in the field of plant health. The third single debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National High Education Council, the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of members of the National Education Council, the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of a member of the Republic of Election Commission, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision establishing the composition of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, the Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Does MP Stefan Miladanovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the National Assembly to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: For - 113, no one, with abstentions, voted 30 out of 143 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. Before we continue to work, I would just like to inform you, you have received the resignation of Parliament of the People's Parliament, Milica Delevic, as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly for the purpose of considering this resignation, which has determined that a case under Rule 88(2) of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament and proposes that the National Assembly, within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law, determines the termination of the term of office of this People's Parliament. In accordance with this, and pursuant to Article 88(1), point (2) and Article 3 and 4. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, finds that the term of office, before the time of his election, has expired, has expired, MP Milica Delevic, on the day of his resignation. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. We're continuing our work. (Zoran Babiæ, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) Just to start a joint principled search. Consensually Decisions of the National Assembly to conduct a joint principle search on drafts of the agenda under points 1 to 8, and before the opening of a joint principled search, I remind you that in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly total debate time for parliamentary groups shall be five hours, and this time shall be allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs. The word is Mr. Babic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18046	Rules of Procedure, Article 97(3). This morning when I came to work, Mr. President, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I remembered a time when in Serbia the value of the euro was 119, 120 and was mounted only to meet individuals in Serbia. I walked past the train station, and I remembered the time when mothers used to take children out and show the railroad and train as a rarity, as something to serve. My ears echoed, as I came to work, passwords of 200,000 new jobs, paroles echoed and... (President: I must warn you, Mr. Babico, you have listed Article 97 of Article 3 relating to the extension of time, so please make your statement. )......................................................................................................... and Kosovo and the European Union, and all that time we were light years away from Kosovo and the European Union. Now based on Article 97. The Rules of Procedure, very happy that the most responsible people in this country have taken responsibility to solve problems... (President: Mr. Granny, get back to the agenda. )......................................................................................................... that we do not leave the future frozen problems, but that Serbia becomes a regulated country, I suggest that, in these points of the agenda, which are very important, not only for 876,000 students, as far as is found in primary and secondary education, not only for 125,000 employees in education, but also because these laws, which are on the agenda today, create Serbia's future, the debate doubles and it is 10 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18047	The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18048	Mr. President of the National Assembly, it happens, I advertise the violation of Article 104 that the MP at the Assembly's session abuses the right to breach the Rules of Procedure, happens to have the right to replication, but has never happened to discuss working time or the duration of the debate in parliament in such a way that someone is trying to abuse the business opportunities that it is simply frantic and incomprehensible. I understand that everyone has the right to wake up to the assembly sessions and discuss whatever they want. I am not such an expert in the course of the euro, interest and foreign exchange, but I think the Rules of Procedure know very well and know what is enabled by the Rules of Procedure and what is not enabled. Everyone has the right to remember whatever they want, have the right to take a rubber, you know, have a lot of pens that write the future, but there's no rubber that erases the past. Anyone from their past can erase that memory that hurts him, but there are those of us who remember very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18049	The word is made by MP Janko Veselinović, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18050	I'm advertising Article 107. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Dear Chairman, you have violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing an authorised representative, or head of the SNS parliamentary group, to speak beyond what his intention was. On the other hand, this is becoming a constant. Mr. Chairman, in the last session, you made it impossible for us to talk... (President: I cannot allow you to talk about what happened at the previous session. It's a matter of violation of the Rules of Procedure, nor is it a subject of replication. Don't go into controversy with me. You've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I've been listening to you. If you have nothing to add for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, then I think that's it. Thus, the speaker hurt the dignity of the National Assembly and you should have responded to it. In his address, with a desire to extend his working hours, i.e. to double the debate on this agenda, he talked about the course of the euro, about things that had nothing to do with the agenda, and you did not allow us to talk at a session on the subject at the point of the agenda – a difficult economic situation in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18051	First, that's not true. All MPs at the previous session could, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the rules adopted by your ruling majority, participate in the debate. I didn't bring the Rules of Procedure, but I have to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and all MPs have the right to do so as much as the Rules of Procedure can. Secondly, the picturesque description of Mr Babic, which makes him feel that it is necessary to extend the working time, I have also made it possible for DS MPs to speak very vividly about, let's say, the Gredile ravine and I have never interrupted them or interrupted them, because I believe it is the right of the MP to present in his own way something about the subject he is talking about. I interrupted Mr. Babic when I thought he exceeded what I thought was normal, and at that point he broke up, after about 40 seconds, and moved on to a motion to vote. So whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken will be decided by the National Assembly. So far, the National Assembly has decided that this was not the case and, of course, according to the Rules of Procedure, it will be declared. There's a word, Mr. Babic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18052	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Article 108. I was just talking about my impressions when I came to work. I didn't mention any political parties, I didn't mention any individuals... (President: Please, is this a breach of the Rules of Procedure or a replica? Whatever. (President: You must plead. If it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure, you have to say a member, and if it isn't then... ) I said Article 108, and it may be a replica because I was directly mentioned. Would you allow me? Thank you. Neither did I mention the political party, nor did I mention the individuals, who were called, raised by the Rules of Procedure. Whoever found himself responsible for the things that happened in the past came forward because it hurt him. The truth hurts. Who finds Serbia no longer "Deltalent", which Serbia is no longer a suitable place for crime and corruption, who has found himself called and responsible and who finds it difficult that SNS and Mr. Aleksandr Vukic's policies are in force in Serbia, which is zero tolerance for crime and corruption, have been called and reported to the Rules of Procedure and I don't know what. I was talking about my impressions, which were, and the feelings, which were, when I came to work, and who was responsible for that condition, I think it's more than clear that he found himself and that he reported after the injury of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, I remain on my request to extend the time for debate to ten hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18053	Mrs. Kolundjia, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18054	Mr. President, you have injured a member of 103 because you have allowed the MP to be called on to be a member of 108 who very precisely defines in which cases the President of the National Assembly warns the MP who does not adhere to what is on the agenda. So, you can't just casually invite yourself to any member of the Rules of Procedure, and then say whatever comes to mind. I think he should talk about his impressions of coming here to his wife, not here to us. So if he already wanted to talk about impressions, then maybe it wouldn't be bad to remind ourselves that inflation, when he came to work, because it was in power then his party, was with hundreds of digits behind the bill that we were getting and we could buy a kilo of bread for. He could remember that when he came to work at the time, the refugee rivers left the houses, and the houses were burned down. He could remember that when he went to work, NATO bombed this country for a policy that was then conducted. So, if he remembers already, then let him remember what we're still paying the price today, and that's why what these advanced radicals are doing today is why we're terrified of what's waiting for us in the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18055	I was interpreting it. That's why I asked Mr. Babic's MP on what basis he's answering. Since Mr. Vesenovic directly mentioned him, I interpreted it as a replica, and therefore I allowed him to represent, according to article 108, he would not have the right to plead. Since Mr Babic said it could be a replica, at that time there were no other registered speakers in the system, I gave him the right to reply, not to harm the Rules of Procedure under Article 108. Mr. Babici, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18056	Article 107. - the dignity of the National Assembly was violated by mentioning family members. What impressions and feelings I will share with my wife and with my family is my personal matter. The values that someone in this room is trying to bring in are very ugly. Neither am I, nor will the SNS ever mention a single member of the family, and I think that these values are all but democratic. My feelings are the feelings of a man who walks very freely and when he comes to work and is always among the citizens. These are the feelings I'm conveying from the street, these are feelings that I'm conveying hidden behind the darkened glass cars that you've been driving in and you didn't want to see what the people think and what the citizens of Serbia think, and that's why it's very important and very painful to carry these feelings both here and through this room. I ask you to influence that the members of the family of no MP, whether in power or in opposition, are not mentioned. I think it's against the Rules of Procedure and against any other rules, but the feelings of people and my personal feelings I will speak in this room.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18057	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Palalic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18058	Mr. President, Article 27. I don't know if my colleagues have forgotten what this debate is all about. First, the ruling majority adopted a joint search of eight points, not getting any explanation of what connects them all. After that, we received a proposal to double the debate on this very strangely established agenda and then a discussion was opened that had nothing to do with this proposal. Today we have heard the importance and importance of the laws that we need to talk about, which are large numbers, millions of people are probably following the debate, expecting to hear what their children are waiting for, and now here we are looking at a debate between the two political parties. You'll get a chance to talk about it. Please, Mr. President, apply the Rules of Procedure and let us make this clear. I believe there is an absolute will to support this proposal, but don't let this further debate turn into a complete demeaning of the importance this debate has. The entire ministry is here in fact, and we all expect this debate to open now. But we'd like to hear a rational proposal, a rational explanation -- why did eight points come together that didn't have everything to do with each other and then ask for a double of time? We can hardly figure that out. However, we will accept this proposal, but absolutely and rationally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18059	Thank you. We're moving on to a decision. I would like to vote on Parliamentarian Zoran Babic's proposal that the time foreseen by the search be doubled. I ask the National Assembly to plead. I conclude the vote and declare: for – 145, against – no one, with abstention – voted 21, out of the 166 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I open a joint principle search on: Proposal for a Law on Fundamental Education and Education, Proposal for a Law on Middle Education and Education, Proposal for a Law on Adult Education, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Student and Student Standard, Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Salaries in State Authorities and Public Services, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Innovation Activity and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography of Semi-Manual Products. There's been reports. Mr. Stay, according to the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18060	Yes, according to the Rules of Procedure, regarding Article 27. Please let us add the list, because now it's a double debate, so more people can talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18061	Okay, we've just got that resolved positively. Does Professor Zarko Obradovic want a word? (Yes) Just sign in, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18062	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development on topics discussed today by the Assembly. First of all, I would like to meet the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia if yesterday, in agreement with the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to offer all MPs and MPs who want to do so in four terms, 13, 15, 17 and 19 hours, to discuss the laws that are on the agenda today and I would like to thank all those MPs and MP groups who participated in the conversation yesterday. Also, yesterday I suggested increasing the time of debate for these points that are on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because I felt that there was a need to discuss, in particular, education laws in the area of education in double the time, because education for all of us in the Republic of Serbia is very important. Before I move specifically to the draft laws on which it is concerned, I want to tell you that four laws apply to the field of education and education, that one law applies to student and student standards, one is related to the reception of employees in higher education and two laws are from the field of science. I would like to remind the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs present that the laws on basic education and education, on secondary education and education, on the law on adult education and on the basic system of education and education have already been in the assembly procedure since January 2012, that we also had a public debate on these laws that we organised in certain cities, that because of the elections, there was no possibility that these laws would be the subject of discussion in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that they were withdrawn, that the education strategy of the Republic of Serbia was then adopted last October of the year, that after that, the content of the law, to the extent that it required the content of the education strategy, that we had agreed all the laws with other laws that treat this area. In one word, we now, and this is the essence of these education and education laws, with discussion and adoption of the proposed laws, we complete the legal framework for the improvement of the education system in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to remind the Assembly and present MPs that we had only two laws adopted in the period 2001 to 2008 – the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System and the Law on Higher Education, that we passed three laws from 2008 to 2012 – the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, the Law on Preschool Education and Education, the Law on the Learning and Student Standard, and that in the first year of our term, this government is now adopting three new laws – the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, the Law on Secondary Education and Education and Education, and the Law on Adult Education, a law that we have not had so far as such. Also, I want to remind you that the laws on basic and secondary education have been brought back in 1992, 21 years ago, and that we in the contents of this law have incorporated all those good experiences of our educational practice, that we have sought to address all those good solutions, which are now part of the education system and of the European area of education, let us apply to us, that we have had conversations with our social partners, that we have tried to respond to all the challenges that present economic and demographic situation poses with us, as two important limiting factors for improving education and education systems. I can say after all that the Assembly will debate and hope to adopt laws that will increase the scope of children subject to education and education systems, that these laws will improve quality, that justice will increase, that efficiency will increase and accessibility will be greater. Children’s equality and social equality were also taken into account. The law promotes the educational role of school and strengthens ties with all partners who are part of the education system or who influence education and education. In order to create a picture of what education means to us, since everyone is talking about education as a strategic resource for the future development of any country, which is logical for us in Serbia, I want to remind you that at this point at the level of primary and secondary education we have 876,222 students, that these students are located in 1,804 schools with out-of-state schools, that there are 42,666 classes in these schools, that we have about 105,000 employees in primary and secondary education and that part of the education system is made up of 70,000 preschools. I wouldn't talk about higher education, the number of students and the number of employees, because the whole system includes over a million and 300,000 users and about 126 thousand employees. I am saying this for the reasons why it is important to mention the conditions, i.e. the coverage and number of users of the education and education system. I also want to tell you that we have taken care of what can be done through proposals for individual solutions and strategy. We couldn't apply some solutions now, because there are neither spatial nor material conditions. Some solutions simply cannot be innovated at this time. We found a system that is very dispersive, which has produced a large number of objects over the years, which has employed a large number of people, where unfortunately we have a significant number of electoral items and where we have a large number of employees, is estimated at around 28,000, which do not have a full fund of lessons. If I tell you that only first grade students have, in addition to Serbian, or native language, mathematics, the world around us, visual, musical, physical, foreign language, civic or religious education, as well as some other electoral subject, then you can understand what other levels of education students have as content of the subject. I'm saying this because in public, you can't hear this data and you're trying to draw public attention to something else. You must always come from what you have, what the system does and what it can do in the next period. In any case, with these laws, or their adoption, along with the Education Strategy, which we have adopted, we are practically the only country in the region that has both system laws and education strategy. Our Croatian colleagues are trying to adopt a strategy before they are formally recognised as an EU member, but they themselves say it is a very complicated job. I am saying this because education as a strategic resource of the Republic of Serbia deserves the attention and respect, of course and investment, but also the resolution of all the concrete situations that exist in the education and education system. We had to keep some solutions. We couldn't meet the demands of individual unions at this point, although it's our strategic commitment to make the number of students in the class 25, but at this point it's just not possible. We would love that, but it's simply not possible because there are no spatial and material possibilities, as some other questions we couldn't or couldn't solve right now. In any case, it remains a question that will be resolved in the future. The talks we had yesterday included several questions related to the number of students in the department. I must tell you that in both primary and secondary schools, the number of students in the class was limited to 30. With the increase that number is divided into two departments with a smaller number of students. The issue of the number of departments in Serbia gained importance with the demands of individual unions that the number of students in the class be reduced to 25. I would like to inform the Assembly that at this time our system is unable to resolve this issue in a proposed way, for the simple reason that we do not have any spatial or material possibilities. When I say spatial and material possibilities, I would like to inform the present MPs that at this point we have 14,415 departments that have more than 25 students, which is 33.8% of all departments in Serbia. If you add 6,835 units to this figure, where we have less than 15 students, that means there's almost 50% of the departments that have 16 to 25 students left. I ask the National Assembly and the MPs present to consider this situation. So now we have about 50% of the departments from 16 to 25 students. When I said we weren't able to accept that request, the simple calculation shows that if we had more than 25 students at primary and secondary education level, we would multiply only by five, we would count to 30, that's 72,075 students. When we divide that number by the number of students, we get to the new 2,883 departments, ideally for each department to have 25 students. Educational workers, those who are more involved in education know that this ideal number in practice would not exist, that there would actually be a number of departments with fewer students. When you multiply that number of departments with the number of executives, which is the teaching staff, then we come up with a figure of 7,500 to 8,000 new people. It is true that a number of people could be engaged in the order of people who represent a technological surplus at the moment, but in any case, this solution would require the engagement of new perpetrators. It's just something that's not possible right now. Since it was one issue that was given some importance to the public, I wanted to tell you this and tell you that we have agreed with the unions the formation of a commission to deal with the production of the coefficient, to make or even the difference, to make a certain difference in income between employees and that this commission will work for the coming months. We also talked about law and specific services, but we also talked about the subject of funding per student's head. The union's request was to postpone this until 2020. I want to get to know the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that, according to the current Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, funding by head of students is foreseen in 2014 and 2015, not in this school year which is now coming but in the next school year, and that we in the Ministry planned to carry out a test of funding by the head of the students, this project, by selecting 16 municipalities, three cities in Belgrade, five towns in Serbia and eight municipalities, a total of 16, where we will carry out the testing of these formulas, where the number of students will not be the only criterion that will affect the content of these formulas, but will also be taken into account on the demographic situation, on the education structure, on infrastructure, on the distance from the parent school, on all the elements that are important to the education and education system. We think there's nothing wrong with testing one formula, so let's see what the effect is. If there are problems, we will also sit down with the social partners but also within the ruling coalition and make all that public, to see what we can do in the coming times. When it comes to the obligation of secondary education, I want you to know that at this point 98% of the founders are enrolled in high school and that the issue of obligation also has a normative side, is it possible in law to prescribe an obligation that does not exist in the Constitution, but in practice our education system has shown that the number of high school students regardless of the issue of obligation is greater than in some countries where it is mandatory. In any case, these are all issues that are interesting these days and which deserve your attention because yesterday some MPs asked these questions as their own questions, so I thought it would be good at the beginning of the talks to give answers, so there would be no doubt what it means in practice. I would like to brief you on the content of all these laws that the Assembly will discuss today. When it comes to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, this law regulates basic education and education as part of a single system of education and education in the Republic of Serbia. It contains 15 chapters, 106 members. I will briefly mention only the key elements of this law: the law does the typeology of schools according to the education and education programme on national and foreign schools, and according to the founder – public or private. What's important is that there are schools for education students with developmental disorders. Children are educated, regardless of the type of interference and in order to improve inclusive education, this school provides additional support to schools in the system of regular education and education. It is proposed to establish a school of special pedagogical orientation, when ensuring that standards for the completion of primary education and education are met. Of course, the course course is mandatory and elective, and in private school instead of election classes can implement other classes according to the school program. Faculty courses can be studied in school according to the school program. The school contains a development plan and a school program, where the content is elaborated, including measures to improve quality. Increasing the coverage of school sport programmes, sports activities, protection against violence, abuse, neglect and prevention programmes of other forms of risk behaviour, professional orientation, co-operation with local self-government, family co-operation. The course is the basis of the educational-experienced process at school. Preparation for the course in question for fourth-grade students is provided for twice during the school year, or once during the mid-term. The school can also organize day-long teaching and extended stay, the school can organize classes for students at home and hospital treatment, for students with major health problems or chronic illnesses. The law provides for both home and distance teaching, with the conditions required to achieve and ensure quality and evaluation. Of course, it involves the existence of an individual educational plan with adapted standards. The duration of time is 45 minutes. I was already talking about the number of students in the department, up to thirty students in the class. It is also foreseen who may be, for the students of music and ballet schools, free from the teaching of an election course at school at the request of parents, or guardians. The law envisioned the diet of students, the organisation of a school facility. We have resolved the question of religious teaching, in the same way as in the Law on Elementary and High School and the programme and composition of committees. We predicted the school's obligation to have a library that the school should also carry out cultural activities. It is important that it is prescribed that celebrations are organised at school or in agreement with the local self-government unit in cultural institutions. The introduction of the yearbook, presentation of work, the website, presentation of the programme and the organisation of work and written data on activities in the organisation of educational work is foreseen. The law also contains provisions on the minimum working process, which regulates the strike of employees. Yesterday, by some MPs, it was a question – why are these provisions an integral part of education laws. I want to say that the National Assembly knows these provisions. These provisions are part of the educational law because no strike law has been passed. If a strike law was passed, this provision should not exist here and not be a place for them here, but until the strike law is passed, there must also be a way of functioning the education system as public works and what obligations are employed. Also, coordination of school organisations and general acts has been established. In the transitional and final provisions, we have foreseen what should be done within six months of the date of entry into force of these laws and which are sublegal acts, eleven of them to be adopted within two years of the date of application. Otherwise, the application of the law will begin in school 2013/2014. When it comes to the law on secondary education and education, he has 11 heads, 101 members. I was talking about reasons, but I'm just going to mention that it's not just harmonising with the system law in the field of education and education, it's also creating legal assumptions for better functioning of the secondary education and education system and improving the quality of teaching and learning. The law more detailedly regulates exams ending a certain level of education, graduation, final exam, admission exam issue, education of students with developmental disorders, education in the languages of national minorities, the issue of records. Of course, the educational role of the school has been strengthened. The school programme covers all domains of teaching and extracurricular activities. The law provides for the development of a career management programme and counselling of students. Development of the school sport programme, partnership between school and parents based on principles of mutual understanding and respect and trust, prevention of violence, abuse, neglect, the role of local self-government and the entire social community in various aspects of life and the work of students. When it comes to secondary education and education programmes, there is an obligation to adopt curricula and programmes and they are adopted in accordance with the system law and this law, the school development plan has been developed. The school program promotes the increased educational role of the school. It covers all kinds of teaching and extracurricular activities, regulates the partnership of schools and parents, the role of local self-government and the type of programme, further support for education and education has been promoted. The aim of this law is to achieve optimal involvement of students and adults in regular educational and educational work, independence in the peer collective and its advancement in education and preparation for the world of work. The law contains a programme of protection against violence, abuse, malpractice, prevention, and other forms of risky behavior. It is interesting that the law provides for the inclusion of students, employees of parents, in co-operation with the local self-government unit. Institutions in the fields of culture and sport, peer intermediaries, persons trained for prevention and intervention in the event of violence are also involved. There's a list of persons trained to prevent and intervene in schools. The possibility of setting up a centre model is foreseen. These are schools that also implement other programmes and activities aimed at improving educational training, increasing quality and availability of education and education. Closer conditions for the work of the centre model are prescribed by the minister. When it comes to the achievement of education and education, it is provided for distance teaching, as well as in the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. When it comes to practical follow-up and professional practice, I mention only some of the elements, it is a newspaper that practical teaching and professional practice in schools can be achieved in collaboration with companies, institutions and other organisations or other legal persons. When it comes to other forms of direct educational and educational work, it is a newspaper that prepares courses for students who are scheduled to pass a correctional exam, it is at least 10% of the total annual number, a preparatory course for the performance of prom and final exams. When it comes to the achievement of education and education, as so far solutions are foreseen in terms of the number of classes, the duration of classes, I said about the number of students. The law accurately determines the question of enrolment of students and adults. The paper is that the right is acquired by a person who completed primary education and education, including the final exam. The law also provides for registration procedures. The paper is that the school's data is prescribed to the ministry in the enrolment procedure, of course, the way in which data can be made available to students of individual schools, registration procedures, the choice of foreign language. What are the papers about student qualities? This is the right for the student to go from school to school or other educational profile, regardless of the duration of education, that a regular and extraordinary student has the right to enroll in the relevant class by 31 August at the latest, unless a procedure has been initiated to protect the rights of students when enrolment is made after completion. The rights and obligations of the students are the same as before. When it comes to grading, the paper is that at least three times during the midterm, and especially if the Sunday course fund is one hour, the student is evaluated at least twice in the midterm, because it is also settled in the system law. The overall success of students at the end of the first and second term is determined on the basis of the arithmetical environment from positive, final numerical assessments in the case and the assessment of the conduct. Of course, when it comes to exams on the basis of which a certain level ends, we have a general graduation, professional and artistic graduation, a final exam of secondary and professional education, education and specialist master's exam and exams from other forms of professional education. The law contains provisions relating to general graduation, professional and artistic graduation, specialist and master's exam, part of the provisions relating to records and public documents and recognition of foreign school diplomas. This law, as well as the Fundamental Education Act, contains provisions concerning the issue of strike and of course transitional and final provisions. When it comes to the education of adults, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People, I would like to inform you that this is a completely new law that has great importance for the system of education and future development of the Republic of Serbia. Before I say a few words about this law, I would like to share with you the data of the Republic Statistics Institute on the educational level of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, based on the 2011 census, in order to understand what this law might mean in addition to the existing ones in order to achieve the ultimate goal of raising the level of education. If we take, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, two undeniable elements, it is that the demographic situation in Serbia is bad, that we are already among the five oldest people in Europe, among the 10 in the world. The only condition for Serbia's future economic development is an increase in the educational level of the population and, of course, greater efficiency. The 2011 census data say that at this time without school preparation there are 2,68% of people in Serbia or 164.884, with incomplete primary education of 11% or 677,499, with primary education of 20.76% or 1.279.116 people, with secondary education of 48.93%, means the majority of the population of the Republic of Serbia has secondary education or 3,015.092, with higher education there are 384,335 persons or 5.65% and with higher education of 65.2.234 persons or 10.59% of people in the Republic of Serbia. I'm telling you this because this adult education law needs to help many people who don't have the right level of education to acquire it, some new skill to improve, get the opportunity to keep the job they have, to open their doors to a new job, a better standard of living. In one word, this law is extremely important and it is one of the laws that previously did not exist in our education system and together with the Law on Fundamental Education and Education, secondary education and education, this is one of the pillars of the educational system in the Republic of Serbia. We first pass a law that regulates adult education in the context of lifelong learning. The law pre-regulatorys informal adult education, the specificity of adult education in the formal education system. The Law on adult education provides for the ability to learn and acquire competence and qualifications throughout life, to regulate informal education, to create conditions for the recognition of competence and qualifications acquired through informal education and experience learning, to establish a system of recognition of previous learning, to establish a system for the approval of accreditation of institutions, organisations and programmes for informal education. The goals to achieve by adopting a law on adult education is to improve the education and qualifications structure, I mentioned the 2011 census on the educational structure of the Serbian population, improve opportunities for employment, increase professional mobility, reduce poverty, improve quality of life, integrate into European and social and economic space. The Law on adult education regulates the objectives and principles of adult education, adult education activities and conditions for achieving them, participants in ensuring the quality of adult education, conditions for gaining competence and qualifications, the procedure for recognising previous learning, records and public documents in adult education, plans and programmes for adult education, participants in achieving adult education, the adoption and implementation of an annual plan on adult education, planning and funding of adult education. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in order to fully understand the importance of this education, please just pay attention to the members of 43rd and 44th relating to the plans and programmes of adult education, in order to see the diapazon of all the measures and objectives to be achieved and to see which programmes are formal and informal education, because, in themselves, these two members seem to me more than others, talking about the importance of this law and the objectives that they wish to achieve. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, we have provided for several newspapers in this law. It has been demonstrated that the education system must create the possibility that children, students and adults with developmental disorders, with disabilities, without a view to material and other conditions, have access to all levels of education. The need to reduce the rate of depletion of education and education systems, particularly those of socially endangered categories of the population and undeveloped areas, persons with disabilities and other persons with specific learning difficulties, has been stressed. It is prescribed in Article 8(4) that the teacher, educator and expert associate must have education from psychological, pedagogical and methodical disciplines acquired in the higher education institution, during the course of the study or after graduation with at least 30 points and six points of practice in the institution, in accordance with the European score transfer system. We have added a new position that explains the obligation of higher education institutions to implement an education programme - within an accredited study programme or as a lifelong education programme in accordance with the rules governing higher education. We've changed the law in the department of councils and institutes. The need for competent advice and the National Educational Council and the Council for Professional Education of Adults to systematically monitor and analyse the depletion of children and students from the education system and to establish proposals for measures to continue education of persons who have left the educational system is highlighted. We've foreseen the establishment of an education and education agency. In addition to the tasks provided for in the law, the establishment of the agency also provides for the recognition of institutions that will deal with adult education. The formation of this agency is foreseen from 1 January 2016. Of course, the government will make a decision on that. I know that just mentioning the agency is causing a kind of negative emotion, given the experiences we've had in the past decade with different types of agencies that have been established. What I want you to know about this agency is that they won't hire new people. When established, it means that part of the jobs that are now within these two institutions, to improve education and education and to evaluate quality, will be part of the jobs of this agency and, of course, employees. In any case, the government will make a decision. Since this has been potent several times and in the previous period as something that would have to be an integral part of the education system, and this is also contained in the education strategy, we will see when negotiations start and what education obligations will be related to the education agenda. When it comes to amending the Law, training facilities are foreseen, i.e. A system for practical training and preparation of students, future teachers is being built. Conditions are being created to develop links between school and the relevant colleges for teacher education, a missing relationship in the system of education between school practice and the university where students are educated for the job of teachers. Higher education institutions are provided with a space for schools, where students and future teachers will practice and thus achieve six points in line with the European system and related to the previous solution. When the word is a network of schools, the existing legal solution is not enough to bring an optimal network of all school institutions that involves reducing the number of secondary schools and increasing the number of high schools. It is proposed to delete existing criteria and to adopt new criteria by the government that would be in line with the strategy, as the strategy provides for an analysis of the network of secondary schools, the transformation of individual vocational schools, which is extremely important in high school, and to create a new network that will be in line with the needs of the economy and demographic movements in the region and the local environment. An Andragogian assistant has been defined as a person who provides support to adults in involving in the education system and helping to eliminate difficulties in the course of education. It is proposed to amend laws that regulate the right to an individual educational programme. The role of the ministry in monitoring, applying and evaluating the practice of this instrument of support for children and students is prescribed. The possibility of delaying the enrolment of children who, at age, have been established that they can be entered, but only in exceptional cases, because experience in practice shows that there is a need to, in exceptional cases, when the child's interest requires it, allow the child to be put off in the first grade of primary school. This does not endanger the inclusion of the education and education system, but is further adapted to the specific needs of the child. Of course, each child will be covered by basic school education and education, and the regulation of a mechanism for supporting a child on family relation, a resolution committee, preschools and schools for a period of one year, for as long as possible delay, provides a better attitude for the child and family and provides the possibility of the school being properly prepared to provide quality education and education. The right of exile and displaced persons, as well as persons who have been returned to the country under the Readmission Agreement, has been strengthened to learn the language in which they continue for preparatory and supplementary teaching. It is the harmonisation of our law with the Council of the European Communities directive. We've already talked about grading other laws. Major infringements of the student's obligation have been increased. I want you to know that we have brought these provisions into line with the social partners, with the unions. The student is responsible for behaviour that endangers the safety and safety of other students, teachers and other employees leading to physical and psychological injury. The weight of the student's injury was often caused by minor injuries provided that an increased educational work with the student was undertaken and that the phasing out of the measure was respected. Changes have been made regarding teachers, educators, professional associates and other employees. The condition for admission to employment for all employees is the knowledge of the language in which education and learning of the Serbian language is achieved, not only of the language of the national minority, if the teaching is achieved in that language. It was arranged for the first time to recognise education acquired in former SFRY republics, education acquired in the military education system, education acquired abroad, when, in the opinion previously obtained by the relevant higher education institutions, the minister determines whether its kind is appropriate for the teaching professions. The reasons for the withdrawal of the licence have been increased. The work is defined beyond the full standard of time. That's what we also agreed with the unions. The law contains a provision on the takeover of an employee as a way of establishing a working relationship. A position has been added to which a solution prescribed by a special collective contract for primary and secondary school employees, in the pupils' homes, is passed into the law that no competition can be called for entry into employment until the possibility of taking over an employee who has remained unscheduled or who is working with an incomplete schedule of hours has been examined. A solution has been deleted that requires the opinion of the managing authority to decide on the choice of teachers, educators, expert associates. Amendments have been made regarding the termination of the employment relationship at the request of representative trade unions. The 2009 solution was returned, that the teacher, teacher or professional associate should stop working at the end of the school year, where he is 40 years old, 65 years of life and at least 15 years of insurance. We changed the deadlines for the big prom. The reason is that standards of student achievement have not yet been adopted on the basis of which new curricula and programmes will be adopted. After adopting standards, they will gradually enter into a reform of secondary education. The first reformed year in secondary education is planned to be school year 2014/15 years and 2017/18 years of the first year on which graduation would end. Dear colleagues and colleagues, these are the provisions of the law relating to education. I want to tell you something else now. We in public often have one situation where our education is underestimated, that it is qualified negatively, that, speaking of education, we use epithets that our education does not deserve. I am saying this because, regardless of the position in political life, education is something that is set as a future condition for Serbia's development. It's not good for strangers to talk about our education better than we say. I dare say our education is good, it's good quality. This does not mean that we have solved problems, on the contrary, that we have just begun to edit the system and to solve a number of issues and problems that we have inherited from the past, because simply in decades behind us education in the system of values has slipped somewhere at the end of the system of values. With the inability or the absence of a desire to make a proper investment, we have come to the situation that we have to deal with many problems with objectively modest material resources. This is what I want to tell you in the context of the fact that the budget of the Ministry of Education is such a structure that around 93% – 94% of funds go to employees' salaries. The remaining 6% is for all levels of education, from pre-school, pre-school prep, primary education, secondary education, student student standard, higher schools of vocational studies and colleges, not to mention infrastructure and equipment. If I tell you that we have 700 million dinars for investment at all levels of education, it won't mean much, the figure itself. If I tell you that it is 6.7m euros, and according to EU standards, one secondary school with a school hall costs 2.5m euros, then you will realize that it is two and a half schools that can be made. We've got 1804, plus a class of those parent schools. I mention this because objective money is placed as a enabling factor in raising the quality of our education. That everything isn't so black shows the results of the students. We also have individual results, I have to tell you that our high school students have achieved great, fantastic results in various competitions in mathematics, physics, astronomy, information and language, that our students are the languageiest in the region, that we have won over 400 medals, i.e. They won in Serbia's name over 400 medals at the Olympics, world and European competitions, which in itself says we have a great school within the system, but the point is to raise the quality of the entire education system. That's where the first steps were made. I want to tell you, since this is often presented in a very incorrect way in public, that in 2009, we did international research, participated in "Pisa" tests as tests assessing the quality of the educational system of a particular country, that Serbian students then scored 442 points on the scale of reading literacy, 442 points on the scale of mathematical and 443 on the scale of scientific literacy. This is about 60 points lower than OECD countries, which is equivalent to an effect with slightly more than one year of education in OECD countries. What's important and it's bad, we haven't made progress on the list because the difference between us and the next states is very high. What's good is that students from Serbia in the field of reading literacy achieved compared to 2006, because we worked 2003, 2006 and 2009, we'll see what the results will be now in December of this year compared to the previous one, but compared to 2006, the results are significantly better. Progress is 40 points and is one of the biggest improvements that some country has recorded between the two tests so far. Also, the percentage of students who did not reach functional literacy from 52% in 2006, to 33% in 2009. This decline in the percentage of functionally illiterate is almost 20% of the highest some of the countries have achieved in the Pisa research. This is not what I said. This is said in an official OECD report dealing with "Pisa" research. Of course, there is also a ranking where we are compared to these specific areas. Another good indicator that the system is changing for the better, or to raise quality, is research "Tims". The studies were in 2003, 2007 and 2011. The 2011 survey was carried out in the fourth grade, the previous two years were in the eighth grade of primary school on a very representative sample. In total, 4379 pupils from 150 primary schools, 219 departments were tested. Serbian students scored 516 points on the math test and the natural science test, both of which represent a achievement that is statistically significant more than the "Tims" scale average. I have to say this, because this shows that in the first cycle of education from first to fourth grade, the 2011 research has shown excellent knowledge of our country. The average score of 516 points ranks Serbia among the countries whose score is statistically significant above the "Tims" scale average. Results from natural sciences too. The overall results of our students are encouragement for all of us to achieve good results in the first cycle of education. I felt I needed to tell you this because we have a lot of work to do. No matter who committed the government or who ran the ministry, because education is important to us. The funds do not have much, and the demographic situation is very bad, and it is also good that we integrate all good proposals into the content of the law relating to education, i.e. that everything that is not good in the education system is eliminated, and that good things we promote to improve the education system because of children who attend and because of our future. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Student and Student Standards, I will say very briefly that this law essentially refers to student scholarships, raising the average rating for obtaining a student scholarship to 9.00. The bottom line is that we have seen continuity in increasing the number of students who meet the required conditions for the achievement of the grant rights, i.e. who have passed the exam and achieved success with the average score of 8.50 so far. In 2002, 1174 scholarships were granted and 14021 scholarships were granted. Now we're increasing to 9:00, but those with a lower average won't be damaged. Instead of the scholarship, they will receive credit, and if they finish within the average rating, they will not repay the loan. We had to because of the limited resources to solve this issue. We've come to terms with the amendments and additions of this law to shut down the talent fund because it didn't exist as such. All the jobs that this fund was supposed to do were actually done by the Ministry, the Republic Fund for the Development of Scientific and Art Rejuvenation. In the past years, it was an obligation of education and culture, in the last decade it was only education. It was essentially done by the ministry, so that by doing so nothing will essentially change, related to the scholarship of students and students. When it comes to the Law on Payments, it is only a matter of harmonising with the Law on the Budgetary System and creating the possibility of higher education institutions having the means to obtain, they can manage and dispose independently of the funds they make by carrying out their regular activities. It's about the harmonisation of the law. Finally, let me just say a few words about the Law on Innovation Activities, i.e. amendments and additions to that law and the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductive Products. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Law on Innovation Activity, the law was passed in 2005. Menjan was complemented in 2010, when the shortcomings observed in the previous application of the law and under legal acts, which continue to form the only system regulations in the region. The changes and additions now proposed by the Government are not large-scale, but will improve their adoption, improve the transparent and efficient entire system of innovation activity and create assumptions for better national practice in this area. The reason for the bill's proposal was the need to implement the law, in relation to the financing of the innovative workload by means of the budgets of the Republic of Serbia in accordance with the regulations governing the area of state aid and the application of state aid rules "de minimis", in each of the three ways of financing the innovation activity through budget funds. It is about the financing of recorded technology companies under a specific programme, the financing of unregistered legal, natural persons under the programme of innovation activities established by the Government, as well as the financing of funds made by funds with majority state ownership. The amendments to the law are proposed in the direction of regulating the obligation of Serbia's innovation workers to report annually on the implementation of innovation activity over the past year of delivery within the prescribed deadline. The applicable law does not prescribe that deadline, nor does the mechanisms for sanctioning its failure. The proposed amendments provide the basis for precise deadlines for the submission of the report, and its disrespect shall be sanctioned in an appropriate manner, either by eradicating the legal or natural person from the register of innovation activities, by official duty, or by reporting to the Government on the non-compliance of the province, the unit of local self-government in accordance with the legal obligation of enforcement. By adopting these amendments and supplementing this home will contribute to improving the applicable laws in two directions. The first group shall form the provisions of the proposed law ensuring that the financing of investment health funds is carried out with the application of State aid regulations, whether financed directly by the budget division or by part of the budget as a potential source of income from funds with majority state ownership and another group of provisions of the proposed law in which some non-functional solutions to the applicable law are, as deleted by Article 28(2), by removing the possibility of establishing para-state mechanisms in the process of monitoring the results of projects financed from the budget. By erasing Article 33, the provision opening the space for the vague and unselective allocation of budgetary resources for the purpose of protecting the transport of rights from the field of intellectual property to individual legal and physical persons shall be removed. The addition of Article 45 provides for the composition of the Board of Directors of the Innovation Action Fund, which provides reliable operational capacity for that special legal person established by the applicable law. The composition of the Management Board shall be proposed in accordance with the needs of functioning in specific conditions in which this particular legal person carries out its activity and thus with regard to the number of staff in the Fund, and with respect to the specific species that the Fund performs. By adopting the proposed amendment, the Management Board of the Innovation Labour Fund would continue to constitute three representatives of the founders, and one of the two representatives of the Fund would be from the ranks of employees, while the other would be appointed from the order of independent experts from the innovation work. The last few sentences on the Law on Topography of Semiconductive Products. Our desire is to improve the legislative framework in the area of protection of this intellectual property right by adopting this law. The area is now regulated by the Law on the Protection of Topography of Integrated Cars, which entered into force in December 2009 and prescribes the protection of topography of integrated cars, while the proposed law regulates the protection of topography of semi-conductive products. This change means not only a termological alignment with international regulations, but this law foresees a wider protection of topography, and topography provides protection for all electric cars, including those made of partial components. The regulation of this comprehensive matter of protection is in line with EU directives on the legal protection of topography of semi-manufactured products, as well as the contribution to harmonisation with standards prescribed by the EU and the World Trade Organisation in this area. Under the means of these regulations, our legislation is in line with the Convention on Intellectual Property regarding Integrated Cars, which has been adopted under the auspices of the World Intellectual Property Organisation, which also confirms the willingness to provide full protection and this type of technical innovation. The solutions proposed by this law remove the observed shortcomings of the applicable law. First of all, it introduces the right to appeal, regulates a two-stage procedure against administrative acts of the Institute of Intellectual Property, which will achieve more effective administrative control over the legality of the decisions of the Institute. Penal provisions are also prescribed for a commercial offence, a violation. The provisions governing civil-law protection procedures shall be complemented. The adoption of this regulation is aimed at achieving two basic objectives, primarily to encourage the development of technology, production of domestic topography, semi-conductive products, by providing their creators with exclusive rights and making adequate legal means available to protect these rights from unauthorized use. The second goal is to provide home topography of semi-conductive products with protection that is consistent with international standards, which is also a prerequisite for the transfer of technology and the application of foreign semi-conductive products on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Both the draft objectives of this legal text are to foster the country's technological and economic progress. Semi-conductor technology is of great importance for the development, industrial development of the country, but also for the creation of topography of semi-conductor products requires the investment of significant human, technical and financial resources. As a result, by obtaining exclusive rights that provide and regulate this law, the right holder has the possibility to recover the funds invested in developing the topography of semi-conductive products through commercial use of topography. The right to topography shall be obtained on the day of application and a period of 10 years shall be prescribed for the period of protection. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your attention. I tried to introduce you to a set of laws that are the subject of this united debate. I've spent more time on education laws, but other laws aren't laws that shouldn't deserve your attention. I expect suggestions, suggestions and opinions and amendments. Any quality amendment, which will improve the text of any legislative proposal that today is subject to congregation procedure and your consideration, we are ready to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18063	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18064	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Ministers, State Secretarys, Assistants, Ladies and Gentlemen People's MPs, at the very beginning, the Honorable Minister said that our education is good. Unfortunately, I cannot fully agree with that, because I think that these proposed amendments to the law need to create one perspective for it to actually become good. Secondly, you said - it's not all so black. Well, no, there's something that's dark gray. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that the educational system in our country has been destroyed for years and these are some facts that cannot be challenged. After all, he grew to the point where he himself became a negative at a certain point. There was a complete absence of an open system of education, which had been destroyed years ago, which was devalued, which was either degraded or whatever you wanted and which was actually completely separate from those in whose service it was meant to be and who, I must say, had been, years ago, if not decades, poisoned by the interests of certain groups that functioned in principle – interest above all. Of course, I am pleased that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development has brought the Education Development Strategy in Serbia by 2020, which was also published in the Official Messenger, seems to me in November of last year. I was also present at the public hearing precisely on the subject – The Education Strategy and each of the MPs received literature, so that they could get to know each other in detail with all the programmes and objectives of this strategy to this day. If anything else, for starters, it's nice that this same education strategy is so detailedly written, read, actually, a drinking read and easy to read, but since this is neither the time nor the place to be cynical, I hope that its goals, and I really want to, will come true in our practice. Reading a carefully set of draft laws we're discussing today, first of all, I have to say next. First of all, with the acceptance of certain suggestions and good amendments, and I have submitted several, as always, but also amendments to MPs from certain parliamentary groups, and there are those who will be and how good, MP group DHSS and SPS are ready to accept and to support these laws, first of all, for two basic reasons, seems crucial to me. The first is that there are a lot of newspapers in them, in this debate, in principle, I will primarily deal with these newspapers and deal with, somewhere good solutions in certain parts and regulation of certain issues and certain areas, there are really very precise solutions to specific issues from areas where they are being regulated, and above all for the next two laws where I will pay particular attention and where I will particularly remain. First, it is the Law on secondary education and education and secondly, it is the Law on adult education, with a special note, however, the Minister has already pointed out, that for the first time in the assembly procedure there is one law, which is the Law on adult education, since so far in our country, unlike the countries of our environment, and who has done parallel legal practice could also notice, there already exists and there is such a law already being applied there. Of course, at the very beginning, dear ministers, I have to be a patriot's bar, so to say that you have a respected Dr. Zoran Kostic, who, in our circles, is my fellow citizen, is considered an exceptional expert on someone who is professional and competent for the issue of education at all. I hope, if at least part of his knowledge here is incorporated into such legislative proposals, and with the possibility that he recognizes certain good amendments, if he reads them, then of course it will be a very encouraging fact and that laws will be adopted not only in the form of, of course, the ruling majority can always act on the vote and adoption of any law, but that they will be adopted in the best possible form, and that, most importantly, their application that one desired result and a positive effect in practice. Of course, time, as always, will judge and be the sole judge of law. In all these laws there are things that need much better regulation, which should be specified, which should be further explained or explained. I will go in my own order, which I was reviewing bill proposals when they arrived at the Serbian Renewal Movement parliamentary group and the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia. I've already said that I've been distracted by the law on secondary education and education and the Law on adult education, so I'm going to start with those two laws. As far as the Law on secondary education and education is concerned, it is in line with the education development strategy in Serbia by 2020, which is why I said public listening was also held. In fact, this law, I personally consider, improves teaching and learning. The paper is a programme of protection against violence, that is, abuse and neglect of students. We must note that today, in educational and educational institutions, this has taken the bait and that it is a monster of our modern society, such as the organized programme of prevention and other forms of risky behavior and, of course, it is one newspaper that deserves praise and which is regulated by Article 17 of the bill. This solution is good because besides being involved on one side and students, parents, or guardians, are also involved. This is all in co-operation with the local self-government unit, which thus takes certain steps towards importance and achieves one cohesion between those participants. The paper in this bill certainly is a distance teaching, which is detailed in Article 27 of the Law, for those students who are sick, who are disabled, who come from remote environments, so they are unable to attend school regularly, they are at all prevented from being provided that as other students regularly and normally come to school. In this way, they are actually given the same treatment, as well as regular students who regularly attend classes and have been eradicated so far by one present model of discrimination against such students, who, first of all, by two mentioned grounds, which are disease, primarily disease and disability, have been marginalized and, unfortunately, somewhat as such a category of students in our society, I will say perhaps a harsh expression, have been almost declared. I also have a suggestion here for the Ministry, which is that all of this is really in practice regulated by the regulation, and the sooner the better, in order to prevent any possible kind of abuse, even though it is in principle, even though it is in this provision, which is Article 27, in the last position, and it stands for the regulation to edit such a thing more in detail. And what I also think is good in this bill is that it regulates actually the preparatory course, which is regulated by Article 34 of the Law proposal, and that, first of all, for those students who go to the correctional, or for those students who go to the final exam. I also believe that in a satisfactory way the general professional art graduation is envisaged, as is the deadline of the Education System Foundations Act until 2017, and in order to actually be implemented, and this is also done with the aim of carrying out adequate preparations and this is also something that represents a novelty in such a bill. In that sense, it's commendable. All of this is regulated in some 20 members. To be absolutely specific, it is regulated in 20 members, from Articles 48 to 68. I assume that this paper is due to the alignment with the already adopted and already mentioned education development strategy in Serbia by 2020. As far as the proposal for a law on adult education is concerned, it should be kept in mind, and I will especially commend it, that it is a brand new law, that for the first time today it is before us and that MPs are for the first time able to discuss it. This law has 13 heads. Minister, you mentioned it, but you're not for this one, I'll fill you in -- there are 13 heads and 67 members. He is particularly alert, since it is a new legal proposal. It is very clearly written and I believe that this law on adult education, as well as the first mentioned law that I have explained, is the Law on secondary education and education, seems to me that these laws are best prepared and prepared. The Law on adult education, in addition to the fact that it is first in front of us and that I believe that all MPs should support the adoption of such a law, will regulate an area in our legislation that has not been regulated by any special law so far. It should be noted in particular, since I have conducted a specific comparative legal analysis, that this law already exists with our neighbours. In Montenegro since 2011, such a law has existed in Republika Srpska since 2009, while Croatia has applied it longest. This law has been applied since 2007. This is certainly an area to which special attention should be paid, as stated in the reasons for its adoption. According to the 2002 regulations, 21.9% of the population over the age of 15 did not graduate from primary school, and 23.9% of the 15-year-old population had completed only primary education and should certainly be given so-called. Second chance. Evidence that there is a great interest in continuing schooling is a recently implemented project for functional adult education, which is just named – second chance. The project was funded by the EU. That's some exact data. It included 70 schools and 700 students who for various reasons discontinued their primary schooling, and of course, it is mainly about reasons of justified nature. The final result is that some 10% of the students will enter regular secondary schools, some will acquire basic skills from individual crafts, so they can simply get involved in what they should be involved in, which is to be participants in the labour market, of course, after a successful project. The head of the EU delegation in Serbia, Dežer, found it necessary to actually pass a law in Serbia, or a law on adult education, in order to make this programme part of our country's education system. I'm not going to be long and I'm not going to call on every member right now and especially explain it, because everyone has a law ahead of them and can simply read it. I think that I understand this bill as a single development strategy, in fact, as one of the tasks of the education strategy, because in the first place, it builds up one system of informal education in a comprehensive way and in fact recognises the competences and qualifications of people who have acquired them in some informal programs, which, if they experience their practical application, and I am optimistic and I hope they will experience it, actually means in practical application recruiting a certain percentage of the population into educational flows, which is how it should be. The issue of formal and informal adult education is comprehensively explained and clarified, all in line with those principles of adult education, which are taxed and which are detailed in Article 3 of this proposal. It is also good that certain institutions have been used, such as institutions and such as schools and large-scale funds that have been invested in human resources and equipment in previous years, because in this way it is now ensured that the world of education and the world of work is finally connected, as is everywhere in all civilized countries and societies. Article 16 of this proposal lists all those who are the organizers of adult activities and education, while Article 19, which is directly related to the previously mentioned Article 16, provides for the withdrawal of the approval of those organisers from the mentioned Article 16, unless they are in accordance with the law. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, regardless of what this law represents a newspaper and whatever I have understanding for every new law that is first in the assembly procedure, I think our mild criminal policy, not only in the field of education, but in all segments of society, has cost us many times and I think we should go in the direction of changing, or towards tightening the criminal policy, even if it was the fines provided for in Article 64 of that bill. To that end, I have submitted an amendment, and I will discuss it in more detail when the discussion of the details comes on the agenda. As regards the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, this law was passed in 2009, and the amendments were made in 2011 and today they are re-edited and complemented, with the aim that individual members of that law fully comply with the said Education Strategy and that individual members of this law comply with the members of some other laws. First of all, I mean the Labour Act. I understand some of their re-changes and additions, as I have already mentioned. I'm going to point out one good and one bad solution here. I don't mean as badly as I do because the opposition won't speak out of me regardless of being an opposition MP and I'm not just here for criticism, but also to make some suggestions, because criticism without a proposal means absolutely nothing. When I say bad, I mean the solution that you have to specify and the solutions that you have to do. You must be extremely careful in that precision of the solution. It is good that Article 34, and in relation to Article 144, where the position 2 is added, the teacher, teacher or expert associate ceases working relationship at the end of the school year in which he is 40 years old, or 65 years of life and 15 years of training, and thus makes the solution sound good and acceptable because those professors who have lost part of the norm due to rationalization, are now on some lists of technological surpluses and can thus complement all the class norms. It is true that the Law of Labour when we talk about this question of something different, and I will be completely honest, the way it settles this question. I think that such a solution in this bill achieves certain results and those that can give a very good effect in practice. First, it's that the professor doesn't retire in the middle of the school year, but ends up starting his school year and then retires. The second is that this one solution to the bill contributes to the full integration of the system and excludes the possibility of taking three professors to one place, each of whom has 30% of the class funds. I think this kind of solution comes from such a proposalor's intention, and in that sense, I certainly support it. What deserves criticism, what we could read and listen to in the media, is a member of the 10th and famous education and education agency that is being introduced by this bill. First, I have to say as an ordinary citizen that the very idea of introducing another agency into the sea of existing, in fact, oceans of existing agencies, creates more than revolt and rebellion. Now the establishment of an education and education agency, which is regulated by Article 10 of this proposal of the law, I understand as the need and the Strategy, in fact the alignment with the Education Strategy or the requirement to meet some standards that already exist in developed EU countries. If this agency knows, if the Agency is legally taxed, if its composition is determined, if the Agency is aware of what it will do and what it will do, it may survive in this form. Amendments submitted to this end should be accepted in order to remain in that form. Of course I can't, nor can anyone have any sense of understanding for such an agency if it is introduced, and in the sense of introducing a new legal member, it is actually a consequence of the will of the minister for the establishment of another agency, which in the country of Serbia means hiring his party buddies. To this Article 10, as I have already mentioned, I have submitted an amendment to be precise, actually to be precise, somewhat precise. I don't think any amendments to a member like this can make complete precision, and without whom, if he stays in this form... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Doubled? ... Without whom there remains a mere member of the law that you establish an agency, and things remain to float in the air. As far as the remaining two laws are concerned, these are the draft laws on basic education and education and the draft laws on student and student standards, I see it as some mere harmonisation of primary and secondary education, so I am not going to comment on them today. Since the chairman has already warned me about them, I will speak in the discussion in detail. Since the time has doubled, can I continue?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18065	You can't go on. In accordance with article 97, time has doubled for parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18066	Then I said everything I had. I'll continue to discuss in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18067	The word has a folk emissary Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18068	Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, Mr Minister, Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, on behalf of the SVM Parliament Club, I will present in the next 20 minutes the suggestions and objections of our parliamentary group. Of the proposed five laws, we have submitted a total of 19 amendments mainly to education in the languages of national minorities, and I will try to explain some of the concerns more clearly and to ask questions to Mr. Minister. Let me start with the draft law on the basis of the education and education system. We agree that when educational educational work is achieved in the language of national minorities, every person should provide evidence of the language in which education is done, but in the form of an amendment, we have suggested that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia describes what is specifically understood, what can be taken as evidence of the knowledge of a particular language. Furthermore, the provisions of the National Minority Councils of the National Minorities Act stipulated that education and training institutions can also establish national councils of national minorities, i.e. national councils can set up educational, educational, student and student standards and exercise the rights and obligations of founders, and that in this way, abandoning national councils of national minorities from the order of founders of public schools may have negative implications for the status of educational and educational institutions where the founder has already transferred or has passed on the transfer of founding rights in accordance with the Law of National Councils of National Minorities. Speaking of this subject, i.e. the founding rights, allow me to ask a specific question concerning the process of transferring founding rights from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to national councils that have been going on for some time. It is the National Council of Hungarians, which has been submitted with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for several months now, and then the answer has come that as regards the concrete transfer of founding rights, it is the school board that needs to make a decision, while the RS government as the founder of primary schools just gives approval to that. Everything has been done at one school so far, as the ministry has ordered. It is a primary school from Chantavir where the school board did all it took and a few months ago it was sent to the RS government for approval. Unfortunately, no answer has yet arrived, so please, Mr. Minister, if it can be speeded up somehow, because it wouldn't be bad for all of this to end by September 1st or by the start of the new school year. The next question I'd like to mention is the nostration of a diploma. Since several legislative proposals are mentioned when education is acquired abroad, when teachers or teachers return from the study, the biggest problem is the nostration of diplomas. The experiences of many say that long wait is not unusual, that is, unfortunately, practice, and in the very proposal for a law on secondary education, it says that a citizen of the Republic of Serbia who has acquired a secondary education abroad or a certain class of school has the right to claim recognition of acquired foreign school documents. The question is – when can we really expect to facilitate the recognition of diploma. In fact, we have the practice of giving, through various committees, teaching the scientific council to check every possible exam, teaching plan and compliance with our programmes. If this programme determines that a foreign curricula and a programme departs from our home, with which it is compared, recognition shall be conditioned by passing additional certain examinations, even by making certain papers or by verifying knowledge. We of the SVM parliamentary group believe that the procedure for nostrification of diplomas and nostrification of certain exams should be unique, that it should not happen as so far that certain universities will not recognise the degree, while others may, without talking about what is a real problem, that nostration is extremely difficult, and even impossible, if a particular direction, for example. It doesn't exist in our education system. As for the amendments to the roof law and the retirement mentioned, we believe that an existing solution to the Labour Act should be maintained. So, if a person turns 40 years of insurance or 65 years of life, it wouldn't be forced to wait for the end of the school year, we suggested in the form of an amendment, to delete this proposal, because the already existing Labour Act provides an opportunity, if there is a mutual will, to extend the working relationship to the end of the school year. So there's already this possibility. Also, just one more amendment to the changes and additions to so-called. The roof law. We believe that the adoption of an act governing a network of secondary schools in the territory of the AP Vojvodina should continue to remain in the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina. The next bill of law is the proposal for a law on basic education and education which, you said very nicely in your opening presentation, sets out solutions relating to basic education, which primarily refers to indicators, both on accessibility and on the quality and efficiency of our entire basic education. As we know, in practice there is a problem with the use of acquired knowledge, which unfortunately indicates that our primary schools are not very functional. It is likely clear that for members of national minorities, it is precisely possible for them to attend both primary and secondary schools in their own language. The bill's proposals, both basic and secondary education and education, allow the school to achieve educational and educational work in the language and letter of the national minority or bilingual. We ask the amendment to remove this uncertainty regarding the achievement of educational and probationary work for members of national minorities, i.e. to specify the possibility of achieving in the language of the national minority, which is in line with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which states that members of the national minority have the right to education in their own language in state institutions, as well as in the institutions of autonomous provinces. The formulation of the bill – either one way or another – can lead to the separation of this right of members of national minorities to education in the native language. At the same time, this amendment of ours, I suggest you consider, we leave the possibility of organising bilingual teaching, but only under the conditions provided for by the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, as well as the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. It is very important that when education-experienced work is done in the language of the national minority, the school organises the teaching of the Serbian language to learn the official language of the state. Speaking of this topic, there is also a question of the Serbian language programme as a non-mutual or Serbian language as a language of the social environment, as far as we are aware, representatives of your ministry, the provincial secretariat and the president of the National Council of Hungarians, where a joint meeting was held where a decision was made to establish a working group for education and education that would work, prepared a programme for learning Serbian as an immaterial language. But it's been a few months and there's nothing going on in that field, at least we haven't been notified, so please push that too, or if you know and now the answer to tell us how we stand. Furthermore, I mentioned if education is in the languages of national minorities. And if education is in Serbian, it is necessary that students, members of national minorities, who continue to attend Serbian, have the opportunity to attend their native language as an electoral object with the element of national culture without being allowed, regardless of what would be one electoral object, to still choose two electoral subjects, as well as other members of the majority people, so as not to reduce this possibility, not to be denied. We also have an amendment to the proposal for a law on basic education which specifies the provision to get consent, for a class with a number of students under 15, applies not only for one year, but for the whole first cycle of education. So if a class with a smaller number of students than 15 is approved, that consent shall be valid from first to fourth grade. Of course, we fully support the provision under which the school is obliged to carry out the free activities of students, as a rule in sectional work, but we wonder if it really works today, in practice. The question arises – are teachers and teachers motivated for such work, because, unfortunately, in practice, there is the impression that they may not be. The next draft law is the proposal for a law on secondary education and education and its primary goal is to enable the school to form mature and responsible individuals capable of making decisions on their own professional future. It would be extremely important here to ensure that when determining the number of students and school directions, they really care about the needs of the economy and the possibilities of further education of these students rather than so far, so as not to produce job profiles in vain that we know are very difficult to hire. The proposal suggests that schools under the school programme, in addition to teaching, should also implement the school sport programme. We hope that in the future all schools will have the opportunity to respond to this obligation and have physical halls, because we know that, unfortunately, this is not the situation on the ground right now. In the light of the proposal for a law on secondary education, it is stated that the harmonisation of this bill with the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and the Law establishing the jurisdiction of the AP Vojvodina has been carried out, but this harmonisation is not complete in our opinion. So we suggest, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that you look at our amendments, because most of our amendments are precisely aimed at harmonising with the National Minority Councils Act, they are aimed at that. There is a need for once again to amend the proposal for a law on secondary education and education, because in the curriculum for secondary education it is an extremely important teaching subject of the Maternji language with elements of national culture classified in university classes with a weekly fund of two hours. The problem is that the financing of these university subjects is not in the obligation of your ministry, the Ministry of Education and Practice is, that it is seen that younger students, lower-aged children choose this subject, opt for learning the Mother Language with elements of national culture, while in higher classes, students themselves are more difficult, i.e. very rarely opted to do so, avoid this. Given the status of the university activity, it's almost out of this class in our high schools. For this reason, if it were not a academic, but an electoral subject, if it existed in this way and a funding obligation, both in high school and in primary school, the introduction of an evaluation that would have entered the average of these students, we are sure that this would really contribute to the motivation of students to define and study this subject, the Mother Language with elements of national culture, both in primary and secondary schools, and perhaps they themselves are not aware of how important it is to them throughout their lives. We heard in your statement that the paper in these proposals is a preparatory course that the school should teach for a student who is scheduled to pass a correctional exam, in this case, in the form of a 10% of the total annual number of classes in the course, but, from now on, the school has to organise a preparatory course for all graduates and final exams in the range of at least 5% of the total annual number of classes in these cases. This is important to relieve parents who usually give a lot of money for private classes. What we have heard is that it is expected to be from school 2017/2018. The year of the college entrance exam simply replaces the prom. We'll see how it goes. Next, the fourth draft law in the field of education is the proposal for a law on adult education. Unfortunately, there has yet to be an adequate mechanism for bringing adults back to education, although the educational level of the entire population is extremely low. Therefore, this proposal regulates the acquisition of competence and qualifications necessary for personal and professional development, work and employment. I must express the satisfaction of both the SVM Parliament Club and my personal experience that this proposal, in addition to formal education, recognises both informal education and information learning, which are also important and present in practice. Recognising the competences of qualifications acquired by informal education is indeed a major step in our lives. It is also important to recognise previous learning that is achieved through an assessment of knowledge, skills and skills acquired by education, life experience or work experience and which enables us to have increased competitiveness in the labour market. On this bill, we also have an amendment suggesting that the Pedagogical Institute of Vojvodina be entrusted with a job related to the implementation of the prior learning process in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. The proposal for a law on adult education suggests that units of local self-government can set up advice on adult education for whose work provides financial resources or can form them as part of existing local socio-economic councils or local employment councils. The adoption of this law for the first time systemically regulates this area, which is important, and provides better opportunities for people who want to be further educated or to be recognised, creating a legal framework for improving the educational and qualification structure of the population and thus increasing the employability of the position, as well as professional mobility. We believe that the adoption of this law will be truly successful and significant if we see a concrete and realistic reduction in unemployment. The last draft law in this area is the draft law on student and student standards. After three years of application of this law, it has been found that there are problems in providing student scholarships. We have heard that by following up on the implementation of the competition for the award of student scholarships, the continuity has been observed, which is good, in increasing the number of students who meet the conditions – to clear the year and to achieve an average of 8.5 average, but, of course, given that budgets are very limited, and to encourage precisely these most successful students, this change refers to increasing the requirement of an average score from 8.5 to 9, which is not easy. But I'd like to underline that it's important that students whose average is 8.5 can't apply for a scholarship but they can apply for a loan and they won't have the obligation to repay that loan if they keep that success. Mr. Minister, in addition to these questions I mentioned, I have perhaps one or two short ones: is a new draft law on textbooks and teaching tools expected? Some say yes, some say no. The media wrote about it and I believe it because we on the Committee on Education talked about the problem of funding, or the lack of so-called lack. low volume textbooks that mainly refer to textbooks in the languages of national minorities, are you familiar with this problem and what is happening? Once again, I want to make sure that SVM has 19 amendments to four draft laws. We were the only ones who didn't have a problem with this opportunity at the student and student standard. We believe, and because of your previous successful co-operation with you, you will take a thorough look at these amendments and seriously consider them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18069	Thank you. In accordance with Article 87, I am setting a regular break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18070	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. The word has the People's MP Donka Banovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, fellow MPs, therefore, within this one point, we have eight draft laws united. Six laws are in the field of education, two laws are in the field of science. It is very worrying that the leadership of the Assembly and all those MPs who voted to unite eight laws into one point, that they did so, and that simply, we MPs don't understand the importance of these laws, because one law should have been one point. So the message that we're sending today is that we're not aware of the importance of quality education, but at all levels, there is for the overall progress of society. Of course, Mr. Minister, you are not responsible for how the National Assembly organises its sessions, but you, too, spent an hour in your address to simply convince us what these eight laws are new. So, I'm going to have to talk in 20 minutes about each of these bill proposals, and I can't do that, so I'm going to try from the most important objectives and tasks set before us by the Education Development Strategy in Serbia by 2020, because in fact, all these bill proposals, at least those in the field of education, should be valid to work out exactly these objectives. In November of last year, the Serbian government adopted a very important document called the Education Development Strategy in Serbia by 2020, with a group of prominent experts working on it. Some of the strategy's solutions have been fully incorporated into the bill's proposals, but in order to achieve some goals, I think you have half a solution, and that the objectives of the Strategy with these proposed solutions will be difficult to achieve. For example, I think it is not good that you have fully accepted the Strategy for the establishment of an Education and Education Agency, a new member of the 10th in the so-called roof law, i.e. in the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, where you prescribe the establishment of another new agency, which is due to begin on 1 January 2016. Among other things, it is also prescribed what the agency should do, that it monitors the fulfilment of general principles and objectives, the achievement of strategic development and improvement of the overall education and education system. Then, according to the law, it also states that the agency could conduct research, participate in international research, etc. These are all the responsibilities that the Office already has for estimating the quality of education and education, so I think you should simply rename that office to the agency, because I see you are referring to the Strategy, because the strategy really provides for the establishment of that agency. Let's just say, it's an idea not to form another body that will be involved in education and education, but you should have renamed the Institute, so you would also respect that people wrote in the Strategy, and perhaps you could have influenced that and that kind of solution does not exist in the Strategy at all, and then we wouldn't have this problem. Even so, you said you wouldn't be hiring new people, that you'd be reorganizing within the office, but by 2016, there's plenty of time. We do not see from this bill that this is how the work of the agency will be organised, or that they will be employed there. The most ambitious objective that the Strategy defines is to actually raise the higher education rate by 2020 from the current 6.5% in the general population. Otherwise, there are disputes over this percentage because some people who calculate it differently say there are about 9% or 10% of higher education in Serbia, while some other statistics say 6.5%. So here with caution I say this percentage. In addition, the Strategy says that the levels of higher education in the general population should be raised to 38.5% in people from 30 to 34 years of age until 2020. So, for about 7.5 years from today. This goal is actually a task for the whole system from preschool to higher education. You through these bill proposals, I view them as a whole in terms of achieving this goal, you've worked out some measures, you've talked about them, let's say that they increase coverage, to provide appropriate support, etc. etc. I believe that this law on adult education and all those measures to prevent schoolboys from being dissipated from the education system, that these are also the measures that should lead to this goal. The next thing you suggested through the law, which should be done, is a different distribution of high school students, roughly said, that we should ensure that as many students who graduate from primary school as possible opted for a high school or for a general education and that this relationship that exists today, where 75% of the graduates decide for a high school and only 25% for a high school or general education, that this relationship should be changed and that it should be 50 – 50, i.e. that half of the students are defined as secondary and half for high school and, of course, that the larger the number of high school students are enrolled in college. How do we achieve such an ambitious goal, if we know today that the reform of gymnasium, or general education, has not even begun? The curricula and the programs are out of date, and I don't even know what year they're from. Even in 2010, it was said that the system of proms would completely change, but if we haven't reformed high school, then this as well as the end of that high school education can't be realized. In the law of secondary education, you have members who talk about general graduation, about professional and artistic. However, when this is actually going to happen and all these activities are going to be completed and we are going to get to the point of passing the prom and the higher the enrollment of high school students, it is not clear. In transitional terms, you say the old man's graduation will take place until further notice. Also, when it comes to high school, you know that no new standards have even been made. At least that's the impression we've been following for years what's going on in education. The impression is that this is a strategic turn-off because, in past times, a lot of effort and money has been invested in reforming secondary vocational education. I have data on how much has been spent on a project called "Modernisation of the system of secondary vocational education" that has been implemented since 2009 and is still going on this year. It's been spent a lot on document writing, on consultants, and it seems to me a little bit on cabinet equipment and not enough on teacher training. Now I'd like to say something about making an act on the high school network. Another prerequisite for reforming secondary education in general is that and there you have proposed solutions that will take two years to reach a new law on the network of secondary schools. One year is scheduled to make criteria, and one is intended to be done on the basis of these criteria and the network itself. Critician, you will see that in the amendment, that you have completely deleted the criteria that have been in the bill so far. I suppose you'll define these sublegal acts some other criteria, but I think if you weren't satisfied with the way they were now formulated that you could give some general ones. Two years to the new high school network. I am still talking about this goal of increasing the number of highly educated persons by 2020 to 38%, and then I will also talk about amendments to the Law on student and student standards. You tighten the criteria for obtaining a student scholarship so that instead of the average rating so far, which was required to receive that scholarship, 8.5 rises to nine and plus that all other conditions are met. I don't think it's a good thing you're sharpening that. Through the amendment, we ask that it not be so. In this law, you will abolish the Fund for the Development of Scientific and Artistic Youth. We're talking about that goal as highly educated as possible, and here we are talking about quality. It's in the light of the law that you've had a problem forming a fund, especially since science is in your ministry and that there will be savings here. I have to take your word for it because I can't check it out. I don't think it's a good idea to cancel the grant fund for extremely talented students and students and leave that job to the ministry, because the ministry is already doing a lot of things and it would be good for this segment to be singled out. In doing so, you have some very prescribed procedure involving the ministry, councils, and it has already been about these special tests to check knowledge. You're talking about a highly gifted student or student who won one of the first three seats in a republican or international competition, and then that student, or student, will pass another test. It's not that we don't believe in grades and we don't believe in the results that this student or student achieves. The test will be advised on a proposal from the University Conference, so the council sets out a proposal for a final list, sends to the minister who will appoint the commission. It's a very complicated procedure without need. You should have left the fund. I will refer to some of your solutions to these draft laws with other applicable laws and drafts. In many places in the reasons of the law, you are referring to the drafts of some laws. That's a little unusual. When we rely on the law that exists and is valid, it is fine, but when we call for some solutions in the drafts, not the law that is in the legal order of Serbia, it is at least unusual. In several places you are calling for a draft on textbooks and teaching tools and you are harmonising solutions under this legal law. In an explanation, and I know this because we had a session of the Committee on Education dedicated to the approval or disapproval of textbooks, so your solution is that you have authorized all the advice, i.e. the National Educational Council and the High School and Adult Education Council, so that they no longer recommend the minister to approve a textbook. At the Committee session, we were told that the advice had a problem forming committees because there are not enough independent experts for certain areas. What remains as the council's jurisdiction is to monitor the need for a new textbook to be introduced into an area and to draw up a textbook plan. So that's where you transferred jurisdiction to the Educational and Educational Office because now the Bureau is going to give a recommendation. Again, the question arises, or if the advice had a problem finding independent experts who are not in conflict of interest, to carry out an assessment of the quality of a textbook, how is it now that the Institute will not have the problem, because the problem will remain the same? I don't think it's right that you've thrown your advice out of this whole process of approving or disapproval of textbooks, or recommendations or not making recommendations. What I hope is that, when we talk about the draft textbooks, because we are talking about because you have introduced through bill proposals, that this draft will also have some solution for printing so-called "low-priced textbooks" for primary and secondary school students, and above all for students who are members of national minorities, but not only of them but also of secondary school students. So it's a medical school, a machine school, and those other directions where you print a very small number of textbooks. There is no printer who wants to print those textbooks because they claim to create loss without profit. We have a situation today that children, or disciples of national minorities, end this school year without having a proper textbook throughout the year. I hope you will try to find a solution to this problem in that draft. Then, you aligned some provisions and called for them to be in line with a collective contract signed with labour unions in education. First of all, I think of Article 32, I think it is this Law on the founding of a system of education and education, where the conditions for admission to employment are prescribed to do so by taking over an employee. So, it remains that variant that you can start a working relationship, but to call a competition, etc. However, now that provision that exists in the collective contract is said to be done by taking over people, in a jargon the enlighteners call it "from a list of technological surpluses". Otherwise, this has been a recommendation for school principals to act in this way so far. This was indeed a source of great problems, as employees, as people who had lost their norms, technological surpluses, etc. So this was a mess. I'd like to hear why you're convinced it's going to be different now. It is that this will now have the power of the law, but yet, if there are no proper inspections and penalties, nothing will change much. On the other hand, some young professors who have not worked in schools have not been able to find themselves on the Technological Excess list, they say – you, people, are violating our constitutional right to get a job on equal terms. Indeed, they should wait until there's no one left for any of the items on that tech surplus list, so they can compete at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18072	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Olena Papuga. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18073	I would like to point out at the beginning of my speech that these more important laws, in fact, a set of these more important laws relating to education, I think that my main concern is that they came to the assembly procedure by emergency procedure, which we have had very little time to devote ourselves to them, especially professional services, professors, schools, regardless of which, before these laws were almost similar to those in the procedure, but they were withdrawn and were in public debates. But still, our public, our schools, they didn't have enough time to look at it and make a statement about these new ones, let me say, the proposals of the education law. Education is ours, and it should be the strongest branch we have to focus on because we know there's a lot of problems in it, and it all depends on what kind of generations we're going to be educated and what generations to get out of school. Like my colleague, who comes from the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, I also come from Vojvodina, I belong to the national community, I follow minority education, and I will focus most on the education of national communities, not only in Vojvodina, but in Serbia where learning native languages may not be as traditional as it is in Vojvodina, but those minorities in Serbia who are just beginning to develop learning their native languages should perhaps be helped more than that in Vojvodina. The teaching of the language of national minorities must have a different treatment in the education system in primary schools, and also in secondary and not good to be included in the last group of electoral forms and to have treatment as chorus, theater, third language, that the mother tongue should be assessed without the average, which has been so far. The native languages preserve multilingualism in Serbia and should pay greater attention to them. The treatment they had so far did not improve the learning of native languages, but it distanced itself from learning native languages. In elementary schools, in regular teaching, there are no textbooks in the languages of national minorities. Faculty learning is evaluated, but the rating does not go on average. Minority languages, the languages of the national minorities are in the electoral subjects, not in that group of electoral subjects such as religious and civic, it's an electoral class B, but are still in the lower electoral cases, actually in Group V, where, I say, they are not underestimating, sections, chorus, folklore, sport. I think that identifying the native languages and languages of national communities is not good in such a multinational, multilingual environment, such as Serbia, to place them at the level of such cases. For students of members of national minorities, the language of the national minority, the native language should be organised, with elements of national culture, as a mandatory electoral object, to continue the course and to enter the average. There have been many discussions about this, mainly in the fact that members of the national minorities will be burdened with getting two electoral items. National minorities certainly and now have two electoral subjects, have religious or civic and university language learning. So they already have two electoral items. If parents, since each enrollment, are polled every year, if parents commit themselves to wanting their children to go into the native language, it's not a burden, but I think they should give motive to those children that if they already come to mother tongue lessons, that's an estimate and that assessment goes on average, because I don't see why it's a problem that this assessment really gets on average, there's no excuse. The Institute for Promotion, Education and Education gave its opinion on it and said that minorities attending classes in Serbian can choose two electoral subjects if one of them is the native language with elements of national culture. This would not endanger the student's interest in other electoral items, and he could choose and learn both his native language and other electoral subjects, as well as other students. Otherwise, the law says one thing and the rules the other. The law gives the right to learn the language of national minorities, and rules, i.e. sublaws, restrict this right and put language learning into electoral matters. I wonder how someone can choose a language, since it's predestined by birth to speak that language? All it takes is teaching to encourage this and to incentivize this system learning at school in a way. What I'm saying is that it has really proved in practice that the law provides a basis for education, but the sublegal acts are not in line. Or, even on some terrain, language-gathering teachers, I don't think it's a good termology, because we know who the languages are nurtured in. I don't think they can take care of themselves. Languages are spoken, languages are learned. I think that termology needs to be thrown out of your mouth. There is no longer a term of mother tongue in education laws. The religious science is well processed in this law as well. I see that the entire 32nd article is dedicated to religious teaching. Even an educated religious teaching commission. I am a little disappointed that in this new law, both in the Law on Fundamentals and in the Law on Highs, because languages of national communities are also learned in secondary schools. I was first disappointed in why no member in any law is committed to the languages of national minorities. It is mentioned only in several members, but no member of the law, in either, or in the other, processes education in the languages of national minorities as an individual member. I think by learning native languages, we can boast all over the world, that this is what we can really enter into a world of more developed countries. Even the UN has one day a year dedicated to their native language. It's not the language of national communities or minorities, it's the native language. So the UN even cultivates that term in native language. No country can boast that there is education in Russian, Slovak, Romanian, Hungarian and other languages for 260 years and years. Serbia can therefore be praised and I think it is the only one, not in the region, but even in the world, which can be commended, that there is education in the languages of national communities that lasts more than 260 years. I think that's good, and I want to commend. I ask the Ministry to pay attention to the amendments that we have given, because by improving the language of our national communities, we only open many doors, not only in the world, but also among ourselves, because knowledge of other languages, the language of our neighbours, leads to great tolerance, and I think it may be in some times and is not. I don't want to talk about the amendments. The Social Democrats League of Vojvodina has written over 20 amendments concerning all these laws. Please take a look at them. I think they're creative. We did it with the best of intentions, to fix the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18074	Thank you. In the words of the MP, Nebojsa Zelenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18075	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, members of the Ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, the set of laws we're talking about today is not particularly new, because this is the procedure that has already passed and been in the assembly procedure two years ago and then withdrawn, so these are more or less of the laws that are known and, most importantly, I think we should say that nothing fundamentally changes here. So the bottom line is the same. That's what we heard, and it was confirmed by the members of the ministry when we had this session prepared. The issue now remains of the amendments that have taken place in this law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which have suffered some changes which, I say, will affect the very implementation of education in Serbia. I think it is good that there are strategic documents in the Republic of Serbia and that you as a Ministry and we as a state have all these system laws, but one serious question is being asked – are we better because of this and are our citizens more satisfied and how much better our children are and what really is our education? So, what do we have from having all these roof laws, what do we have strategy and what do we have all these documents that we need to have? How do things work in life? I will now try to explain this on several examples and then perhaps ask these questions to which the minister will answer. I'll start with the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. So we have an unusual phenomenon with us in Serbia, which is that at some point we have opened schools. We've opened them up to citizens, to parents, and that's a good thing, but I don't think we've been prepared for it, and now you have a very interesting situation, which is that when you put a child in the first grade of primary school, you can choose a school, so you can choose a teacher, you can choose a class, you can choose where she sits, whether she sits by the window, the wall, who she sits in the bench with. These elections go very far. When you give people a choice, they're willing to choose a lot. Now, these choices are often related to some unreal parent ambitions, sometimes justified. Parents rightly want to ask themselves. But where's the border, and how does school respond to that? We have at some point schools that are overbooked, which have at some point become very popular. I'm talking about elementary schools, those schools that are going to be public schools after this law is introduced. So it's not private schools. On the other hand, we have schools where it works the same or similar frame, under similar conditions, which are not so popular and which often screams empty. I'm interested in where the government's policy is and how do you overcome such problems? Why am I talking about this? Well, I'm talking about it because we're coming to this position, and I don't know if you've received any amendments to the Union of Teachers of the Republic of Serbia, which relate to the number of students in the departments. Those are, in my opinion, very good quality amendments. You've explained what this is about, the number of students, but I really can't agree that one first-class teacher can handle 30 or more students in the class. I also can't accept that when it's divided into two, it's in class of 15 or 16 students. So I don't see this established relationship where it's going to be equal to working in the department with 29 and in the department with 15 students. I wonder how that goes? I think we from the Parliament Club have submitted 17 amendments together for Serbia. To be honest, since these are the laws that used to be, which have entered the ex-government's screams, we can't have much against it, but our support will depend on how much you're willing to adopt these amendments. So we gave one sliding scale for the number of students, so it's practically on the minister to determine what it is that can be applied to practice. I don't think the Law on Fundamental Education and Education is sufficient to provide additional teaching. Additional teaching exists as an attitude in one member of the law, but not what is happening and how much additional teaching can actually prevent it from acting on the quality of education and education. I'm interested in whether you might be able to expand the possibility of additional teaching being organised, given that there is a fund of classes, there are teachers who can do it? So, is there any possibility that the additional teaching starts to react preventively in our education system, and not only when a student has a problem with education, or in the adoption of knowledge? As part of this basic education and education, I would come up with this key thing which is practically a political issue, and the political question in terms of what our schools are like, are you satisfied with our schools and are the citizens satisfied with our schools? I think our citizens would be very interested to know how the school works and what the success of a school student is in the final exam, or, when it comes to high school, what the success of a graduate is. I don't want anyone to be astigmatized, to understand, to mark someone that is bad, and that someone is better, but to simply start informing citizens so that they can have the right information about how our schools really work, how teachers, or teachers, work, maybe reward someone if it works out well, to make some special regulation that we can arrange it, maybe to judge someone who doesn't do well. So, let's start doing that. I've heard that external evaluation has begun, it's a very good thing, at least what I've been talking to enlighteners in my city and the surrounding area. That's good and everyone's happy. So that gives some results. I'd go back a little bit to the part about... What's so dramatic about the last two years, so now it's such a good success on this last test, on the "Pisa" test? What has changed significantly in our education system, so we had very bad results at the beginning, and now we have how much I understood the minister very good or much better results than they were? I don't think it's a good idea to take success, or to attribute success to yourself for something that maybe we're not all responsible for. We have one system, and I'm sure everyone who lives here knows how it works, we have one school, it's our public school that works on one shift, before or afternoon, and we have one afternoon school. It's that private school or should I say a private education system that's completely left to parents to finance. Now we have opened a big competition in which parents fear competition and this life and the challenges that follow with the preparation of first class students, from different fields, mathematics, native language, even physical education. I don't think our education system can find an answer to that. I think the answer to what we've offered is, therefore, quality school grading, teachers, without wanting to mark anyone, but with a desire to raise our education system. As far as the law on secondary education and education is concerned, what matters to me is a plan for enrolment in high school. The situation is such that secondary schools deliver a new proposal by 31 December on the number of students to the ministry, but how can they know or know what to propose, in what size and in what number? I know they know their potentials, but the question is are we going to continue to educate social cases or are we going to start planning? I think we should start planning and that's the key thing. We've written a few amendments. Why not include socio-economic councils, after all, and the prime minister is president of the socio-economic council of the Republic of Serbia? Why not include the socio-economic advice of local self-government in the planning of enrolment? This is where you have a dialogue between employers and employees where local self-government does some sort of arbitration and arrangement. Decisions are made by consensus. I do not see any obstacle to asking employers what they would like, to ask the other side, or unions as they stand, to measure where we are and only then, based on some binding conclusion of the socio-economic council, that schools deliver their needs for directional or student numbers per department. As for the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System as a System Law, I am not in this material for the session video serious analysis on which we have now made certain changes in the text of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. What kind of analysis led to national educational advice no longer proposing textbooks to the minister? What's changed significantly, so now it's the textbooks' office? Why did you throw out an independent body, take away one jurisdiction, or give one body that is least independent of all? In my opinion, the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, which was first introduced with some amendments, is a very good law and is systematic. Now we have this problem with inter-resor committees that at some point should have affected the delay or consideration of the need to enrol children in schools and that any such enquiries delay or propose measures, individual plans and the like. It's a very good institution. For the first time in a way, inter-resor commissions have imported health systems, social systems, local self - administrations and administrations in order to find the best appropriate plan for a child, or for a future student. It's a great thing, but I haven't seen anywhere that there was a plan in the ministry about how it's going to be financed, how it works in life, how many answers are there, how often are inter-resor commissions, and what are their results? We have one proposal here, and that's that we'll still allow the enrollment to be postponed by a year. We'll have the fact that when you make an exception out of one rule, that exception starts to apply and then the exception becomes a rule, and we'll have a situation where our eight-year-old kids will go back to the first grade of elementary school, and you'll all agree that it's too late anyway. We've made an amendment that should fix it and that, in specific, clear, exceptional cases, there is the possibility of a delay, in all others, no. I'd like to ask you a few more questions that have been referred to me by various organizations in some previous period. For example, a network of training centres, so we have proposed an amendment that should somehow give these training centres their place in this system. The idea is to see what their position is and whether there is any hope for them in the future, given that they are evenly and territorially distributed throughout Serbia, they can count on certain means and tasks they can do. You don't finance them, they're funded by local self-government and they have an international programme based on which they were built, but this funding will end at the end of this year. What are we going to do in 2014? Shall we shut down the training centers? How will we continue to fund them, and is there a obligation for the centres, or for schools, to carry out professional training through the centres? I believe that they also have a very important place in adult education, so we wrote that they should specifically specify training centres as a place in the adult education system. I think they have great capacities for that. All in all, I will return to what is a kind of political message that the MP group Together wants for Serbia, which is that we need these laws, that we will support them on condition that some of the solutions that we have offered are accepted and that what is very important we insist that we start to evaluate, that is, to look for what we as citizens, as parents get a system of education and education, and can this work in schools be measured in some way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18076	The word has a National MP, Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18077	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers, State Secretarys, Assistants, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's very good that today we have a set of laws in the field of education, that we are discussing these laws or that we can say what we think about education. That whole thing will give you one picture. However, a picture of a country is an educational system. The education system is the same as the state. We live in one country where many criteria and criteria have gone to another, where there is no professional honesty in many areas, where there is not much respect in the country. How do we expect this education system to be better than the state? Regardless of these critical tones, I must stress that I have full confidence in our education system. I think he's good, he can be even better, it depends on the people who work in him and how much the state invests in him. It also depends on how we can model it to be better and better quality. As a rare system, the education system cannot endure rapid and sudden changes. It changes gradually, slowly and in the long term. The effects of these changes are only seen later, if we have a clear strategy, a strategy of what we want, where we want and what we want from that system. I mean, do we have an organized school system, an education system? We do. Do we have it quality? We do. Do we have the optimal? I think it can be better and more. Third, does this system give equal chances for everyone? I'm saying he does. This is exactly what the SDPS insists, that the school system gives quality to all students and students of this country, that the school system cannot be an investment that will be seen if it brings profit and whether it is possible to educate those who have money, but the school system must be open to all those who want to, and that quality, knowledge and expertise come to terms. If we make such a school system, I'm telling you that we're going to get into a situation where this country is going to get out of crisis. I've been working in the school system for a long time, I've been a professor. I've gone from high school to college and I know how it goes. I know what it takes to make the system work. What I've experienced alone, experiments in schools are very devastating. I survived on my own two reforms, and I myself carried out two or three reforms on other people's skin. So I know what's going on and how it's going on and what's going on. I've also been through that phase called the Swiss question, etc., which many of you have forgotten, but basically what I have to tell you, the school system doesn't suffer any sudden changes and some new knowledge. It is classical and as classical can only be repaired, finely adjusted to give results. To learn something, you need to sit tight and warm up the chair. There's no magic way to get knowledge into your head. You just have to learn, you have to have criteria. If we have a political stance that we have a great transition in schools, then the teachers will go through a less resistance line, give grades, and then we will have in the class of 30 students 25 excellent students. It's not natural. It's not natural that they're all great, it's not natural that they're all the best. It's natural that we have the right selection, the right evaluation, and that's exactly what that school system that's going to be like for us, which we're going to need to go. I support the Education Strategy by 2020. Let's not bring new strategies. Let's do this and in 2020 do a little analysis of what we did, what we didn't do. Two, there's a lot of talk here. Personally, I think you get into the details a lot. First, let's see who our teachers are. Did we teachers and teachers put themselves in a position to be ashamed of ourselves at times or to be a teacher and a teacher of honor? We all have our teachers, our teachers, our teachers who led us through school, who created us. No scientist created him from himself, but someone directed him, discovered talent in him, gave him knowledge, taught him, worked, and therefore he became a scientist, or someone who could teach. Secondly, if we want a high-quality school system, do we pay attention to teaching schools, to schools that teach teachers and teachers? Do we stimulate these people? I was alone in one situation in 1965 when mathematicians were encouraged to study mathematics. At one of the sessions I spoke – to get out of the crisis, we need to finance mathematics, because if we finance mathematics, we will also have IT engineers, everything this society needs. We're kind of not doing what we need to do. It's a mistake if we think if we give in schools a lot of money, we'll have quality. No, school is made up of teachers and teachers. I must tell you that although I was educated in a time ago, I had teachers who were real Renaissance personalities, I would like to have, even now, who knew and read a lot and were in the right sense of the words intellectuals. I'd talk about a network of schools and how much the school system costs, where it's optimal and what to do. We have many elementary schools in villages, which are small, dwarves. Do we have the courage, and I expect we have to have these courages, say that we're going to close some elementary schools in the villages, put the kids on buses, take them to bigger places? It's nothing new. In the world, it's a perfectly normal thing. When I say this, I know I'm going to say one thing that's a little blasphemous, because everyone will say – if you cut out our elementary school, you can close the village too, for the simple reason there won't be anything to gather about. I ask the question – is it possible for you to enter 15 first - grade students in one village, retain primary school, and can this elementary school survive? Are we rich enough to do all these things? Next, about the number of students in the class, that's a formal question for me. By proper work, proper organization can achieve results with 30 students. If we're going to make departments with 25 students to keep jobs, as a man who's spent a long time in the union, I'd have to, if I wanted to speak populistly, yes, I should keep jobs, but I'm talking about perspective – what tomorrow? Are we going to be able to finance it or not? I'm telling you, with the proper organisation of work, you can achieve good results with 30 students. I ask the question – whether a 45 minute period is used maximum for work or if it is an hour where time is lost to a lot of things, and it comes down to five minutes of lectures. These are the internal qualities that we must have in education, which we must control with adequate services and inspections, directors who will not be the ones who will only force people to work, but who will also be teaching instructors who will follow the work of their professors. You know, the professor doesn't do it right away. Finish college and you can be the best, it takes you at least five years to be a good professor and to work and to be followed, to be graded. That's where I'm expecting it. As far as Article 144 is concerned, - retireing, personally I think it's quite well solved. That means 40 years of insurance. If someone graduated from the University of Pedagogues, he did it at the age of 22, so if he worked 40 years, it's only three years. Someone 65 years old, and at least 15 years of insurance training, he's legally required to retire, except for university professors who continue to work for two more school years. That's why I think this provision should be left behind. We will support her, no matter how much I know my fellow unions will attack me for this. I know there are a lot of unions in education. They're all representative. But I want to say next. I'd like those who run the unions to show me where they work, where they worked, and how much they spent working in the class. What it means to work in class, teach kids, it's the best thing anyone can do. It's really a mining business. That's why I support it, because a real job that's been given a lot, it ends up being spent and wants to retire for a simple reason because it's a very difficult job. Next, we're talking about textbooks, whether they're quality or not. I support the minister's position to approve the textbooks. Recessants can meet. I don't see any need for anyone to do it in particular. Recescents good, quality, who worked with children, they can do that. There have been a lot of speeches about the agencies today in the debate. I personally believe that this agency is too high, that it is a duplication despite all these things that were arguments and which the minister said in his opening statement, and also some colleagues in these discussions. The Institute for Promotion, Education and Education is the right place to control quality, the right place to work without people coming to the office on the party lines, or I don't know on which other lines, but the best quality people who showed up in the work, who were still working and educated to be able to hand it over. One thing that was a little unusual to me – proving the knowledge of Serbian language and an explanation of why it must be done. Someone who's graduated from law school in his native language, I assume he needs to know his native language. If he studied in any former Yugoslav republic, he knows that language, spoken Ekva, Ichak, etc. I worked in BiH for a long time, I spoke Ekvaski there, and no one was bothered by it, I speak Ekvaski here, and no one bothers. We should get an answer to that question. What I find disastrous and what we have to pay attention to, which is a picture of Serbia – 140 thousand children living below the poverty line and having one meal a day, 5% of children don't enroll in primary school, 8% of children don't finish primary school, a thousand students less every year. Does anyone run politics in this country, and we are the most responsible for politics in this country, think about it? How do you get past this stuff? How do you make a quality here and give these kids equal chances to prove by learning and working, unlike those who live in a circle of two or with me in Novi Sad, where they have all the conditions? Education in Serbia has never been rich. I'm telling you that good results have been achieved even in the absence, only by the question of evaluation criteria, the quality of teachers, textbooks and we've had good results. I would point out one more thing, and it is often a potentiation of the success of our students in competitions in mathematics, physics, natural sciences, etc. That's good. However, that is not necessary. It's good for the popularization of science, to stimulate someone to do more of that area. We need those who learn valuablely, who work, who will have knowledge that we can use, not just force mathematical high school, because, you know, there's a small percentage of children who get special schooling and show results. We're talking about ranking schools. I'm absolutely up for schools to be ranked, from elementary, high school, to be a competition. I know that it is sometimes difficult, for the simple reason that much depends on what kind of children you have, on what social conditions, etc., to have a quality in learning. However, it must be a stimulant, to know exactly who graduated from the first Belgrade high school, who is the Second, who is the 10th, or someone else who has had quality for many years and holds to that quality. That's why I think we have to keep doing this. As far as high school is concerned, I think that's what's meant to be said. That's one thing. Second of all, I've been in favour of taking the proms myself, but it doesn't fit the exams, and we've had to take the proms and take the exams ourselves, and now we've got to maybe it's neither of them. The question is the quality of knowledge, whether we are able to level quality in each part of Serbia, and in Belgrade, but also in Babusnica, that everyone has the same quality of knowledge and that graduation is under strict control of the Ministry of Education, because it will be a place for us all to have an equal chance for further. There's been a lot of talk about adult education. I think it's a good thing there's a special law and something that's here and informal forms of education. Often to be modern, to say that we are modern, we end what was good. We've had some good working universities before, but we've abolished them. I was in Sweden two years ago, watching these same working universities, where they say they saw them and they copied them from us both and they're doing very well today. It's that second chance, it's overqualified, it's qualified, and that's besides what the state does in those 10-15 centers, the unions do. So two such working universities are held by trade unions, the state controls them and they have that quality to be given around adult education. Another dreary picture, as much as we're talking about Serbia that needs to be better, better quality, which is that 21.9% has not completed primary school for over 15 years, and 23.9% has completed primary school. Is there anything more to say if you have 50% of the people at primary education level? Where do we see Serbia in the 21st century? It takes a lot of work, a lot of work, a lot of big topics and going back to these topics that we need. About the law on student and student standards, I'd say something. I used to say it's impossible for a class of 30 students to make 25 great. It is impossible for you since 2002 to have 1,174 students with an average of 8.5 and in 2012 you have 14 000 and something. That means 12 times more. I will immediately tell you that it was a matter of political decision to introduce the Bologna Process, but a caricated Bologna Process, where there were words – there must be a high passivity. I was myself in a situation where I had to have a 75-80-percent pass. Where do you have that? When politics changed, and when it was said that there couldn't be a lot of them, I found myself in a situation where 30% of the students passed my exam on time, had real quality, and I just sharpened the criteria a little bit. So that's what's important and important right now. In the end, I'll say next. The SDPS Parliament Club will support these education laws. We've given some amendments that we think will improve some text. I hope it's adopted. One more thing. We're saying that education is a developmental opportunity and that is a phrase. I claim that education must be invested. That investment will give you the fastest results. We give 10,000 euros for one job, and we find it hard to separate it for education. I suggest we invest, sharpen the criteria, look for quality and long-term, without sudden changes, we have a good education system that will improve. There is no good education system unless the country's state of affairs is changed, if a turnaround is made, to respect principles, criteria, knowledge, quality, because then there will be a school system, an education system very good system. I've been trying all this time to talk for 20 minutes, and in these five seconds, I'm gonna be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18078	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18079	I would like to begin by commending all these proposed laws and proposals for amending the law, and to express my satisfaction that these laws are on the agenda of today's session. It is also to praise the overall work of the Ministry of Education and Science in the field of legislation, especially in this domain, the domain of detailed regulation of legal regulations and the separation of individual laws for each segment of education, with the old amended Law on the Fundamentals of Education and Education, only the roof law, while each individual segment will be governed by its legal act. After the Law on Preschool Education and Education, which has been in application for several years and the Law on Higher Education, which has been more detailed for many years on issues related to higher education in Serbia, today we are discussing basic education, secondary education and, in particular, I am pleased with, adult education. The passing of these laws is necessary. They need our education system. I don't see any reason for anyone in this room to vote against, whether it belongs to the opposition or to the position. The development and improvement of education should be one of our strategic goals for the future, and in this domain we must have a national consensus, i.e. that we all work together and constructively contribute to the improvement of this area. To begin with, I will personally and personally vote on these proposed laws. However, on this occasion, I will only look at individual members and the provisions of these laws, not only to criticise, but to try to point out possible improvements to these laws. The Law on Fundamental Education and Education in Article 4 states – each person has the right to free and quality basic education and education in public school. A public school student can use books, school materials, transportation, nutrition, as well as accommodation when necessary, in accordance with the law. So, education is free of charge, of course, but I don't think it's the clearest free book situation, i.e. This situation has been given too much in general. Today we are witnessing that books and nutrition are not free and I do not understand how the government sees this problem in the future, i.e. from which will be provided textbooks and nutrition for all students. If this is expected from local self-government, following the freshest changes to tax laws, I doubt that local self-government, especially those poor in southern Serbia, will be able to finance these needs. In the same law, Articles 21 and 22 define the objectives and outcomes of primary education. These goals and outcomes will finally define exactly what knowledge our children will complete basic education with. This is a kind of task for our teachers and teachers who should be their idea of a guide in everyday working with children. In the same law, Article 30 says – educational educational work is organised in groups and, if necessary, individually and 30 students are provided for in the department. Although I am convinced that all of these provisions came from many experiences of educational experts, I must express my intimate disagreement with the maximum number of students per class, as well as the introduction of inclusion in our schools. First of all, 30 students are too many and perhaps a more appropriate figure would be 25. That it will be more expensive, certainly clear, we will have to hire more teachers and teachers, but if our goal is to improve education and education and invest in children and their future, then we should pay. So we suggest that the Ministry of Education and Science reconsider these figures. At first, the minister explained why it goes at 30, not 25, but in some percentage account, he said he had a large number of classes with 15 students. Then those who have 30 students and those who have 15 students come into an unequal position, and they are actually paid the same. Also, when it comes to the inclusion of children with developmental disturbances in regular schooling, I'm quite skeptical of the success of the entire venture. In our education system, we've been working for over a decade to introduce an inclusive approach. Teachers and teachers attended a bunch of seminars on the subject. We're trying in every way possible to get children who have damaged development by force into classes of regular teaching. I'm not sure we've got any positive results so far. What's more, I'm sorry for looking at it on the sidelines and seeing it differently, I have the impression that we've done more damage than good so far, both for children with developmental disorders that are more difficult to manage and fit in with regular classes, and for children who can regularly follow classes. I've talked to a lot of parents who have children with developmental disorders, not optimistic about the success of the inclusion. I also talked to some of our education experts who went abroad and visited countries with a better and improved education system. None of them convinced me that he believed in the success of implementing inclusive education. Even on the board of education, we had several members who visited some English schools and claimed that there they set out special teachers, i.e. teachers or persons for education and children who are part of these regular schools. If we want to improve the education of children with developmental disorders, it is better to allocate additional resources and pay for additional teachers, teachers and others who are qualified to work with them, and thus to provide them with better education. It is commendable that the Law on Fundamental Education and Education introduces classes at home and at a distance to Article 27. A parent, or guardian, has the right to organise his child’s primary school education and education at home, and that part is regulated in several parts. I would like to point out that the school keeps records of the education and education of students at home and at a distance and a special attitude that says – closer conditions for the achievement and manner of insurance, quality and evaluation of education at home and remote teaching are prescribed by the minister. This is justified, from an economic and geographical point of view, i.e. in the light of the reduction in travel and education costs, and from the point of view of using available new technologies in the 21st century. Computer and Internet allow more newspapers to be introduced in this area by day, and I think more attention should be paid to this, perhaps even more elaborately, because in the future this can become one of the popular ways of schooling. In Article 58. The law on basic education and education, among other things, regulates the duration of teaching hours for 45 minutes. Don't mind me, but this minute period is a relic of the past and the matter of our habit. The 45-minute period is too short and insufficient for a quality approach. The beginning of time, the implementation of the unit methodology, at the time of the rule, of the end of the business. This short school class has been overcome in Europe's most advanced school systems and has been expelled from use. Even in some European countries, the hour extends to 60 to 75 minutes. We will all agree that we want our children to be more and more educated and have better functional knowledge at the end of primary school. We will all agree that we want our children to illuminate their cheeks on the next PISA tests, and move as a state another step up in ranking the quality of education system. I remember well, if you remember, in these competitions a few years ago, we were in the lower part. Thanks to some of the measures we've taken, we're almost somewhere at the top, as far as these tests are concerned. We also witness that experts and consultants from the field of education from the current most developed and most qualitative education systems in Europe from Finland, Switzerland, Slovenia are constantly present in our country. So let's take some of those best education systems that give the best results on the PISA test. Each year, a delegation from the Ministry of Education visits Finland as the most advanced country in terms of the education system. Ask members of these delegations what they saw there and how long school classes in that country are going on. So let's think about a possible change in the length of school classes, if not now in this law, then in some upcoming amendments to the law. By passing education laws for the first time, we will systematically edit this area and provide opportunities for others who wish to be further educated or to be recognised. The bill creates a legal framework for improving the education and qualifications of the population, thus increasing the employment of the population. Also, this improves the professional mobility of a realistically active population. The educational structure of the population of the Republic of Serbia is unfavourable. According to the latest census, over 50% of the population over the age of 50 did not finish primary school, and nearly 24% of the 15-year-old population had completed only primary education. These are for one country at the beginning of the 21st century a devastating fact. The aim of this law is to regulate the specificity of the performance of adult education and to regulate learning throughout life, exploit existing institutions, define and formal and informal adult education, exploit the funds invested in the education system in previous years, connect the world of education and the world of work. Also, by regulating adult education, we will achieve a reduction in the proportion of illiteracy and professional incompetence of the population. The proposal for this law also regulates formal and informal education, but also informative learning of adults, in particular Article 2, which is certainly good. In order to monitor and achieve adult education more effectively, local self-government units can set up advice on adult education, for which they provide financial resources or can form them as part of existing local-social economic councils, i.e. local employment councils. More units of local self-government can set up advice to monitor adult education, of importance for adult education. The council consists of representatives of the local self-government unit, organisations responsible for employment in local self-government, employers, trade unions and associations. The existence of such advice can be very useful for local communities, especially in interaction with local socio-economic councils and local employment councils. As we know, at all local levels, there are socio-economic advices and employment advices, so that these tips that are formed in this interaction could give excellent results on adult education and education, and later on, employment. Finally, I am once again surprised that when editing the adult education system, there was no idea, more specifically that no more successful educational system was copied and that it was not envisaged to form a national institution for adult education or, otherwise, the National Andragogical Institute. Such institutions exist in our environment in more advanced education systems, for example in Slovenia, and they edit all kinds of formal and informal adult education, which in the future, when everyone comes to lifelong learning and training, will be very important for our education system. So, I suggest that in the future, when the adult education system is still in place, one of these institutions is being considered. Finally, I call on all MPs, both the positions and the opposition, to support these legal solutions and to try to rise above the framework of party camps and trenches, and that education, as one of the most important branches for our country's future, is once and for all a matter of national consensus. The PUPS parliamentary group, following this debate and debate in particular, and the possible improvement of the law through amendments, and we have also submitted three amendments, will support these laws in the day of voting and will vote for the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18080	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Miljenko Derret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18081	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I cannot share my satisfaction with the fact that we are at the same time discussing eight laws, regardless of the time for this debate being extended, because it is impossible to discuss eight laws at the same time. That is why we will make some concrete proposals, which we have presented and through the amendments that we have written, when the debate is under amendments. So in this first address, I will first of all deal with what I think is common to all of these laws, which is that one huge effort has been made to preserve the status quo. I understand why that is. Because you through these laws should actually satisfy two conflicted sides. On the one hand, they are employed in education, which needs to be provided with salaries and whose peace needs to be provided, and on the other hand are parents and students who want different, better, more efficient, more modern education. Of course, it is impossible to ensure this peace without at least one side feeling hit and anything moving in any direction. The budget you have and budget schedule illustrates it best. The foreign employees meet 95% of the budget, and 5% of you actually have the opportunity to invest in the other side, which is actually the development of education. I must say, when I read these eight laws, I reminded Borislav Mihajlovic Miha, who once said, "There is a good and new one here. However, anything that is good is not new, and everything that is new is not good. "It also seems to me to be true of the laws you have given us, because there is no real change in what you offer. It's your colleague, very open and honest, which I greatly appreciate yesterday and said, that there are no fundamental changes to these laws, that it is primarily, as he said, about makeup. That makeup is better somewhere, worse somewhere, but it certainly doesn't bring the kind of change that we expect and that is necessary for other reforms in society that have to happen. Because this situation today is the result, among other things, of the current state of education. It's a reflection of the same thing. If education doesn't change, there's no reform. It's a parallel process, at the same time, and sometimes it's much better that education reform looks forward, feels and knows what brings the time ahead and adapts to that time. In fact, when you look at these laws, they are, of course, talking about topics that are in their title, but in some ways they also talk about how the ministry works and point to many inconsistencies in the approach to lawmaking. I'd say that, say, there's an inadmissible number of lecturing pads, not to say grammatical errors, which the Ministry of Education shouldn't be coming. Secondly, you have an incredible number of changes to the law, above all the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, where I am very interested in how the change of the word "expert" to "competent face" contributes to the quality of education? It's one of the changes this law makes. In Article 4. The law on the basis of the education and education system deletes "respecting differences". So, in Article 4 of point 15, the word "respect of differences" is deleted and the term "tolerance" ends with the term "tolerance" where the word "tolerance" is used in the context of respect for equality. Equality and equality cannot be tolerated, it must be respected because it is part of the Constitution and part of the law. The same wording "respecting differences" remains in the Law on secondary education in Article 2(7). Now I'm asking if the law on secondary education is in conflict with the basics of education and education systems, if in one law one formulation is deleted, and the other one remains? I am sorry that the concept of informal and informative education appears only in the Law on adult education, and not in other laws where this type of education supplement would certainly produce very good results. For example, in the Law on Fundamental Education, Article 49 is called a library, and there is no library in the Law on Central Education. I'm guessing they're in schools, but this is about the fact that the laws of the ministry itself don't harmonize. None of the laws actually mention the use of IT equipment. Access to IT equipment and use of IT equipment is not mentioned but library is mentioned. With all due respect to books and libraries and reading skills, of course, that's what we should have, but today is the time of IT technology and we're drilling into our breasts that it's some kind of developmental opportunity, and in this development system it's not mentioned at all. That inconsistency, if I may say, is also seen in some formal matters. In the Law on Fundamental Education, the outcomes and objectives have 29 points. In total, there are seven of them in the Law on Middle Education, and they are connected in one whole, so there are no separate objectives and outcomes. So, these inconsistencies, in my opinion, talk about that there is no one vision, one language, one way of thinking that is carried out through the entire system of education, and our intention is, at least so said, in the education strategy that was adopted, that we have one system that will start consistently from pre-school institutions to post-doctoral studies. If I were to talk about some specific issues that I think are good that they're open, now I'm surprised because I'm probably going to commend something, which is that it's a good thing that the open question is that the students are being sprayed. That is one serious problem. What's not to mention here is the sad fact that it's the dregsiest among the Roma, I have some information that only 20% of the Roma finish their schooling, basic schooling. So that's something to pay special attention to. What is also good is that great attention is paid to people with developmental disorders and disability. It is an inclusion, it is one problem that is not only a problem of education, but a problem of the culture of this people and of this society. What is certainly not balanced enough, that this has become the laws of maltene exclusively of inclusion, and we know that the inclusion is regulated through some other regulations that have been passed. What's also good at the whole thing is that this also introduces the concept of an individual educational plan that adapts education plans and programmes to individual needs of students. With these now legal solutions, this applies exclusively to persons with disabilities and to schemes to reduce rash. I think it would be very good if you at least announced that one far-reaching goal of our education system is to maximum individualize the process of education because it is something that is a world trend. So, in accepting the diversity between students and adapting their, their programs, their special needs, when I say special, I mean not only people who have disabilities but also those who have special talents. It is also very good that it is mentioned that for the first time in that kind of privileged, if I may say, included, and particularly talented students who require different attention than the usual system that is an early bird, if I may say, completely out of time and space, mostly brings. Some concrete solutions have been mentioned here, mentioning a famous agency that should be formed and, of course, by its own name brings the whole concept under suspicion. The agencies are an ugly word, an experience teaches us that they are an ugly word in Serbia. What's the problem with this agency you're talking about is a description of the areas she needs to deal with. The Agency should not deal with this, assessing the implementation of the Strategy, etc. independent institutions need to be dealt with. As we know in the surrounding countries, there are education agencies, and they exist because they are channels through which EU funding to support education passes through these agencies and then they are allocated to those who write projects for these areas of education, and these are not always schools, but are also NGOs and institutes, private schools and private universities. So, one broad market, let me put it this way, the projects are open and the agencies are actually there to be intermediaries between those who finance it and those who make it. Of course, the ministry's role is important, but it can't be something that's part of the ministry, and it's kind of supposed to compete. It also mentions the issue of increasing the middle grade to secure a scholarship in the Law on Student Standard and student Standard. I have to say that I'm only interested in one thing in the whole thing, how do you plan on having a student who, say, had 8.5 so he took out a loan, so for whatever reason, that average of his fell, how and where will he repay that debt that he created in view of the employment situation? How? We'll have to say that to a generation of debtors. I know that in some other education systems students are in charge so they enter their working age and go to their first job with a big debt to pay back. I'm sorry, what's the chance of someone finishing college today, not saying which, what percent of college graduates are left unemployed, how and where are they going to repay those loans? So, when the law is written, I think it must be taken into account the consequences, possibly the consequences of such decisions. When we talk about employment, there is one discrimination against young people, is this part of the law that says that competition can only be called if the takeover is not made. So, priority is to hire those you take over from another public institution, i.e. from another school, and those who have to compete for the first time have no chance, i.e. They have to wait for those who've lost their class fund to be satisfied. This kind of preservation of social peace and preservation of a frozen education system in which those who are in school must, of course with the pressure of the union, of course with the threat of strike, of course with the blackmail that all this is going through, the things parents and students suffer, you are trying to reconcile it with the fact that you will deploy this surplus of people and those extra personnel into the account of young people who are supposed to come and bring something new into schools. So it's not just discrimination of young people, it's discrimination of new knowledge, it's discrimination of modernity, it's discrimination of every kind of change. Of course, it's always interesting when you have eight laws like this that everything and everything in those laws doesn't exist. There is no mention of the national qualifications framework. What about the national qualification framework? How can it be discussed in general about secondary education, about professions, about this, about what, and who doesn't know what these professions are called and who have a general chance of being recognized in this society. Here, not by chance, I think that the Higher Education Act has been skipped as a very important, important link in this chain because it is very problematic and difficult to bring, to change where it is necessary to change. You know, I think so personally, that changes in the current Higher Education Act are crucial to change and all other levels of education, both pre-school and secondary, because the teaching staff for all that needs to be innovated comes from uninnovated universities. There is no mention of these laws of information literacy in the right way. She's not present enough. You can think that's enough, I think it's not enough, so I'm in opposition to you. I don't think there's enough to talk about the obligation to perfect the teaching staff. As we know, the perfecting of the teaching frame is being passed on to local communities that are squirming at the moment to survive. To them, perfecting the teaching frame is the last hole in the play, because they often see it as justified not as an investment, but as a cost. Why would the local administration out there, not to mention the municipalities now, invest in some teacher to better educate young people who will then go from there to Belgrade, or where there is work at this point? In that sense, their relationship to this as a cost is understandable, but we must create a climate in society that investment in education is not a cost, but an investment and it is a long-term investment. That, in my opinion, is not enough in these laws. What about this year's PISA tests? It will be, won't it be? Is there money, is there no money? Are we going to measure ourselves, or aren't we going to measure ourselves? There is, of course, no word, as there is actually no proposal under these laws that looks at the long term except, for example, as it is said - the agency will function in two years. But when it comes to the number of students, then it's put into a very convenient form that it can't get to 30, and then it's going to shrink over time. But, let's say, I would expect you to say as the Ministry of Education – our long-term goal is mandatory secondary education. It is not feasible now, but it can be done from 2014, 2015, 2016, not to bid the year, but to produce one projection of the species in which it would be seen that there is one vision not only of education, but of a vision of education that changes society. I'll be right back. What bothers me in all these laws is the status quo that was heard, this seemingly social peace, this apparent way of education that many respected speakers here talk about teaching as a form of education. There's no time in 45 minutes to apologize for everything that needs to be apologized. What are we talking about? The attention of a young man today is measured between seven and ten minutes. You have to change something after seven and ten minutes to keep it, or her, attention, let alone lectures that last more than 45 minutes. Well, we here in the congregation, so we sleep when we listen to some speakers who talk for more than 45 minutes, let alone kids at school. So I'd like to talk seriously about individual solutions and laws when it's time for amendments, because I think it's the only focused discussion that can be conducted. This is all I've just said now is just one general picture, a decry, a description, of the LDP's position on education policy being conducted in Serbia at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18082	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Zlata Đeric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18083	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Mr. Minister, the Honorable Public of Serbia. Education and education are uncertain and uncertain. Success is very uncertain, it requires a lot of effort and concern, but failure is painful and very often incorrigible. I am pleased that Mr. Minister has managed to make sure that the set of laws he has proposed today gets twice the time to discuss them, so that the public of Serbia sees how important and how much attention and concern is being given just now enlightened. I am indeed rooting for him to vote in the budget for significantly higher funds, at least when it comes to education and its ministry, because education requires that it be financially supported at any time to be equally successful. I am certainly looking at these laws in the light of the national education strategy and they have come out of it and, however modest and minor they represent reform in education, above all, because they bring advanced attitudes and views of the current practice in education and it is clearly recognised. Although I believe that individual solutions in these laws will very quickly extort changes and additions again, but education and education are living processes. They live in society, follow its changes, and nothing unusual is always being brought into line with legal solutions. I'm going to pay attention to three of the laws that I've been offered, which I've been particularly interested in, are particularly interesting and important to me, and they're going along with each other anyway. This is a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the founding of the system of education and education, the Proposal for a law on basic education and education and the Proposal for a law on secondary education and education. The other legal solutions will be spoken of by my colleagues. I must say that I support the Ministry's brave step to bring legal solutions into line, solve and fight ballastes that follow education in modern Serbia, as they follow life itself, among other things. Education is subject to, I said, constant change. As Edmondo de Amicis said - education is the constant movement of humanity. Today's school has to modernise its programs, it has to constantly change them, perfect them, follow the steps and needs and appear in life. That's why we support most of the solutions, though not all of them, and we'll talk about it. We are in our Parliament club, analysing the proposed laws, looking at how the Ministry has looked at the approach to education of educational staff and we have seen that there is a step-up, because the modern education market, because knowledge is one of the most expensive goods that humanity knows, is looking for high and very wide-based educational staff who will perfect their entire lives consciously and to be engaged in an invitation that is a mission. I particularly welcome the Ministry's relationship to the gyms. For the first time, I see that the Ministry of Legal Solution addresses and deals with teaching exercises that serve to train educational staff in that crafty sense, because, as a science method, it is the most important science in education. You know how people say - it's not a problem knowing, it's a problem to give. To teach someone, to convey their knowledge and thus multiply it, capitalize it, it's a special skill and banalizing that explanation, it's like becoming a pie maker by learning recipes in your head, and you've never involved anything. Appreciateing the ministry's new view of this issue, which is one of the most important in the education of the educational staff itself, I said, and thinking that for the first time there has been enough hearing and understanding and willingness to co-operate to make this educational work even more quality, I have taken the liberty of proposing to the minister, and I will deliver it to him at the end of my presentation and to propose a law on teaching exercises, or a bill on teaching exercises, which could be a small step in solving this great problem in education. Coming from a city that has an impressive history of teacher education in this part of Europe, from Somboro, where nearly two and a half centuries ago, a teaching norm that grew up today in the University of Pedagogue, and since I was a student of the famous Somborian Teacher School, I recognize the problem and in collaboration with my colleagues, I have dared to make this proposal, so I ask you to pay particular attention to it and I think that we will be excellent associates, as we have worked very well in the previous term on issues of laws dealing with education and education. I consider the solutions offered to be made possible, but not precisely enough to introduce a larger order in the placement of textbooks. The textbooks should be favored based on quality, not based on rebates. The Ministry still has to do some of its views, because the textbooks serve to expand the knowledge best, and they cannot expand the bags, expand the veins, and spark the students' spine. I recognized a good solution in article 7 of the amendment to the System Law. Responsibility in the offer of textbooks is a very important part of the teaching process. The importance of textbooks and its accuracy and compliance with all the requirements of the program is what we expect the Ministry to monitor and implement and certainly what we now have on the market, meaning, textbooks with material errors, irrevocably withdraw from the classroom. Therefore, this must not happen, regardless of the consequences of the publisher, and should bear serious consequences. In particular, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Education and Education System, but also the other two draft laws deal with acute modern problems such as, for example, the depletion of education systems, particularly marginalised groups. Finding a solution to overcome this problem, overcoming this problem, and its more permanent solution also brings solutions to many other problems in society. So I support the attempt to solve this problem and I hope that we will also have a broad front here to improve not only our education, but our society at all. Legal solutions require that education, as well as society, be dealt with in general by addressing the issue of violence, which is all present and similar, socially unacceptable forms of behavior. We also support, which both laws, both in primary and secondary education, require the active participation of the school, as well as all participants in the process of education and education, in identifying and preventing this phenomenon that appears in a modern but frustrated society. I must also say that we agree with the solutions that favour sport as a very important content, which raises the principles of healthy life and very noble goals. Mass participation in sports is a good basis for building a healthy, independent, self-aware personality that society can rely on in its future. Environmental protection and awareness of state development are also a novelty and a need for modern society. Never like now. It takes a significant place in modern education. It's something we support, because we must be aware of everyone, and we must raise it in our young generations, that we did not inherit this planet from our ancestors, we borrowed it from our grandchildren. Students' responsibilities are more clearly and seriously defined, and this also contributes to the reputation and authority of the school, which has pretty much devastated the last few decades. The inclusion, which is a lot of work done by these laws, which is the paper in the follow-up, is more legally resolved with clear tasks of all participants, but I believe that there will be a need to bring here more changes later, because the very process of inclusion, for which the existing educational system must be further educated and professionally improved, is indeed something that society puts ahead of great challenges and new responsibilities. For such steps, the Ministry must have the support of all institutions and social communities. It's news and teaching at a distance. With a dose of skepticism, I have to say it can bring good results, but I think we'll also have practice here to ask for some changes and supplements. The procedure for granting and withdrawing a licence is clearly envisaged. I find him very transparent. Legal solutions require more responsibility for personal and collectives. Thus, this should contribute to the development and care of general social responsibilities and responsibilities we never have enough. It's something you should be working on all the time. It certainly comes from a rich society. We are opposed to what we are going to oppose to the end, I think that's what the previous speaker said, and here we are clear, the introduction of an education and education agency. We believe that the Ministry of Education has enough institutions to carry out the tasks assigned here and prescribed to the agency. It will unnecessarily burden such a modest budget of the ministry, and we cannot see that it can bring more serious results, especially when we know that there is a Office for Quality Assessment in Education, so that work is not very visible either. The effects of the Agency's work do not believe that they can be seen at all in this system of education, so that's something we don't support in this solution. In the proposal for a law on basic education, we see really many positive steps, and I think we will only argue in the discussion in particular about the assessment of the rule. There we had had many conflicting opinions in the previous term. That's when we made a compromise, so that the grades from primary school rule could return to average in seventh and eighth grade. Afterwards, it was extorted that he had to return in the sixth. I now propose an amendment, we will discuss it, it will be for and against, I speak as someone who comes from practice and knows that age, absolutely with the support of all colleagues, that you should return to the fifth grade. We find this attitude to eighth grade problematic and the completion of eighth grade compared to earlier students. I'm talking about students where problems can arise, and then if some apriors can finish eighth grade regardless, they don't threaten to repeat it. It's usually students who have behavioral problems or disciplinary problems, so I'm asking you to think about these suggestions that we've made in the amendments. We will try to make an amendment to the number of students in the department and, by accepting everything that the minister has made very clear, very explicit in his presentation, not challenging the figures he has presented, not speaking at all about keeping jobs, I am talking about the number of students in the 25 optimal department, even it is very difficult to do quality work, especially now that we have the inclusion, and here we have asked that the number, where one student with the inclusion when introduced into the class, is replaced by two and increased by a number. Inclusion is one experience... People who don't work in the department didn't have that experience in living hours, so to speak, they don't know, and every inclusive student is the world to himself, and he could really hire only one teacher, but the circumstances are like that, and we have to deal with each other in the most human and professional way in these circumstances. I say, I respect all the efforts of the Ministry and all the resources it has, but that's something we're going to argue about in particular. So there's a lot of things that have been given in these legal solutions in a more efficient way than it's ever been before. The proposal for a law on secondary education has also simplified but also concreteized solutions that are important in the realization of secondary education. Distance class is a newspaper. I've already talked about her. We're just going to look at her effects. What is specified is the possibility of changing the selected professional profile during schooling. That's something that's positive. I see he's strengthening his responsibilities. That's what I was talking about. It's also something that should restore a significant part of the school's authority and education in general, which is very important for the healthy life of the whole society. We believe that the proposals offered by the law come to a better quality, fairer and more accessible education and could be said that we have tried these legal solutions to reach a step closer to that Finnish principle – an equal chance for everyone. Of course, they're a rich society. Finland, along with Japan, is the country that invests most in education because they understand that the only prosperity of society, the progress of society and the wealth of society lies in education. When we figure it out, we'll get to it. I think in this law we've tried that chance or that difference to reduce or take that step. So what's good is that we certainly made it possible for education to get closer, to show greater concern, to get as many people, students, those who will be able to pass the education system, to get involved in the education system, because every system changes who is in it. We're going for that change as a society. We expect the ministry to make some significant sublaw that will monitor the implementation of these laws. We expect these laws to help us because education is the one that will help society get out of the crisis, it will help to change consciousness, and by changing consciousness, we will also change the attitude towards work, to the economy, to all other resources. Through times of social crisis, through the war and postwar traumatic experiences of our society. We must not forget that education has been difficult but perhaps the only and most persistent resisted the destabilising of its values. Enlightenment was also the other missions and people who opted for this job knowingly and responsibly supported the burden of destroying all values of society in transition. As Macarenko would say, the great and unrequited pedagogogog - there are no bad times, only people are bad. We were fortunate in our education to always have enthusiasts and to have good people, dedicated people. It's always been the education that built the invisible misery of the survival of social values, raised virtues in each and every one of us. Every society, including ours, did not promote warlords, but was promoted by judges, doctors, intellectuals, warlords, craftsmen, but in the root of all these people of their preeminence and knowledge were teachers. The most important base of this society was the other teachers. It's the oldest knowledge humanity has ever known, and from that knowledge it's come to the development of civilization. So please, we have enough arguments to support these laws, please look at our well-intentioned amendments. We have invested as a parliamentary group of 23 amendments and only in support of everything I said and in support of our system of education that we can all be proud of, because we have all passed this system of education and each of us individually feels that we have a solid education. That's why we're sitting here and now it's our job to help make it even better for those who come after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18084	The word has a folk ambassador, Sasa Milenić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18085	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Mr Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Education in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, cannot give this presentation to begin without remembering the former MP in the Federal Parliament, Momira Vojvodić, who in this room began his discussion with a remark – ladies and gentlemen, I hate to address you. This court of taste, which is not over-incentived, can be fooled if someone is made to express the views of the URS parliamentary group according to legal proposals. On the contrary, the URS parliamentary group in Voting Day will support each of these proposals with good reasons, because this package of laws is a normative upgrade of the education and education system in Serbia, because it contains a whole series of good, concrete solutions, because it is also about gender-sensitive laws and laws that are sensitive to children with development disorders and the needs of people with disabilities, because at the end of the year this package of laws represents a very concrete step forward in implementing already adopted education development strategies in Serbia by 2020. So, there is no dilemma that the MP group of the URS understandably supports this package of laws, but that taste of bitterness that I do not want to miss, even though I was overly emphasising, that I am underlining is derived from the feeling of missed possibilities, a relatively shallow reform procedure. This is not a criticism at the expense of the Ministry of Education and the proposed legal offer. Those who expect that all the accumulated problems in the educational process will solve exclusively the Ministry of Education and take full responsibility for the state of education process and educational standards in society and in general culture are obviously running away from understanding the situation that education is no longer an area where all those problems burden society and community and that the framework in which the Ministry of Education is to act is extremely limited. It also emphasizes the Minister of Education himself in his opening statement. Three elements of the restriction are most often mentioned. One is demographically related to the depopulation process. What is sad is the fact that I recall that depopulation is an integral part of the planned factors that will affect the process and picture of the education system in Serbia in 2020 and unfortunately confirms a quite accurate prediction. The second limiting factor is related to recession, related to the economic and financial crisis. The third is the one most often mentioned from the Ministry of Education and is a network of primary and secondary schools in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. It's undeniable like that. What I will pay particular attention to at the end of this presentation is the additional frameworks which are not enlightened, which I am afraid is essentially working for and which is extremely controversial whether pedagogical profession and educational authority and even with the support of the entire government can take responsibility without a more serious consensus in a society that excludes the responsibility of politics, political parties and actors on a political stage. But by the time I get to that topic, it wouldn't be directed to skip a series of details, which really represent an improvement in the existing education system. Someone's already mentioned it, mostly in the details, that's right, but a promotion. There are good solutions and discharges of primary school students, whether it's a first-cycle, lower-class primary school where students won't be able to have more than four hours a day anymore, because the Sunday fund is 20 hours, whether it's a second-cycle or higher grade primary school where students won't have more than five hours a day, because it's a weekly fund of 25 hours. I thank and support every intervention of the Ministry of Education, since this restriction has had a reverse effect on the norm of teachers, possibly on trade union issues that are and how tense they are in education. An amendment has been tabled, which the Committee on Science, Education and Technological Development strongly supports, which is that this 25-hour standard applies to compulsory teaching, not to academic and electoral teaching. It is very important to note that certain dochimological improvements are also incorporated into this law. For elementary schools, three, and for middle four grades in the midterm are now a legal obligation. It should be a means to combat campaign work, among other things. It shall, of course, contribute to a more complete assessment of student work and to the accentuation of the part of the teaching relating to the determination. In exceptional cases, it is certainly possible to postpone enrolment in the first class, one improvement in the system, the introduction of a legal framework for adult education, and thus create a chance to further supply tools to solve Serbia's most difficult social problem, the problem of unemployment. There are also no doubt positive measures and the obligation to retire teachers from 40 years of employment, i.e. 65 years of age, i.e. to raise the scholarship limit from a middle-rate study of 8.5 to 9.00, because this brings back the meaning of the concept of scholarship, and of course, those students who do not remain competitive enough, are also compensated through student loans. Not to list the details, they certainly contribute to the overall impression that within a given framework, this package of educational laws is indeed a step forward, a contribution to the adaptation and improvement of the educational system in Serbia. That is why the URS parliamentary group will support these laws. However, there are some objections for which at least in the form of questions we can put the Assembly to the consideration, the Ministry of Thinking, could it still be possible to improve the degree of partnership between local self-government and state education authorities in the conduct of the educational process? It seems to us that the existing system is too centralised. Of course, an undeniable legal answer can be given. The educational process, since it is of direct social interest, has the status of public service and this public service remains public whether it is carried out in private or public school in terms of founders, and public schools are the founders of the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government, so here you are, local self-government, start schools and be partners in the educational process, no one defends it. It might, but it looks like I'm going to take an example of the town of Kragujevac. More specifically, as President of the Kragujevac Assembly, I will not miss the opportunity to point out that local self-government seems to be a very serious and reliable partner in solving many problems in the educational process. In the town of Kragujevac, local self-government, for example, established a Centre for professional training of educators. In Kragujevac, a project assistant in the course may have been more successful, painless and easier to implement in schools than in other environments where, we hear in slow motion, there have been many complaints. It's a little embarrassing when local self-government is expected to reduce the network of primary schools, first of all, to participate in shutting down isolated departments in rural areas where indeed, however much someone wants to ironize, if you close down that school that's left, you can send a truck and move the village. It's definitely community recognition that there's no more perspective. Of course, these pampered possibilities stem from a basic problem that is social and about which politics must no longer be silent, because it cannot avoid responsibility. What exactly is a system of education and education in a community? It's a lot more than we're willing to publicly admit. I will refer to the philosophy of Arthur Libert's teaching, which was translated here in Belgrade in honor of the arrival of Professor Libert from the already growing fascism in Germany to the free world and as an example and the middle of the free world he chose Belgrade. His colleagues from Belgrade University have honored him with this book, and he as a Kantovac, who in no way failed to open the question of pedagogy, begins with a question – how is teaching even possible? What are the apriority conditions, the reasons that are in the very man who makes teaching possible? It's faith in the future, hope, belief that we're leaving the world better than we are and that we want to prepare them to be more prepared than we are. It is the basis of the process of education and education. We can't lie about what we think of the future. You can make whatever declarations you want, the attitudes to say, what one community really thinks about its future, it's read with a naked eye from the state of education and teaching. There she is without being able to lie to herself and other statements about her future, what she is preparing for generations to come. In that sense, I welcome all the efforts made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Education, because the percentage of the detachment from this budget is not small at all for education, as it is easy to spread, it says. It's somewhere, if I'm not mistaken, about 15%. That's almost double the budget when it's all being added up to, say, defense separations. But what is it? It is about real lies and the unpreparedness of the community to face matters of truth and responsibility. The hypocrisy becomes the main feature of a society that is already in the direction of counterintelligence and advocates, practically and activates self-destruction mechanisms. While talking about poor citizens of Serbia whose state, all-powerful and insensitive, is to be helped, there are trivial facts that foreign exchange accounts in banks in Serbia are more expensive than the foreign reserves of the Republic of Serbia, and these are not only wealthy. The rich are mostly savings in banks outside Serbia. Serbian citizens are richer than the Serbian state. Serbian citizens are massively involved in the suspensions of whether or not bills are paid, whether or not dogs are bitten or dogs are bitten, whether cars are actually broken down in shock holes. The whole system of lies and destruction of this country has led to an inscription in the sky above Serbia -- for sale, to sell out, so we'll go. Some may leave, but it can't be the morale of one community, unless it's defined as self-destruction. That is exactly what cannot be hidden from the state of the educational process in Serbia, which is largely fully placed in the role of meeting statistical expectations and expectations of parents and chics to try to oppose it. What is not progressing in the private sector of the education system? Which one would be crazy to pay for knowledge, when it's not a knowledge goal, and for free it gets what's the real goal in that society of exchanging lies – it's paper and license, the deed in mind. What I appeal to is that we understand the responsibility of all the political forces who insist on reforms, the responsibility for this dimension of the future that we can never, ever and anywhere express, but through criticism, ignorance, through support for the intellectual attitude and educational system in our country. In the end, it is that, that I too may enter into the pathetics, that of Plato's famous phrase, declared in the mouth of Socrates. If Athens is left without a cobbler, well, the Athenians will go barefoot. If Athens runs out of tailors, well, it's embarrassing, but it'll go unsullied. But if Athens runs out of teachers, Athens won't be. Not because the Athenians will die, biologically they will survive, Athens will not be as a community, because they experience the future, common ideals and projections based on the ability of the community. It communicates the education system to each individual and community, through a relationship to the education system. Education as a essence of state and community is not as often insistent – training. It's not even an increase in the amount of information, because otherwise computers would be the most educated and most capable of education. Traditionally, however, it is considered exclusively human, human. Education is about the rise of freedom, the emancipation of an educated individual. This is a well-known and adopted thing in teaching philosophy and in pedagoggy, and those of us who represent reforms and the future of Serbia are not expected to be reformers, we are not expected to be reform operators, who will professionally implement the completed concepts, but to impose optimism, faith in the future and the idea of freedom on all institutions and communities. The URS parliamentary group will vote in favour of all these laws on that day, not hiding that it feels sorry that we couldn't do more, with the belief that we were sharing it with the ministry's representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18086	The word is by MP Miletic Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18087	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister, Associates, State Secretary, Assistant Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have very important laws, one set of laws coming out of the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. It is not against us to repeat what these laws are for both the public and those who are following us and who may be now involved in monitoring this debate. When it comes to the laws in the field of education, I will first mention the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the founding of the education and education system. It's about the roof law. I stress him first. Then, the draft law on basic education, the Proposal for a law on secondary education and education, the Proposal for a Law on adult education, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student and Student Standard, the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Salaries relating to what would be to the receiving or the right to receive income in higher education, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Innovative Activities and the Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Topography and Semiconductive Products. When it comes to education laws, this is actually about five laws. On behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I can conclude that these legal solutions have taken one step forward. In fact, we have a good one in front of us, as someone said, weighty and regulated legal provisions that will better regulate everything in the domain of education, from preschool to secondary education, since higher education is not on the agenda now, unless we consider from some aspect what is a student standard, so these are issues related to higher education. When it comes to the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, these laws are governed by the basic system of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education. The law has been amended and complemented by current realities and practices on the economic, social and political agenda, both in Serbia and in the wider environment. The adoption of other specific laws stemming from what is the first roof law rounds the whole of legislation covering education. That's the step forward and that's the assumption of better quality work in this area. The law establishes a system and empowers competent institutions, such as the Institute for the Promotion of Education and Education, the Institute for the Valuation of Quality of Education and Education, the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development. When it comes to the Law on the Fundamentals of the Education and Education System, to remind ourselves, this law was last passed in 2009, compared to the one of 2003, when the reform of education in our country actually began, in the direction it is going today, and the provisions of the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System are therefore done here and amended, as well as the provisions of the specific laws we are considering here today, which are in line with the Education Strategy by 2020, as well as the circumstances in the environment, especially with the circumstances in the EU. Serbia needs a quality education and education system that will increase the educational level of the population. The development of our country of the Republic of Serbia is based on knowledge. So only one such concept can make progress and give perspective to our society and our country. This law, in fact these laws, is also about the Law on Fundamental Education and Education and on the Law on Middle Education and Education, as well as the Law on Adult Education, provides greater coverage, accessibility, greater quality, efficiency, and, more importantly, institutionalisation of all types of education. An important section in these laws is additional support in education and education or issues related to inclusion. Because these laws provide access to all levels of education through a series of measures for children, students and adults who are socially deprived, who have developmental disorders or are disabled. These measures are for example. The removal of physical and communication barriers, for example, has never been considered in earlier times. Then there are individual educational plans that are very important for the realization of those programs that are intended for this part of the population, which are affected by the inclusion. The presence of assistants or assistants in educational work is very important. Afterwards, it was also arranged to assist experts from special schools in terms of assisting in these other schools that cover persons with developmental disorders. It is important to say that the law takes care of the increased educational role of the school, and that is a very important dimension that appears in these laws. In line with the Strategy on Development of Education, in accordance with other strategies, national strategies for prevention and protection of children against violence, the fight against drugs, for young people, the educational role of school has been strengthened, as well as the involvement of other actors in the educational process. It used to be spoken in pedagogical theory, and in practice it was applied, what was so-called. A pedagogical triangle involving a student, a teacher and a parent. Today there are poly angles in the realization of teaching. It no longer comes down to this pedagogical triangle, including other actors in the educational process, such as local self-government, in the broadest sense, but also many authorities and institutions from these local self-governments. That's why we have programmes, the law provides that in schools, both in primary and secondary schools, programmes for protection against violence, abuse and neglect. A programme to prevent other forms of risky behaviour, environmental protection, safety and health at work, then cultural activities, etc., which is very important in that educational dimension. Because we cannot forget, and we must not forget that the function of school is not only education but also education. But when we talk about it, we need to work long enough to get these other actors out of school to accept their role, very important, because today we often have that parents themselves are not aware of their roles in what education is, or education their children, that at some point, when problems arise, they leave it or for certain problems to transfer to the school field, they transfer the school that it is unedited, that it is inefficient, that it does not work properly. I had an example of working at Petrovic High School as a teacher, and then as a director, that once upon a time a parent came to me and said that I couldn't let the students go to the prom with their car, forgetting that the keys to those cars were not my car, but my parents'. This is an obvious, perhaps banal example of how easily other actors, who are in charge of what should be discipline and participation in raising children and our students, flee from their duties. The issue of professional orientation and alignment with what the labour market is, in fact, in the laws is treated in a section that speaks of career management and student counselling programmes. The need for the labour market is a variable category. It is not long-term and therefore the school needs to understand its programmes, in such a way as to train future citizens, young people who will be able to easily adapt to current needs and new technologies and new market requirements. This is why it is important through education, here it is said in these laws, to provide outcomes such as the development of key competences that are necessary for the day of education and other, the development of professional competences that are necessary for successful employment. But there is prejudice from earlier times, that once a school is completed, a diploma or a qualification for a particular profession and occupation implies that the knowledge is learned for all time. That can never be true. In the modern current moment, there has often been innovation – technological development, newspapers, scientific achievements that dictate the need for continuous learning, permanent learning and improvement, and there is no, I could say, I would agree, as some others have said even from Western European countries, there is no education system that can in the longer term support labour market needs. By opening these issues, we come to what education is and beyond what education is at a basic level, i.e. primary education, secondary education, and also higher education. So what I was talking about when it comes to experts once created with a certain qualification or a degree having no knowledge of their entire lives, that means higher education. This also applies to the highest levels of knowledge and training. This is how we come to the proposal for a law on adult education. It is a very significant step if we talk about the quality of these laws, because this law first appears in our practice. It is very important, in this sense because it systemically regulates this area and provides opportunities for people who want to be further educated or to be recognized for their previous knowledge. This law improves the qualification structure, which is otherwise bad in Serbia today, but also increases and formally recognises the educational level of the population. Through formal and informal education, we actually exercise the right to work by obtaining certain qualifications, i.e. the right to requalification, qualifications, specialist education, then education and training of the unemployed for labour market needs, training in order to achieve a higher degree of knowledge in the profession, education of adults and persons with disabilities in development, etc. The law also regulates informal education and recognition of competences and skills acquired by informal means, which is very important and very important. Today, in our society, we have many people who are capable of certain jobs, who have learned certain jobs through circumstances, and formally do not have any paper or verification that they know it. They may know better than those who have formally completed a certain school in the area. It is therefore necessary to institutionalise these issues and this kind of education. I will return to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. When it comes to the Agency for Education and Education, I think there's something better to define what the role of this agency is. Our SPS parliamentary group, of course, in consultation with Mr Obradovic's team, has come up with a certain solution that will be offered here and we hope to improve this part. The Agency does not mean that it will remain after 2016. It is probably conditioned with what standards are in Europe, and we will see if it should remain and whether we will be conditioned to keep it as presented here. At least it was introduced because of what some might interpret, that it is another institution that will serve to hire these or those, it certainly is not. In the end, I will conclude by saying that the SPS will support all these laws, because it is actually a major and quality step in regulating education in Serbia. Certainly the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development deserves support in this regard.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18088	The word has the People's MP Miodrag Stojkovic. Before you start, let me just say that the National Assembly ofscale will extend the work, which means that we will not work exactly until 6:00 p.m., but only until Dr Stojkovic is finished. We won't interrupt him if he uses all 20 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18089	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try to remain objective in my criticism, of course, as someone who is from the opposition, and also someone who has earned his primary, secondary and later university education in this country, and as someone who has been given the opportunity to advance his career abroad. So, with great joy, I remember what kind of education I had as a child. The only thing I would like to say at the beginning of my presentation is that the way these laws came, that is, the speed of the law and the number of laws that entered into this assembly procedure, or debate, was too short for us to focus on better studying all these laws. I'll remind you, there are only six of those involved in education. It may have been better, not perhaps, but certainly, that we first have a public debate, as we had in the 2020 strategy, which we have organised nicely together and which these laws are partly based on and want to follow this 2020 strategy, especially as regards basic, medium, higher, higher education and adult education. All those laws that are under discussion today reminded me more or less of one train, the composition of the wagon, where every law is one car. You're sure we're all wondering what a locomotive is? The locomotive is actually a state that needs to pull all those wagons, and education is, unfortunately, that rail on which that train of law moves. In our case, the problem is that this rail is really a rigid, inflexible device that makes it impossible at the same time to see the problem, as we have said and heard today, the problem of education in our country, which is not only about education, but also about demographics, that Serbia melts, that every year 30,000 people have fewer in this country, that nearly 7,000 pupils are enrolled in secondary schools, and nearly 1,500 in the first grade of primary school. One information that must always surprise us all, start to surprise and shock us, is actually how much this country invests in education. I think it's one of the biggest problems in our society. Where are the priorities? Do we want to invest in children and the future? One who does not invest in children and education does not invest in the future. If we know that there is about 5% of GDP for education, Mr. Minister himself today said that, unfortunately, only 94% goes to salaries, then we see how much remains for all those other basic and secondary education needs, how much remains for teachers, for their education, for the opportunities they need to provide to local self-government, to improve this education at all levels. On the other hand, as someone who really longs and with great desire and here deals with science, in that one pyramid of education I can't help but say something about science, because science is at the top of that pyramid. It's that society that came out of an elite education society and that society that's supposed to drag this country. Unfortunately, again and again, I have to say that with 0.3% of GDP, we don't have a chance to be a scientific country, we don't have a chance to be a competitive country. So these are the basic problems that plague our education, and surely these basic problems require a complex solution. That's why these laws, without solving these problems, will remain, I'm afraid, just a dead letter on paper. If we know that basic education is mandatory under the Constitution, it certainly looks forward to the fact that 95% of children are enrolled and graduates from primary school. It's something that's really, really, really looking forward to. Then we wonder why high school isn't mandatory? If we know that some 3,000 children per year don't graduate from primary school in primary education, and if we know that it's a generation of seven to 14 years, then we get a figure of about 24 to 25,000 children, which is a very large number. On the other hand, we have a high school where that number can be bigger just because it's not a commitment. Of the 20% generation 15% of students, which means 10 to 15,000 young people per generation don't finish high school, i.e. He's out of qualifications. It is a large number of young people who cannot find any prosperity, cannot find happiness, or cannot find satisfaction because they have no chance of dealing with any occupation because they did not go to school. Honestly, I don't understand why secondary education isn't mandatory in our country, either. I'm sure you've been following, very often written by newspapers and other means of public information, but there are studies that say that, unfortunately, not only is the number of children in decline, but also the number of quality institutions, the school is in decline. I'm talking about infrastructure. What concerns the most is the fact that 200 schools in Serbia do not have running water, that every third school in Serbia does not have a toilet. By reading this law, at one point I wondered why it was in the law that every school should have the Internet. Of course he should have the Internet. It's the 21st century. It's the Internet. But if we know that a large number of schools and students still attend schools in the 19th century, then I think we should put priorities. First, we need to take care of the infrastructure of those schools, and there's really a lot of them. Just remember those sad stories of a student on foot. Children go ten kilometers in one direction to get to school and 10 kilometers in the other direction. Remember the story around the administrative border of Vranje, Leskovac, towards Kosovo. There are schools that are made of mud, that don't have a toilet, that don't have liquid water. The kids are going in one direction for nine kilometers to get to school. There you have, someone would say, a very small number of children. Every child is very important. Our job is to provide every child with an education opportunity. Thirteen children, and hunting society says a pack of 200 wolves lives in that area. Then why is the transport of those children not free, like, for example, the transport of teachers? Surely there is a possibility through these amendments that all of you have submitted. Mr. Minister, over 400 amendments await you. We've handed over 50 amendments. We hope that together we can find some solution to fix all these laws that you have proposed. What is heard all day, which is the funding of students, or the number of students in the department, should it be 25, as proposed by the 2020 Strategy, or should it be 30, as you suggested. I think we should stick to the Strategy, and I think we already, and you said today yourself, you met the norm, that there are departments that are below 20, or 25, so I don't see why I don't keep 25 and go especially that financing by the percapita principle, or how many students are paid. So that's something you really need to support. Of course, today is also mentioned the right of students to education, students with distractions, national minorities. We have also heard data that are truly worrying about the disciples, or about the children of Roma. Such structures deserve special attention and deserve truly equal rights to education. If we know that that adult data, which is people who never went to school or didn't finish primary school, there's 71% of them, and that's the poorest group. They should certainly be able to get better involved in this system and overqualified, or learn what they need to learn to be useful not only to themselves and their family, but also to society as a whole. When we look at all these numbers, which is all this data that says what a large number of children who never enters, doesn't finish high school, primary school, then it's no wonder that the enrolment rate is more than and high school is 49.1%. If I'm not mistaken in EU countries, it's about 61%, which means we're behind average. Surely what you have suggested, which is the law on student and student standards, that a scholarship is granted to students only if they have an average higher than nine is what someone would think is good at first, because under the precepts they make students learn better, or that they're stimulated to learn better, so they don't pay tuition. Someone mentioned that the number of these students has increased greatly, but don't forget that we live in a time of crisis and that anyone who is worthy can achieve that average. However, if you ask students to have an average of 9.00, then students can ask themselves -- and what do you give us in return if you raise that scale? Are you going to offer a better quality of university? Better quality class? Better quality textbooks? Are you going to improve all of this, and are we, like a country that has seven state universities and seven private universities, going to improve that quality of education, and not just being guided by who finished college faster and who got a degree before, and did someone actually study to get a degree? If we know that on that Shanghai list that actually deals with the evaluation of the quality of all these universities and universities, Belgrade University has one solid place. So, of the 20,000 universities that have been studied by Belgrade is among the top five hundred, next is Novi Sad, which is somewhere on the list between 1000 and 1500, and the best-ranked private university is in the group between 5,000 and 10,000. Then it can be concluded that it is actually low, unfortunately I have to say, the level of efficiency of higher education in Serbia and the fact that we are asking students to be excellent, but we are not asking that of the university. It's a big discord and I'd like you to consider amendments that say students should have an average of 8.5 to create free schooling rights. Another question is raised, today we have heard a lot of discussions and on this subject for sure, it is a famous Education Agency, because we know that there are already institutes dealing with this issue and the education agency, of course, and unfortunately there are no clearly defined competences and tasks, and the proposed competences are already described in the work of other institutes, as I have told the councils and institutions. This overlaps the function, and possibly the possible cost of growth. We're not a country that can throw money, we hear we don't have enough education, why build such an agency? Another thing that worries here is actually the function of the National Educational Council. The National Educational Council is an institution that has been in this country for 120 years. It also deals with the evaluation, or recommendation of textbooks, which Mr. Minister later confirms and approves. In the new law, the National Educational Council is bypassed as such to give its recommendation. We don't see why it needs to be lifted, because it all comes down to the Ministry. Whether there are enough qualified people, I don't want to go into it, but why take such a right, one long tradition of the National Educational Council, which was very successful in doing so. Unfortunately, you've probably been offered that bad history campaign eight and fighting whether it's a political issue or not? I don't think at this point the political issue has anything to do with this education, or the role of the National Educational Council. In the end, I'd just like to get back to the beginning of my presentation. I was surprised why we discussed it today, since at the end of our working hours we were discussing such a large number of education laws, and we didn't put in, or you didn't introduce a law regarding the reciprocal recognition of diplomas, or so on. "nostorification". You all remember that we proposed a month ago to amend that law, which, I think, is a very bad advertisement for our education, if that law is not passed as soon as possible, for one single reason, because a large number of young people who unfortunately had to leave here want to go back, and they've acquired their own education, diplomas somewhere abroad. If you make them wait a year, two years, to get their diplomas from Cambridge, Oxford or Stanford on state roads, or if they have 2,000 euros, they can go to a private university and they get nostration there much faster, then we send these signals that they are not actually desirable. I hope and ask at the same time when this law will finally enter the procedure, because it's a very, very important law, because we can't send what we're sending, and you know for yourself that the last three school years we've sent 983 to study abroad, and now that they get a degree there abroad, we're going to ask them to nostrify their diploma and pay for that nostrification. In my opinion, it doesn't make sense, or we send them there to learn something to come back here, or we have to tell them don't come back, nostration can cost you both a long time and money. In the end, I still think, unfortunately, that all of these parameters we heard today, which I said today, that Serbia remains a field where we continue to lose the most important battles, that the most important battle is actually for the future of our country, we lose it for demographic reasons, but we lose it for these reasons to reduce the criteria and level of education in our country, or we don't give it a chance for young people to have the same equivalent chance of dealing with education and that we as a country would one day be competitive compared to the whole world. It can only be if we have a good education. Again, I have to answer that comparison with trains and railways, if we continue like this, we will certainly not cross that average of our rails, which is 40 kilometers an hour, while others are already traveling 200 hours an hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-06-11-0.u18090	Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the 5th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 76 Members of the Parliament are present. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 85 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr Milivojevic. Here you go.
