ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15902	Madam Chairman, the ruling majority has again forced me to advertise the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Article 87 and Article 88. So, I've been telling you that every time I warn you, a session of the Rules of Procedure doesn't start at the scheduled time. Today's session was scheduled for 11.00 hours. The session starts at 11.20. In accordance with Article 88. The Rules of Procedure say that if you realize you don't have a quorum, you should postpone the session within the hour. If you also find that you do not have a quorum, the session will be postponed for the first day the ruling majority MPs can wake up and join what citizens have chosen to work for in parliament. I'm sorry, I told you I wouldn't let the assembly sessions start with 20 minutes late. This is a disgrace and a disgrace to what you do and how you mock the most important institution in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15903	Thank you. The word has Minister Ivan Mrkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15904	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you a proposal for a decision on the use and participation of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security training mission in Mali in 2013. Based on UN Resolution and the relevant decisions of the EU Council, EU foreign security policy chief Catherine Ashton, she called on Serbia to consider participating in the EU military and security forces training mission Mali. To contribute to the successful implementation of the EU Mission in Mali, the Ministry of Defence and the Serbian Army are ready to hire medical staff and training teams up to 13 people. The necessary funding for the implementation of the Serbian Army's 2013 EU military and security training plan for Mali's military and security forces amount to 75m160,000 dinars, approved by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013 under Section 18 – the Ministry of Defence. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia at a session of the Third Extraordinary Session in 2013, held on 20 February 2013, decided on the adoption of an annual plan for the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013, and a decision on the participation of the Serbian Army in multinational operations in 2013. The proposal for a decision on the use and participation of the Serbian Army in the EU Mission in Mali in 2013, was prepared in accordance with the Law on the Use of Serbia Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia, bearing in mind that the call for participation in the EU Mission to Mali has arrived after the adoption of the annual plan for the use of the Serbia Army and other defence forces in multinational operations in 2013, as well as the fact that this mission is not foreseen by the annual use plan for 2013. The involvement of Serbian military members in multi-national operations contributes to strengthening their own defence capacities and national security. The participation of members of the Serbian Army in activities under the EU's common security and defence policy is one of the defence ministry's priority objectives, which we have also demonstrated by the involvement of Serbian soldiers in the EU's military operation against pirates in Somalia, where we currently have a staffed staff member and an EU mission to train the security forces of Somalia in Uganda, where we currently have an engaged staff officer and a medical team of four persons in hospital level one. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by calling on the EU to consider participating in the EU Mission in Mali, a new chapter has been opened in Serbia's relations with the EU, which means deepening co-operation and partnership relations with EU member states. I propose that the National Assembly adopt a Decision on the use of the Serbian Army in the EU Army to train Mali's military and security forces in 2013. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15905	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15906	Thank you. Since I am the chairman of the Security Control Committee, it should be my turn to inform all my colleagues at the outset, which is why for the first time this report on the work of the Committee, or on the supervision of the security services carried out by the parliamentary committee, is being submitted to the National Assembly. I truly consider this a great and personal privilege, and it seems to me the privilege of all of us to be aware of our work, which is not always in the epicenter of seeing and the horizon of what people and our citizens are looking at on TV, which is the work of the Committee, to be familiar with the extents of such serious work in which they participate, of course, and I would not only like to highlight myself and my colleagues from the parliamentary group, but really from all the opposition parties that participate in the work of this committee. Since you've already had a chance to get acquainted with the Security Services Management Report... I'm sorry, can you tell Mr. Photojournalists to get off this part since I'm now explaining a very important report from the Committee? Please make it possible for me to work normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15907	Please allow the speaker to exhibit uninterruptedly. (Hope of Kolundji, from the place: she could stand up.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15908	I think it's up to each and every one of us to choose whether to get up or sit down. I don't think that I'm expressing any disrespect, on the contrary. I'd like to be very specific. I use the papers to remember things, because I don't think I'm the smartest, unlike the many who sit in this congregation. So, since you've already had a chance to get acquainted with the Security Services Service Management Committee's safety oversight report, on the basis of Article 231. The Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly established at a session held on 29 March 2013, held that day for the reason that, by 31 March, the Committee has an obligation to report to the National Assembly and all MPs on the surveillance carried out, so that we used this last moment to get as much activity as possible in this report, only to look at the Committee's most significant activities at the beginning and be in the mood to discuss with all other MPs what they think should be improved, perhaps further in the Committee's work. As is known, the Security Control Committee is a specific committee primarily because of its competences in the control and supervision of the work of the Security Service. The security sector is, as is generally known, and everywhere in the world is thus, always covered by some partial veil of secrets, resulting from the nature of security services, but that is why the Committee members must perform their supervisory and control function by balancing between understanding of what security services are as their priority for protecting national and national interests, security above all, states and citizens must work and, on the other hand, those obligations arising from all civilised flows and obligations not only of the EU, but of a truly legal society, which is civil and democratic control of elected authorities above all. For this very reason, although we are well limited to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has indeed taken over all the necessary activities in the previous period from its constitution to this day so that in one and a meaningful but safe way it can achieve its legal and jurisdiction and obligations. Given that most of the data that we are handling in the work of security services control, members of the Committee generally come into contact with data that have been marked and classified as a state secret, as top secret, fall under that category of classified information, the first thing the Committee did, and I would like to stress that, and not being a practice from me completely unknown reasons, was not a practice of holding closed sessions, a session closed to the public. It's something that's practice everywhere in the world. It implies the establishment of one type of trust and the atmosphere and technical and all other conditions in which the agencies, in this case VBA, VOA and BIA, will have the opportunity not to violate their obligations to keep secrets and to carry out risks and the possibility of classified data leaving the building of this assembly and circulating in public, which is one of the types of national security threats. That is why we unanimously, all the members of the Committee participated, always thanking the constructive work of all the members of the Committee, especially with regard to this decision, have decided to close the meetings for the public and that the Committee can exceptionally decide that the session called for for the purposes of classified information is open to the public. The same decision also provides for adequate security and protection measures during the holding of a committee session closed to the public, and it is now very important to mention this story that is mentioned in public about a deaf room. It's actually not a deaf room at all, but all the counter-hearing and anti-diverzione measures are taken in the sense that neither mobile phones are entered. There's a technical security room in King Milan and we're holding press conferences there. So these are sessions where you can't get out, you can't bring in any technical appliances, they're fully secure and they've proved very effective. It has been shown that in this way we can, with the representatives of the security services and the directors, who are really coming, and I have to mention that, in a number of terms, with all people covering relevant sectors in the agencies concerned. So, there are really constructive sessions and we can say that up until now, there have been four, in this report there are three, and in the meantime we have considered once again the bia half-year regular report on 29 April 2013, so that we have had four, actually five, given that for the first time and with the Inspector-General we have considered the report of the General Inspector-General on the work of the VBA and VOA. So, this is what did not enter this report, and there is not another important thing that happened in the meantime, and that is why I consider it an obligation to present to my fellow MPs, which is that because of the existence of a legal void and the inability to regulate the Rules of Procedure the way in which the Security Control Committee would exercise direct control and direct supervision of the work of the Security Service, and since we cannot adopt any rules in the Rules of Procedure, we have formed one working group involving representatives and positions and oppositions. This task force was run by a colleague, Nenad Milish, of the LDP. There were colleagues Nenad Popovic and Igor Becic. The working group was tasked with making an internal document, in agreement with the representatives and directors of the Security Service, on how the Committee can actually play its direct role and, in fact, in the full capacity of the matter of its security control competence. The task force did part of their job. Of course, on the Committee, we have partially modified and amended this work and the draft, and in a good atmosphere and debates we have made this internal act, an internal decision on how to direct surveillance of security services will be carried out. That act is available to MPs. They can get to know him if they're interested in getting adequate knowledge about it. The Committee meetings under consideration attended as I said by the directors of agencies and security services, and I must say and really commend a good one and seem to me in full confidence and in the full good intentions and faith, work and directors of security services who, for the first time, were able to speak openly to the Committee's members at meetings and to answer questions. I see that there is a great deal of non-interest by colleagues from the congregation benches, when it comes to the Committee's work. I'm really sorry. I hear frequent remarks on the work, not on the work of the Committee, but on the service of security at all. It's always being asked as some mystified question, and now you're getting relative answers, so you might be able to hear something, but of course, it's already on the conscience of each of the MPs. In line with the Committee's work plan, which I would also like...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15909	Mrs Joksimovic, I would just like you to take care of the weather, after I let you go longer than the Rules of Procedure allows.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15910	Excuse me, how much time do I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15911	You're out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15912	I'm sorry, I'll continue in the discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15913	Do the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is by MP Nenad Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15914	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank my colleagues for giving me the time to speak before they do. I'll talk about the work of the Security Control Committee. First of all, to point out the most important fact, which is that for the first time in the history of our parliamentaryism, the Security Control Committee has been established. It's the first time. There was a security control in the previous period, but within a large board of defences and home affairs, but this new organisation, the existence of this committee really enables normal parliamentary work, civil control of security services, which makes use of the best practice that exists in the world today. On the other hand, it's one of the foundations of a modern state. I have to point out in the beginning that the board worked really well. At all of his meetings, the committee had dynamic discussions, they had different opinions, but in the end, after everything, there was always consensus and I think that for this first year of work, it hasn't been a year yet, but for this first period, the Committee really did the maximum in the circumstances in which it worked. I would also like to point out, for the sake of all of us, the extremely correct relationship and the positive relationship between the management of all three security services that have been very cooperative, even helping us in the Committee with advice, were very open to all information, very open to control. I think in this first year, except it was built, the Committee managed to do the first signs of security control. It is indeed commendable and once again to thank the management of all security services for their outstanding cooperative work, because they understood that this control was also in their interest, above all. We also worked with independent state authorities, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Citizens' Protector, the public information trustee and the protection of personal data and the DRI. That co-operation was on an excellent level. I'll say a little more about the future of the Committee's work and what can be done in the next period. The dynamics of this Committee's work are quite specific, since the services are working on a very active daily basis and the Committee's work dynamics would in some ways have to monitor this dynamic, because any large time range unless it is filled with the work of the Committee cannot contribute to full quality. We need to work faster and more dynamicly, but there are key problems today for the Committee to work better. It's something we should all contribute to together. First of all, it's a better personnel organization inside the camera that exists on the Committee. The people who work on the Committee today are good and quality personnel, but there are few. Really little. The board would have to have a lot more people working in the machine to make the result of the Committee's work better. I'm talking about the work of an administrative apparatus. A number of people are needed, but since the specifics are brand-new, they also need advisors who could help the members of the Committee who should be doing the job for four years, to assist professional advice, ideas and explanations of the work methodology in their work. In order for the work of the service to be controlled in a quality way, one logistics, staff, financial and other support is necessary to respond to all the challenges. I'll give you an example. In the U.S. Senate on a board that has a little more members than we do, they meet twice a week. They have their own bodies that control the work of service every day. In administrative support of the members of the Committee, 45 people work daily to assist the members of the Security Control Committee in analysis, monitoring, proposals, measures to make the Committee's work more quality. For the past three years, that committee has met 115 times in three years. That's 45 times a year. If we take away those annual holidays and the period when the assembly or parliament does not meet, it practically met once a week in public hearings. Once a week in public. The secret sessions that were closed to the public were more. Minimum once or twice a week is mandatory board meetings, but these secret meetings were much more. This shows how much capacity is invested in this very important segment for national security. I think it is very important that we take a step-by-step in the future to strengthen the administrative apparatus of this Committee in human beings, advisedly and allow the members of the Committee to be much better. I will repeat once again that in my opinion, the Committee has done a great job in this first period, but I'm sure it can be better. I'm going to run another theme, and that's the theme of the methodological base. I think it's something he would suggest to a respected representative of the ministry and his colleagues and those who operate security services, but also to the security coordinator. I think it's something you can do in the next three, four years. In order to form personnel, professional staff, who could work on the Committee, in an administrative apparatus, to allow members of the Committee, Members of Parliament, in a four-year term, to do their job better, it is necessary that we have a methodological base. I see that base, first of all, at the university. This is a whole new matter in Serbia and today, practically, we don't have any literature, I speak practically. There are some good shifts from some NGOs, but at universities today there are no, practically, no literature, no methodological bases dealing with security control. I think it's very important, this is my proposal to the respected representative of the Ministry of Defence and his colleagues and services, and also to the security coordinator, to try to do something to form this methodological base in these three, four following years. I think university courses are one of the basic elements. Here, first of all, I see a few colleges. It's the Faculty of Political Sciences, it's the Faculty of Law, it's certainly these Academy of Security, but I think there's the Faculty of Economics. Why the Faculty of Economics? It's about the budget. It's about the finance. I'll talk about it a little bit later. Of course, I'm sure it's hard to carry out these courses if there is no government support, and I'm sure it's in the interest of all and services, as well as the Assembly, that is, that is, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think that a working group, which you would form, could actually try within a year to two years to form a wide-ranging methodological base that would include cooperation with universities, or universities, on specific topics, but also, that, through the analysis of literature that exists, which is practically not in Serbia, but really has excellent in America, exists in Russia, I think that using these literature, knowledge, that working group could, within a year, prepare one basis that would help in the future the work of our Committee, both administrative associates, advisers and others, and above all, of course to the members of the Committee, and therefore to all the Members of the People's Parliaments. The report that was made was a certificate of good work for each of these three services. I am extremely happy that the service executives also accepted very quickly, without any problem that this report is of benefit to them. During the Committee's work, objections were made to service managers, no major failures were seen, but some of the details they quickly accepted and corrected automatically. Times change faster, service managers change, and each report on good or quality work of the security service is a certificate of the same leadership that they did well during a certain period. When four years passed, every security executive can say – in those four years I had four or eight controls of the Assembly Security Control Committee, I had no objections, I received a certificate that I worked extremely well. In this way, we allow people to analyze this past period peacefully in the future. Where in the coming years can we progress further in this control? First of all, I think we will certainly continue to work as an Committee, but I think we will certainly pay much more attention to more detailed proposals to improve work, because we are also getting new information in this period, we are getting some new knowledge, and I think that this report will be better and better every year. It is important to specify that the work of the service is one of the basic things, always in accordance with the Constitution and with the laws. It's one of the key things. I think that should be the starting point for every start of the report. As for the analysis and use of others' experiences, I think we should first of all use the experience of the largest countries. Here, first of all, I see the U.S. and the Russian Federation, which are probably the furthest away from here. I was living alone in the United States recently, and I met in the U.S. Senate with fellow senators. Also, I met with the operational director of their Security Control Committee. They have about 50 years of best practice in control and the basic element in that control is that procedures are always respected. So, procedures are always respected, regardless of the degree of national security threat. There is an interesting moment, that they have a special court of Foreign Intelligence Curveillance Court which is a court for the control of external intelligence activities and that court is working, or 24 hours 365 days, to be prepared at any time to issue a warrant for certain measures in order to eliminate dangers or security risks. What's this saying? That says two things. Of course, it'll take us years and years to get to it, but we have to get started. First of all, I'm saying that in a legally regulated state, no matter how big and how powerful and no matter what security threats are under, and we know that America is probably under major security threats every day, they must never be bypassed by established legal procedures. It's the first axioma. The legal procedures must never be circumvented. The second thing, that no service, no individual, no matter what security challenges they face, must take on their own actions, but therefore must be granted approval, in this case to them, the court as an independent authority, with us from the one who has been ordered, but in time, the court is the only one who has to give permission to take any action. Analyzing this latest report by the Security Control Committee in the US Senate, here I have it here, it's online, I've noticed that their committee, it's also important for us, for our future, has organized dozens of public hearings on various topics that are important to their country's security. So they have a traditional annual hearing about global dangers. They have been hearing about what they had on Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Libya, etc. They had a public hearing about the operation that killed Bin Laden. They had a public hearing about cyber security, about the leak of information in the media, but also about the thematic issues that are important for the security of a country, which I spoke about at the beginning, which is co-operation with universities, education staff, even to learning foreign language, because in intelligence, in security jobs today without foreign language knowledge, it's really hard to monitor the modern methodology without talking about information technologies and the latest technologies in this area. Of course, there is another very important thing that I want to point out, which is that they have appointed in the Senate four members of the Security Committee to be members of four other key committees at the same time. One's for the judiciary, one's for security, one's for foreign policy and one's for finance. There are practically all four key branches, including finance, which we always forget, and I think is one of the most important things in control, as well as for the work of the security service. Of course, to add that in the context of the standard budget control process in the American Senate, it is the Security Control Committee that gives initial authority to the funds for these services. So, the Committee gives initial authority in the budgetary procedure for the funds for these services. As far as funding is concerned, that's what I was saying and last time, that's where we all agreed on the Committee, I really have to point out, too transparently in our budget is showing funding for the Security Service. We are practically just one country in Europe and Canada that has more transparently shown funding in the budget than we are. The general opinion of all members of the Committee is that the financing of services should be shown by one digit, such as in 99% of other countries, and that it is fully open to those who control the work, and that is the Security Control Committee, and that is on the other hand, this Parliament, or the National Assembly. Of course, great importance should be given to training people who work in services, especially in IT technologies, foreign languages, finance, I always stress finance, and of course what is important, and that is economic and energy security... (President: Time. ) In the end, I would say, I think that during this short period the Committee was really doing well and that this report was quite an indicator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15915	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragan Shormaz, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15916	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm sorry to be forced to do something like this, but I think it's a turn to do it. I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure. 128th and 127th. First, Article 128. - People's MPs are obliged to carry identification cards with them on their way out of the O.R. Col. Srdjan Milivojevic has not carried out the card for 20 minutes as MP Popovic speaks, he has not been there for more than half an hour, and his card stands next to his laptop, now without a picture. Article 127. - MPs are obliged to use their identification cards exclusively, as well as to identify themselves when entering the hall by inserting a card into the MP's unit, i.e. to log out when leaving the hall. I mean, we've been getting lectures a few times, and I'm not saying a colleague is wrong when he says we had to start at 11.00. I don't feel called because I've been in the O.R. already at 10.50 hours, but also, I'm not saying that opposition MPs should put in cards when the quorum is determined. As an opposition MP, I've never put in a card, except when we agree on it. So the government is obliged to enable the start of work and the ruling majority is obliged to have a majority. But it's hypocritical that someone who doesn't even put in a card, afterwards reports to the Rules of Procedure the same one who doesn't respect it at the time, to criticise it. Here, now I'm saying, I'm going to be criticizing it when it doesn't start in time. But we don't need to use everything for politicisation, and then we call for Parliament's reputation and how parliament works. I think it's a flagrant violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15917	I ask all MPs, as far as the cards are concerned, to follow the Rules of Procedure and to carry their identification cards with them if they leave the room. Mrs Joksimovic, did you want a replica as the Committee's rapporteur? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15918	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Popovic for his active participation in the Committee's work and for everything he has done within the Committee. However, I have to answer a few things that I don't think are the way Mr Popovic pictured them. First of all, it may not be the most important thing, but for me it is the most important, and these are the administrative capacities that Mr Popovic spoke of. I think that better service in the congregation than I have insight, and I have insight, and sometimes I want to commend people who do their job responsibly and worth their work in the interests of the Assembly, both citizens and us as MPs. First of all, I am referring to the secretary of the Committee, Miss Katarina Terzic, but also to everyone who works in my Committee and the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs. They're extraordinary people. It's four or five of them, I'm not sure how much they're quite enough, by their knowledge and understanding, logistically in every other way to help us. Among other things, the personal initiative of the MPs is very important. Personal education and motivation are also something that binds us in this House. I don't think we have the conditions to have how many administrative workers. I really want to commend these people, and I know that Mr Popovic also praised them. I don't think he meant anything by it, but I want to point out once again that the personal initiative is also very important. That is why Mr Popovic may not have been able to participate in the Committee's work. So the dynamics are pretty good. Turn up your own dynamics, and that'll make it even better, so we'll all get together on the dynamics. The Committee's work plan is very dynamic. It's the first time a committee like this is a profile like this I bring up my work plan. You can see him, he's on five or six sides. It is subject to both additions and changes and anything that ad hoc appears as a matter of committee. I also find it interesting that the comparative method of the United States and Serbia to control the security of Congress and the National Assembly has been used completely, I can't say unreasonablely, but you know what, the United States has 20 different security services and are incomparably bigger states than we are in any way. But I can see that fascination is a great state. For Serbia, I don't know how good it is, but I think we should work within our capabilities and start working in that direction. I'm just finishing up one more time, which is that this report is, among other things, for the benefit of the service. This report is, above all, in favour of Serbian citizens, for the benefit of all those working in this parliament on behalf of and in the interest of Serbian citizens. Of course, it is good that the security services and their current directors recognized the importance and verification of their work through parliament, but it is not my wish, either, as a representative of the ruling party, to facilitate security services, but rather, that through one meaningful and active work they acquire both knowledge and commitment to the legality of their work and the spending of budgets is the subject of a daily and active analysis of the relevant Committee of Parliament of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15919	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric, according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15920	I'm advertising a breach of Article 128. Rules of Procedure. I commend Mr. Shormaz for reporting on this basis and asking for some cards to be removed, but I suppose, a perceptive visionary in those distances that go up to the DS, I think Mr. Shormaz missed seeing that one card standing only two rows ahead of him, and also some cards of SNS MPs. Mr. Arsic was fast enough, he ran and removed the card. Please, if we are already consistent, remove all the cards that are in the system and the MPs are not there.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15921	I'd like professional services to take all the cards out of the parliamentary units with no MPs sitting next to them. The word has a People's MP, Mirko Chikiriz. I'm sorry, Mr Popovic wanted the replica. Please, just sign in one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15922	Thank you. Short replica. I didn't say for a moment that people who work in support of the Committee, those four or five people, are doing bad things. Moreover, I commend them and once again commend them for quality work, but I remain in my opinion that we and the work of this committee, precisely because of Parliament, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the future, I will repeat this word many times in the future, for even more quality work and to help us, both people and advisers, that we also need a methodological base in the future, and literature and collaboration with universities. It's everyone who wants to make progress, whether they want to develop. I think this board, I'm gonna do it again, did it very well, and I'm happy. I think we can do it much better in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15923	Thank you. Mr. Chikiriz, please sign in one more time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15924	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, SPO and DHSS, in support of the defence strategy and security strategy, supported the annual plan for the use of our security forces in international peace operations, and that will be this time. What has particularly motivated me to report to this discussion today is the public opinion of everything that has cost our country a great deal in the past 23 years. It is a few comments by military-political analysts that certainly have a major impact on the creation of opinions and public opinion and which experience the state in the way the state of the Middle Ages was organised, where the borders were clearly established, where there were clear findings, where there was no outside world, where there were no major forces, where there was no international community, small countries did not take care of the international environment and all the challenges that threatened them. I think any such way of thinking should be given an adequate answer. For what? If the members of our security forces will influence the prevention of secessionism of Mali, many of the so-called “Secessionisms. ” The experts say yes, we are well-known experts in defending secessionism. Pandan is pretending to be our current problems, that we haven't managed to preserve our secessionism, and imagine we need to defend secessionism in some country, so even Mali doesn't qualify as an African, but an Asian country. Secondly, it is being negotiated that our armed forces are not qualified to fight organised crime and that we have a lot of problems with organised crime, so we should first solve our problems and then go to Mali. Then, that we have nothing to look for in the fight against terrorism, etc., that's the job of others. Before I reach the final conclusion that, as a parliamentary group, we will vote for this decision, I will say at the shortest that from the point of view of the Middle Ages philosophy, this opinion can be accepted. However, definitely, Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, I think the new government, too, have respected and respected relations in the international community, aware that these are not relations that do not concern us, that these are relations that directly affect our destiny. The SPO and DHSS also considered in the 1990s that we should fully respect the attitude of forces in the international community, that we have hearing about the environment, about trends in the world, to be absolutely aware of what Perestroika means in the great Soviet Union, which means the withdrawal of the Soviet Union from Eastern and European countries, the destruction of the Berlin Wall, etc. It is obvious that our state leadership did not then reflect relations in the international community and this paid a huge price. If a huge price has been paid, we do not want Serbia to repeat in the future the mistakes of its recent past and what is truly commendable for this government is that no single mistake has been made, and there have been major mistakes in our recent past, it has not repeated so far, and in terms of this kind of policy it has the full support of our political parties. A year and a half ago, there was an armed rebellion in northern Mali, making up 10% of the population of 15 and a half million. However, after the association of several armed forces, there was an association of three Islamic groups that took control of northern Mali and threatened to take over the capital. Small is one of the few countries on the African continent that has relatively developed democracy for the continent until 2012, but apparently their government and military were not ready to respond to the challenge and they warned the international community. The international community responded through its authorities to the crisis in Mali by making two resolutions by the UN Security Council, with 15 leaders from the region around Mali making a decision to send 3,300 members of their armed forces to assist the Malian government. France sent 500 soldiers to the central part of Mali, bombed its four aircraft camps to train terrorists in northern Mali. On that occasion, a French pilot, killed and French soldiers died. Another question arises – what is the interest of France to engage in such an adventure, to kill their soldiers, etc.? Well, the protection of France, the protection of France's interest, as is our interest in protecting Serbia's interests and improving our image in the international community. We have also seen in recent negotiations in Brussels that just the participation of our members of the military and police in international military missions has contributed significantly to improving Serbia's international image and that we are otherwise experienced by those who have a major impact on our destiny. For what? We need to be solid in fighting common risks. If terrorism is something that all democratic countries of the world are fighting, then Serbia must contribute. In this case, very modest, because we will direct 13 of our soldiers to train Mali's armed forces to fight secessionism. I say, their government, which caused by some military coup in 2012, in April of the month, was not ready to respond to all these challenges. Now, what is the key conclusion of the international community? If the international community does not intervene and Mali does not establish control over its entire territory, it may in the future become one of the most important centres for training terrorists and Islamists who already interpret jihad in one extreme way with all its bad consequences. That's exactly Serbia's interest. We must be, if we want to be in the EU, associates, and even on these issues, both with France and Germany and with the EU, because we cannot expect benefits from EU membership and in return give nothing. Will the participation of our members of the armed forces have certain risks? They will, for sure, not only from the risk of safety and risk due to climate change and everything else, but they are prepared to do so, dressed. Another fan who is one of all those who view the philosophy of the Middle Ages as a modern state, I would like to say that there are about four and a half thousand members who are ready and who have declared themselves willing to participate in the missions in which our country participates in our database, if I am not mistaken. This means that the principle of volunteering is fully respected, the principle of expertise, and on the other hand, besides political benefits, members of the Serbian Army will also have a personal, material statistics. Therefore, what was a SPO and DHSS policy, which has really been denied for a long time, and that's why we wore this cross of traitors, foreign mercenaries, etc., in these days, in this part of which I was talking, is experiencing full satisfaction. The SPO and the DHSS don't want to go back into the past and go back to the circle of who was when, what kind of opinion he had. I think it's the task of all of us to get out of these mistakes of the past the best for our country and to completely turn to the future. In this part of Serbia is on its way. In this part, we will always be, no matter what we are the opposition party. With this attitude we support not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia in this segment of its operation and the Army of the Republic of Serbia, we support Serbia in strengthening its external security, because, let's not forget, terrorism is not an internal sovereign matter of a country. Terrorism has long received international character. The terrorist attacks exposed the world's largest countries, from the United States, from the Russian Federation, we almost had one major terrorist act in Turkey. The fight against extremists is not a battle that can be fought in modern conditions of life by a single state. It is primarily a common struggle of the international community. The UN Security Council Resolution is fully respected in this part. We did not plan to use our forces to predict that members of our armed forces are going to Mali, because the situation in January of this year has worsened dramatically, that this is an emergency decision that, although not foreseen, the National Assembly can make. That is why MPs SPO and DHSS, not because of Mali's interest, not because of the international community's interest, but primarily because of Serbia's interest, because of its external protection, because of the improvement of Serbia's international and legal position, because of turning a new list in the new policy we have since the founding of political parties in the voting day, will support such a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15925	Thank you. MP Gjorge Kosanić, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15926	Dear Ministers, Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a two-point debate on the agenda or two proposals, and this proposal for a decision on the participation of a member of the EU military and security forces mission in Mali and the second, no less important decision – Report of the Security Service Control Committee on the work of the Security Service for 2012, with a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the report. At the very beginning, I will say that the JS parliamentary group in voting day will support the proposal for this decision. I will put the accent in my presentation today on the proposal for a decision on the aforementioned mission in Mali. You will allow me at the very beginning to state the basic reasons why the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this proposal for a decision on the participation of troops in Mali. On the one hand, the vote of this decision allows members of the Serbian Army to participate in the mission mentioned, which is not provided for by the annual law of use of the Serbia Army for 2013. On the other hand, the use of the Serbian Army in the EU Mission to Mali, the Republic of Serbia, is placed in the order of states that actively participate in the preservation of peace and security in the world, as an equal factor. Also, participating in future activities has proven the need for consistency and foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which advocates resolving all disputes peacefully, respecting international law and other generally accepted standards in international relations, as well as strengthening the role and capacity of international community institutions and ultimately, by participating in multinational integration, the Republic of Serbia fulfils internationally accepted obligations of the Republic of Serbia towards the UN and the EU. Speaking of the Malian mission, this certainly isn't the only mission we're taking part in. She certainly came last. But the members of the Serbian Army, to remind you, have been participating in these missions since 2007, and at that time we had only 17 members of the army. This is a different picture now. I will later say how much we will have in this year, but first, to say that in addition to this mission we will participate in UN missions in Congo, Libya, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Cyprus, as well as in the Middle East, and so will members of the military participate in peacekeeping operations under the UN's stand-by arrangement, as well as in the EU Security Forces Training Mission in Somalia, this will be done in Uganda. We'll also have a military mission in Somalia, it's a naval force and it's called "Atlanta" against pirates. As for the members of the MUP, here to say, they'll be on that continent, 475 people. They will participate in UN peacekeeping operations in Libya, Haiti and Cyprus, as well as in a civilian crisis management mission. Now we're coming up with that item, how many military and police officers are involved in these peace operations and how planned it is this year. It will take up to 475 members of the military and the MUP, or should I say more specifically, 15 members of the MUP will participate in these operations. A special framework is obtained if we say that this year we will also have female members of blue helmets, as regards Serbian military forces. For these operations this year, 1.1 billion dinars or around 10m euros are allocated. I must say that this is not only separated from the Serbian budget, but part of the UN's funding, so that, specifically from the defence ministry's budget, 755 million go from the UN 355 million dinars or 160 million go to soldiers' salaries, and the rest goes to equipment and insurance for soldiers, more specifically our blue helmets. We need to be here now on the one hand to be honest and say that we are much more worth participating in UN-sponsored peacekeeping operations. There's no charge here, and it would be good if we just took part in those operations. However, because of the country's credibility, I say, the costs are being put back on track at the moment. It's very important to participate in these operations both for credibility and for safety. I'll just say that the aforementioned mission in Mali is important for safety, because you all know that in Mali, the Alkaida Center is for North Africa. On the other hand, speaking of all of this, in favour of participation, we become an active factor in the preservation of peace in the world. In particular, speaking of the Malian Mission, it is envisaged that up to 13 members of the military participate in the mission mentioned and are instructors of training and medical staff. They would be engaged in training military security forces in Mali to train them to restore Mali's territorial integrity, but also to fight terrorism, secessionism and organised crime. We are now coming up with a very important item, to say that members of the Serbian Army will not participate in military operations. They'll even be stationed in that part that's under the full control of Mali's regular forces. This operation is also their engagement made exclusively in order to carry out training. The mission in Mali will last 15 months and the projected funds will be 75 million dinars. Now we come to the fact that there are often certain risks involved in operations like this. I must say that the military business itself carries certain risks, and as for the risks to which the members of the Serbian Army will be exposed in this operation, I must say that these are controlled risks. It is about climate risks, it is known what conditions are in Mali, from various diseases, but also about forces, those irregular, which are present in that country. Again, I say that these are controlled risks, and on the other hand, I must say, the good preparation of our military forces, which is doubtless and the experience of previous missions, is in favor of doing this mission without a problem. Also, since 2011, on the very ground, the Serbian Army, i.e. Serbia's military command units are fully compatible with modern procedures that rule on the ground on these missions. Our procedures are different, but we are fully adaptable to modern standards, which is very important. Is there any interest in missions like this? I must say that at the Centre for Peace Operations of the Serbian Army there are about 4500 members of the army, one significant piece of information. On the other hand, they are at the same time ready to travel on missions like this. What we need to say here is that the more the army members who go to such a field, the faster they advance in service. The other thing, they're more educated, and we need to be honest, and the money's not negligible. When we talk about money, I have to say that officers or officers get when they're in the field and up to three times as much pay as they pay in Serbia. So, for a number of reasons I mentioned, and I wouldn't go into details anymore. I just want to say that the JS parliamentary group will support in the voting day that the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in the Malian mission, and on the other hand no less important decision, which I have not talked about, on the report of the Security Control Committee, carried out surveillance of the work of the Security Service for 2012, with a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15927	Thank you. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15928	Madam Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the chairman of the board, Mrs. Joksimovic, this is, at least since I've been in the Assembly for the first time in ten months, the Assembly is considering and adopting any report by any committee or any long institution, body or even those elected by the Assembly. I think it is very important to define ourselves as a Assembly that we are doing this regularly in the future, not only when it comes to this committee, but we are pleading on the report, not just the Committee of the Assembly, because it is in office, and I think that we will strengthen the control function of the Assembly. Today we have on the agenda a report from the Security Services Control Committee and I will look back on it. In the structure of the national security system, the security-intelligence system is the basic link made by the security services – BIA, VBA, VOA, to remind, as well as the Bureau of Coordination in the role of harmonising the work of this entire system, which is a united subsystem of the common national security system. The assembly also exercises control and democratic civilian control over the national security system in the broadest sense. In the past, it has done so through a single Committee on Defence and Security, and now we are doing it over two committees, including the first time a committee has been formed just to control the work of the Security Intelligence System, that is, the work of the Security Service. From that angle today, we are considering this committee report. At first, I would like to express my commendation for delivering reports and putting them on the agenda of the Assembly. In some ways, this is a report by the board covering, I would say, by society the most diverse, not the most important, but the most important problem, just because this area represents a very delicate alignment and intertwination of what we call transparency, i.e. intertwining public and secret, and wherever there is secrecy there is a collision with democracy and everywhere where there is a secret objectively exists and greater possibilities for abuses. This society, if we count earlier and in the former state, has a very ugly experience with it from a few decades ago, or from the 1960s. I'd like to point out about the report, not because apriors I want to criticize, but because there's not enough experience, as they said, and I don't think so, I'm going to point out some shortcomings in it. First, the report bears the title of surveillance, not oversight. I ask and suggest that it be corrected because it remains as a document, and we did not form this committee to monitor it once, but to monitor the work of this security-intelligence system, or security service. On page 12 of the report, the Committee stresses that it has not carried out surveillance, or work visits to security services. It's a key committee position for me, a key grade, and I want to say an honest and brave saying, because no one can do good unless they admit they didn't do something. The other thing is why, and I'll talk about it later. It wasn't done due to lack of internal, I would say, conditionally to call an internal act providing conditions, prescribing and determining how surveillance is carried out in action. But I can't understand one thing. The committee responded to this, so the draft act group was formed more than six months ago. The deadline was to come up with a proposal in February, and we don't have that proposal until today. Even in a very explicit statement from the board, the report said they had not yet brought it, this is the fifth month, a surveillance plan for 2013 due to lack of the act. I fully understand that this act should exist in order to adopt the work plan. Also, no rules of procedure have been made, which is why the decision, rather than the rules of procedure, has been made on holding the closed sessions of this committee for the public. In doing so, it is completely unclear to me what the public means in this case. Is it a violation of the business and legal right of all MPs to attend meetings of all committees of their choice? Yes, but that doesn't mean that the board is wrong about what he did, but that means that we need to bring the Rules of Procedure into line with it. The Committee's 2012 work plan was only brought in on October 26th and, by the way, only to mention, so please correct it, it is simply untasty to stand in the work plan for 2012, the first point is to adopt the work plan. Don't do that. The first session of the board was held on July 24th and stands, quote – no deputy board president has been elected. Why? Or it should have been said that he wasn't even chosen and that he wasn't chosen. This gives you the impression that there's been some kind of conflict on the board, which is why no vice president was elected, and it was on the agenda that he was elected. I don't think so, probably. Well, I'm asking that in that case, since the document remains, you're correcting it. Besides this, there are a lot more small things, but I'd like to take a look at the good side of this report. First of all, the report is that I have in mind what someone here mentioned, that the Committee in this configuration and this profile and the Committee only for the supervision of the work of the Security Service exists for the first time, so in this sense there is no experience, and in so far as I think that the work of the Committee is so far and reported, alone, the need to create and write the conditions and modes of supervision and control in continuity, as well as analyses and assessments through discussion, evaluations of the work of the service. It is indicated by the Committee on the Need for Innovation, i.e. the Amendment to the Law on the Fundamentals of Service Arrangements, which is very important to me, that I, with both hands, approve it and support it, as well as the need for some new regulations. On page eight of this report, it states that the Committee has submitted a bill to the Assembly amending the Law on the Foundations of Service Arrangements. It doesn't stand when it's delivered, and it doesn't stand much less, and I'm interested, which is why, because I think that this is one of the things that is among the many that we have put on the agenda here, should have been entered into the agenda of some present congregation. Then, it seems to me that good working relations and co-operation and a pathway have been established for an even better co-operation with independent state bodies, which is extremely important to me. But not the service with other bodies and institutions, such as the Ministry of Finance, because one, in my opinion, pointed out, is a major problem in the essential matter of service work, which is, as you have seen, that the Ministry does not want to accept the Committee's initiative, and it has to be regulated in other ways, that the budget of the service cannot be shown in particular without detecting the weak points of service and disabling their successful work, i.e. to reveal some secrets, but to show itself in the total amount. Also, the report says, and it is also an important thing that needs to be resolved urgently and quickly, which is a lack of understanding by public telecommunications operators, which makes it impossible to work significantly, a significant segment of the security service. Much more can be said about what is good in this report and the work of the Committee, but I would like to focus on what should be done in the future. This report and he, among other things, and we have pointed out this once again, points to the need to generalise, to provide better working conditions and serve the Committee itself. Madam President has said some things about the conditions in which the sessions are held, some things shouldn't have been said here, but I don't think they're still good and the right conditions. Secondly, as soon as possible, the modernisation of the entire national security system, and firstly to access the amendments and additions to existing basic and accompanying laws and regulations of the National Security Strategy, from the Law on the Fundamentals of the Service, the Agency Act. When I mention agencies, the question is whether or not it's the right name for these security services, I'm talking about them as security services, and I'm talking about them all the time, and I don't think they should be evened out with tourist agencies, and I don't know who else, at least by name. It is also necessary to bring some new regulations, i.e. regulation, to regulate the legal space that covers the widest, I would say the scope of the national security system such as the authorities of the state administration and institutions responsible for the judiciary, education and scientific action, environmental protection, citizens' protectors, local self-government bodies, private security entities, which is very important, civil society organisations, media, more importantly, legal persons. They all contribute to achieving the objectives of national security, and they all form in the broadest sense a system of national security. It is important to say here, and I point to this very empty space unregulated, that through these two committees concerning supervision and functions, the oversight of the Assembly through these committees, that these two Committees on National Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Service Control we are just controlling the work of that one and the other Ministry and Security Service, and everything else remains uncovered when it comes to function, the control function of the Assembly. This shows the space now, whether the Assembly should form another committee that would cover that space, and I think that decision should only be made when I discussed exactly what I was talking about earlier. It is very important that the Committee in the surveillance of the security intelligence system does not forget the Bureau for the coordination of services and co-operation with it. In no word is mentioned here, and the Service Coordination Bureau is exactly a segment, or most important segment of the Security Intelligence System. I would point to something else to the Committee, I think it would be good to pay attention to the monitoring and control of the BIA in the next period, to the achievement of its function, which is contained in that second sentence – information affairs. We know this very well, and I think it's very ghastly, and in some habit of being baptized, so we don't often understand as ordinary people whether it's another media or what it is to collect data, and to say very directly, what the world knows and what it is to actually informing. I know it is a more delicate activity than security in this agency, so it is easier for the Committee to monitor the security function than it is for intelligence, but I think we need to find ways and make it possible for the Committee, these are the conditions that those in the report have spoken of and which I have mentioned very delicately. (President: Time) Just a moment, I would like to say in the end, that the PUPS Group will vote in favour, or accept this report for the reason of what I have mentioned two times, that the Committee has not yet had enough experience in the work. Here's Mr Popovic, I'm sorry he left, said he needed to collect experience from abroad. (President: Thank you, Mr Kovacevic...) ( b) Just literally two sentences. I mean, the advice to the Committee that we have a very great experience from decades of work and what services have been going through, the decades of work by the board of directors of the service, and we have them for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15929	Thank you. Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15930	Thank you, Madam Chairman. So, this report wasn't filed here to get anyone's panigirics and praises, and especially not from, what's called, the UPS, and I thank you for your active participation in everything you've said, but I'm congratulated by the way you interpreted the shortcomings of this report. I am limited because, when I do something, I expect from all my colleagues in this House, I am previously well informed, and I prepare very well to know what I am talking about and how I speak. So, the first thing you said and I thank you for, if you're going to adopt a report, but if these are the reasons you won't, I'm asking you not to adopt it, because it's really on the verge of rudeness. So on the verge of being insolent about carrying out false things. First, you said this report was written to show that there is not enough experience, so come on, I can respect it, and each of the members of this committee will respect it. You're talking about the surveillance, and you should be doing surveillance. This report was written, therefore, on surveillance carried out during 2012. Executive surveillance isn't just direct surveillance. The surveillance carried out also covers what is indirect surveillance through regular and semi-annual reports of all agencies which fall under the authority of the Security Control Committee. So, indirect surveillance is done. What we, as you say, acknowledge as our lack, which is not our lack but our lack, unfortunately all previous ones who were in this assembly who did not take care that direct supervision of the security services is carrying one new and needing a new legal regulation, or a business or whatever you want. Therefore, under direct supervision during this period of the report in question, it was indeed not carried out. And we cited it as our obligation. Keep going. You say that it is incredible, or an MP Kovacevic, that it is amazing that the closed sessions for the public, in this case, violated the right of the MPs to attend meetings of different committees. I would ask MP Kovacevic to take a closer look at the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in particular from 230 to 233, which are very precisely regulated in a special way, specifically established by the Committee on Security Control, in which not only do the other MPs not have the right to attend, but also the deputies cannot attend the Committee's meetings at the same time, if members are present. So no one's rights are violated. We were just following the rules of the Rules of Procedure. Thank God that some of the rules of the Rules of Procedure speak of the way we work, even though that, I agree with Parliamentarian Kovacevic, is not enough. So MP Kovacevic says, a task force that has not done its job in time. I'm very sorry that you didn't listen to me at first, but here I am addressing myself directly again, you have the right to remind me, I don't know if it's too much desire, and too little initiative and serious work for some MPs to get acquainted with the right data, whether it's indifference to hear the representative, or the rapporteur, in this case, it was me, and I was just at the beginning, and I said that I wanted to further inform the MPs about things very important that didn't enter the report, which were at the same session when the report was proposed, and adoption, i.e. 29 March of the current year, and this is an internal decision on the direct way of controlling the security service, as well as a work plan for 2013 adopted. In the 2013 work plan itself, these are all documents available to every MP in this assembly, and especially those who plead to deal with this very, as the MP said to the delicate matter, a meeting of the Committee members with the Director and employees at the National Security Council Office and the protection of classified information and the establishment of permanent forms of co-operation, point 5 for May-August 2013. Furthermore, MP Kovacevic also mentioned the law proposed by the Committee, and I must remind MP Kovacevic that he was present at the Committee's meeting as an amendment speaker, when amendments and additions to the Security Service Regulation were made, and in this regard he made his full contribution, and all the members of the Committee were truly grateful and, as I recall, was a constructive discussion in this regard. I don't know if I have more time, whether I'm being warned by MPs or if I'm under the impression that they're warning me, but I'd just like to say there's no People's Defence Committee, and MP Kovacevic mentioned some committee on People's Defence and that kind of archaic terminology or terminology is legitimate to the extent that he exists in practice. Since it no longer exists in practice, I would ask for some precision both in guidance and in criticism. I agree with all other things that Kovacevic is about improving the work of the Committee itself, but the Committee's work monitors what it is and the Executive Authority's segment, and we need to see a strategy in which Serbia's security reform will be implemented and that will be very important issues, especially two major chapters in what will be the subject when we start, the subject of EU accession negotiations and when Serbia gets a date, so we will have a lot of work to do in the future. I absolutely accept as chairman of the Committee, and I think I speak on behalf of all the members of the Security Control Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15931	Borisav Kovacevic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15932	I'm a little startled by a show like this. First, the chairman should have warned Mrs Joksimovic, because she used some inappropriate terms here, characterising what I said. Secondly, it was offensive and indirect about the PUPS, because it said, some party or criticism at least of the party, of the PUPS. Secondly, I have shown my respect for this function in the introduction not even from the courtiasy, but in an honest way, speaking to the president of this committee, and now to answer and replicate the tone in which it is pleaded to prove that I am irresponsible and without any knowledge of things, I will show Mrs Joksimovic the very text of the material that they have sent, what I have done, so she will see if I have seriously analyzed it. As far as competence is concerned, it's not my custom, but for information, I'm going to say that I've spent my entire working life on these jobs and the most direct and professional. Therefore, at least someone who has never done these jobs, no matter what ten months he's been familiar with it, can replicate it in this sense. Besides, very incorrectly, some things, I wasn't talking about the Committee of People's Defence, but I was talking about the Defence and Security Committee, which, until yesterday, until her arrival, existed.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15933	Please, time. We're taking care of the weather. Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Joksimovic. Just two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15934	Yes, thank you. So, it's completely incorrect that I've been demeaning the MP's group, the PUPS, and perhaps in an ugly way, I've been correcting myself for not fully citing the party's full name, and in that sense, I may have sounded bad and I can apologize for that, and in no way did I want to offend or demean the representatives of the PUPS parliamentary group. So, if you're receiving an apology, I'd be happy to. It wasn't my intention. On the other hand, as far as competence is concerned, and who's spent where and how much of his working life and that's why he should be more competent than the others, I mean the opposite, or it's already pleonasm. So, on the contrary, I think that just civil and democratic control from all of us MPs, who are different professions, so our vocations, professionally different, we may have a less degree of conflict of interest that, getting to know procedures and ways of working security, seeing some things that don't burden us as people who have been in any way part and members of the security service, we seem even bigger, I won't say competence, because we may not have competence, but in any way I think that, in terms of full democratic civilian control, it should still be those who were not directly involved in the work of the Security Service. That's my principled attitude. Of course, I also allow different thoughts to be considered, and the advisory roles of all those who were members and security services and all other security authorities are always welcome and we are insisting on our committee's further education of all the members of the Committee so that we can in a better and more efficient way oversee the work of the Security Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15935	Thank you. Mr. Kovacevic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15936	I'm not a man who likes to replicate here in the Assembly and take time. At least I think it's similar that we replicate each other. Speaking of my expertise, intricacies, I was forced by Mrs Joksimovic in her own way and performance. But we don't want to take it personal. It's kind of nice of her to apologize in some way for mentioning the PUPS in that context. She had no intention of saying, however, it was such a saying and it looked so like. The fact that it is better to be people who have nothing to do with the profession on the Committee is not important, I did not say it because of being a member of the Committee, but I said it was extorted, because it is necessary for me, Mr Popovic also spoke about it, and I don't know who else, that there is someone on that board who is from the profession. It is necessary, simply to be able to see things that should be done, not because it dictates how to work, etc., because this report shows both the lack and that view. I think it would be faster to gather experience and go into better quality work if there was one there and more than that, as far as that goes. Otherwise, on the violation of the Rules of Procedure, do not underestimate MPs that they have not read the Rules of Procedure. I didn't even say that they were broken, but I said that we should consider that in the context of whether or not the law will be violated and the Rules of Procedure should be corrected, not directly attacked, what they did. On the contrary, I made it very clear that it is not yet enough to work on the right conditions when considering these.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15937	Thank you. The word is by MP Bojan Đuric, just sign up again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15938	Dear Vice-Presidents, ministers, representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here if at least in some way this debate had calmed down between different parties of the ruling coalition, I would not have started this topic. Serbia is a country of such experience, today on May 15th, two days ago it was an old Security Day, so it seems to me that the old spirit of Ilija Cvorovic is still a little bit more in place here, and then it's always kind of disturbing the passion, when it comes to issues of security, services, etc., and in an attempt to at least relax the atmosphere a little bit, I will first talk about the point of the agenda that makes it here today, although I am not quite clear with what kind of raid or explanation of foreign ministers, Mrkic, namely the decision to use a Serbian Army member in the EU mission in Mali. Just to clarify one thing, Mrs. Kovac, you treat Mrs. Joksimovic as an act promoter, so she has the right to speak for a little while longer or not, it doesn't matter to me. Unfortunately, Mr. Mrkic spoke so briefly, he did not get involved in the debate, that I think that we can compensate that time in the part where Mrs. Joksimovic speaks, but only for other MPs. I wish, Mr. Grouchy, that you had spoken at the very beginning longer, and then, in this first part of the debate, you might have provided some additional information, answered some questions from the MPs, because I think that this discussion would be much more useful then. You, unfortunately, seem to me also to be some kind of reluctant representative of the government today at this session, it is quite clear that it is only natural and normal for the government here to represent, say, the Minister of Defence on this matter or some other senior official of the government, mainly limited to what is the formal explanation of this decision, without further elaborated political, diplomatic, security circumstances in which we should make this decision and possibly some other decisions, which I would believe, would be more useful for this country. You're the foreign minister, so I expected that kind of engagement from you. To avoid any dilemma, at the very beginning, LDP MPs will vote for the adoption of this decision, as we have in the past few years, and when there has been no broad consensus in this Parliament on the participation of military and police officers in international missions, we have voted for all similar decisions. It is the principled political position of the LDP. For many reasons, we believe that for this country, and then for the institutions of the military and the police, it is very useful for our representatives to participate in these missions. To be even more direct, there are often discussions here about the price of missions like this. The price of the Malian mission because of our citizens, someone had already talked about it, spoke about an estimated 700,000 euros. I think that every euro has been used on our soldier in Mali or that every soldier who will be in Mali or in any other mission around the world is much more useful to this country, much smarter invested money than, say, a euro or a dollar that we have spent almost a year on a rather pointless mission and engagement, say Mr. Jeremic, who is in some way an officer of your ministry, or your special advisor, who is trying, apparently unsuccessfully, to convince us to chair the world. So for me, this is one of the most efficient and best mechanisms, so to speak, and our diplomacy and the improvement of our country's overall and regional and international positions, and therefore LDP, among other things, will vote for this engagement of our troops. Why did I say at the outset that I was sorry that you didn't try, first of all as foreign minister, that you might be talking about other aspects? Everyone, it seems to me, in the current course of the debate, and representatives of the ruling parties and some opposition parties, for their reasons, which are primarily a matter or their political beliefs, the political orientations of their parties or the issue of fleeing from perhaps unpopular issues in the public and avoid talking about a broader security context, and the Liberal Democratic Party, I remind you, in any such debate, insists on it. I'm interested in your opinion, Mr. Mrkic, you're the head of diplomacy of this country, would all of those positive effects of such missions that you, or the Government, speak of in the light of this decision, perhaps be better, larger, more effective, more efficient that Serbia would finally give up this concept of military neutrality, which, in our confidence, is deeply unsustainable? You and in your explanation insist on the UN and the EU, which, among other things, also have one significant function of building or preserving peace at regional and global level. There is not a word about NATO, although it is quite obvious, it is clear to everyone that in the modern world, NATO as a security factor or as a political factor and a military security factor plays an inevitable role. You were in Romania yesterday or a few days ago. Romania is one of the countries that, for example, has built a significant part of its integrity in international relations and credibility in European integration, crossing that path that is now just ahead of us, with participation in such missions, but also with some other countries, and a much stronger connection to a military bloc in that old or old sense of words. Why, Mr. Mrkic, these days I especially think you have an additional obligation to talk about the relationship between Serbia and NATO? For weeks, months have already been debated in our public. It is one of the security risks quite obvious for the country at this time, on Kosovo, on Serbia's position towards Pristina, on the relationship, for example, Serbs in Kosovo or Serbs in northern Kosovo according to agreements that have either been reached in Brussels in some way. I'm interested in your opinion as foreign minister, you're not a formal party man, but you represent the policy of this government, do you think, for example, that our position at this time, or the position of Serbs in northern Kosovo, would be better if Serbia decided not to participate only in such international military missions, but also to go in political and then military terms towards NATO? I do. Today we are doomed to listen to political leaders, party leaders talking about whether or not they believe NATO. We are dealing with politics and we represent some citizens, and I don't think we should convince them on the basis of whether or not we believe in anything, but on the basis of what is quite clear, that Serbia would have a much greater impact on both its security and the security of the Serbs in Kosovo that they are in NATO structures, not that the president of the government of this country between a visit to the Silicon Valley and another attraction in America, talks with Joseph Biden, or that the first prime minister of the government is trying to discuss with the US Secretary of Defence in breaks with the US to ensure that America does not withdraw NATO troops from Kosovo or to make a negative decision in relation to or not to agree to form a Kosovo army. These are all questions to which, I think, Mr. Mrkic, you owe the answer to both this Parliament and the citizens of Serbia. Without it, this will be one of our routine decisions. Thirteen soldiers, we'll bring it up to the story of whether they'll make better money. Of course he will and of course he will return to the country more dressed. Of course, then these experiences will be passed on to their colleagues in units, or organisations where they are engaged, but imagine how many dozens or hundreds of times this level of newly adopted knowledge, promotions, co-operation would be greater if we were not just one of the small, minority participants in actions or UN or EU operations, than that we are within NATO alliances? You're the head of diplomacy. One of the arguments to safeguard this concept of military neutrality is, as far as I know, the fact that otherwise one part of our national sovereignty would be passed on to another organisation, and above all to the most powerful decisions in it. Mr. Mrkic, you and I both know that I am taking part in this EU mission, as well as in all missions, say, the UN, we are transferring much more of the national sovereignty than we would have transferred if we were a NATO member. We don't have much choice when the UN, in accordance with its charter rules, makes decisions on international missions. We can accept them, or we can join the UN, or we can be expelled, as they have decided in some stages. There are different rules in NATO, and I'm sorry we don't take advantage of that opportunity today. When in a few years it becomes quite clear that Serbia will not be able to move further on the path of reform, nor on the path of EU integration without NATO membership, it will be too late, there will be a lot of lost time, as many lost times have passed since other topics today. The question is what international circumstances will be, Mr. Grouchy, if they want us then. In both international relations and in these integrations and in these missions, you're worth as much as you're important to them and as much as they want you, otherwise you're a boring country, and since we're a country that will never be or will never be because we're in such a field or in such an area, then I'm afraid we'll be threatened again and we'll be importers of safety again, as you usually say. In addition to these exotic countries that we talk about very often here, it would be good to remember every time that we are a country in which or at whose borders or in the immediate environment are some kind of international troops for 22 years, Mrkic. It's just that part of the story about who slept over and who didn't sleep through the fall of the Berlin Wall. Of course not all of Serbia has not slept through the fall of the Berlin Wall, but if many of you today realize that this happened 20 and a few years ago, then I ask you all to understand that with the fall of the Berlin Wall, the international security and military order has been brought down and that since then all European countries that, for example, want to become members of the EU or Western European integration, are passing the parallel path of NATO integration with EU integration. I don't think you can convince anyone that Serbia can reach the EU using another alternative or bypass route. The sooner we figure it out, the easier it's gonna be for all of us, the lower our costs, the greater our benefits. Let's try to locate resources efficiently and use them once, and I guess time is the most important resource. As far as this report is concerned, I won't talk much about it. As the Committee representative said, the LDP representative, party leader Nenad Milic, actively participates in the work of this committee. He's coordinating, or he's head of a task force working within him. I'm not going to talk about it in particular. Of course both the Committee and the procedures we're talking about are new. There's a lot of problems. This debate, which we had just attended, seems to me to be speaking in a convincing way about it. Do not slow down Mr Kovacevic and the expertise and competence and appreciateing the specific situation he was brought into, so I suppose he stressed it in particular, yet I do not think that this alone can be a reason for a special position in such issues, nor against it. In fact, this is about democratic and civil control whose whole essence is that it is done in this situation by directly elected representatives of citizens, not by someone who comes from the structures themselves. I accept there have been different models in the past. I'm not sure they turned out to be right. I don't mind the agencies being called agencies. I think that the parallel and comparison with the tourist agencies is exaggerated, and I think that the organisation in tourism is a very honorable and good job and that it should not belittled in this way by the people who work in it. It's perfectly acceptable to call themselves an agency. Secondly, you know, Mr. Kovacevic, many "falsed nominate" do not harm the mislabelling. Many other things are called names in this country, and they are not. Let's say the Pension Insurance Fund is called the Fund, and it's not a fund, it's a flow boiler. There are dozens of such examples, so I don't think we have to be too strict when we're talking about agencies. Just one question. I admit that it is possible that I have not been sufficiently directed into this matter and I do not plead, as Mrs Joksimovic says I am doing so in detail, but I am not sure that she had to find in this report this way, as I would say, "exemplary cauze" to list some public telecommunications operators with whom there are ambiguities, or problems in law enforcement, i.e. allowing legal interception and retention of data. I understand that there are problems and they're not the only problems, there's been a lot of talk about it in public, but I'm afraid you've chosen one way that's unacceptable. These are commercial entities. They have a position, a reputation on the market, etc. So, you could have done all this without giving their names. If Mrs Joksimovic has already defined yourself to name names, then it cannot be an example of work, but must be exhaustive. I'm not going to read, of course, which are the operatives, but you end up saying-- and others. This means, I suppose, that some are not listed and I think it was simply not a fair approach, that you have put different operators in different positions depending on whether or not you have explicitly listed their name in this report. I just think it's something to think about and in future work to avoid these situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15939	Please, Jadranka, just to give priority to the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15940	I thank you for your interesting comments, thank you for voting in favour of the government's proposal. I am absolutely certain that I have been trying to be engrossed in order for MPs to have more time to declare what the content of our proposal is. I wasn't talking about all aspects of foreign policy, because I don't think it's on the agenda. I know that a meeting of the foreign policy committee will be held soon, where we will be able to discuss all aspects of foreign policy. It seems to me now from this stream that as much as I've spoken and I've been shorter, and I've said a lot longer that it wouldn't affect the latter stages. So I don't think that would define your thinking, the length of my speech. I repeat only out of courtesy I was as core as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15941	The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15942	Just a pro for what Mr. Djuric listed as a deficiency and what I should answer. The Security Control Committee's report was carried out in surveillance of the work of the Security Service for 2012 and a public document is defined. That's why he can't contain all the details that concern him and that fall under what are the details of the public's closed session. The direct reference of telecommunications operators by name came into the report only because as chairman of the Committee, I asked a public parliamentary question at the end of December last year, precisely the problem that we, as members of the Committee, faced in a conversation with agencies or security services. Since this was asked as a parliamentary question to which I received the answer, I felt that it could enter the report, and all other operators, I would remind you that there are about 400 operators in this country, some of which are not so relevant because of a small number of users, here are those who have not, while some have fulfilled their legal obligation after the adoption of this report, but some of the major operators have not fulfilled their legal obligation, and others have therefore been mentioned because of a small number of users. That's why it came in. I accept the suggestion, but I say it was simply a topic and a parliamentary question and an answer received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15943	The word is made by MP Borislav Kovacevic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15944	I decided to look back on something Mr. Djuric said with no evil intention whatsoever. From what he said and from what Mrs Joksimovic had replicated just before me, there is the impression that we have some opinion that if someone worked in security structures that the apriori is carrying nothing democratic within them. I was the only one in the discussion today in my presentation to mention that this issue is delicate and socially because, in its nature, it clashes with democracy and therefore needs to be very careful and do everything in its power not to truly touch and reduce space for democratic relations and approaches. The other thing I wanted to say was that yesterday I didn't leave those services but 23 years ago and I didn't carry anything democratic in me, I guess I'd have learned democracy by now. The third thing, I only mentioned on the occasion in the hint of whether to remain the name of the agency or not. Interestingly, we hold on to this side rather than to many other things that I've talked about and that are far more important for this society and for everything else. I didn't express my position to change that name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15945	The word is from MP Bojan Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15946	First, let me answer to Mr. Kovacevic. I haven't said for a moment that there's nothing democratic about you. We call it spin today, I don't know what it was called in your time in those departments, but obviously you're very skilled at it. Now you're practically me and I think some other people here have accused me, and it's not a small number of people with a history like this, that all those people who have worked in one way or another for those services have nothing democratic in them. That, Mr. Kovacevic, I didn't mean it at any point. I'm sure you agree that we still have too much experience or too much undemocratic experience, regardless of what these people have done their jobs and, esteeming their expertise, let me be particularly careful when it comes to it. Mrs Joksimovic, I understand your argument, but I still think it was necessary to publish all the names in the sense that matters to us here. It doesn't matter if someone has tens or hundreds of thousands of users or much less. If we are talking about the danger of accessing a conversation or interception of communication, it does not matter how large the operator is. You can see that the threat of a pot can be filled with some explosive means and domestically, so that's not particularly important. Mr. Grouchy, I appreciate you wanting to be a nugget, to make it possible for the MPs to talk more. You're not that often in parliament, but I just remind you of the business provisions. No matter how much you speak, we have our five hours of time and some additional time that is set, so that you cannot in any way damage or shorten the time that lies ahead. I encourage you to take your word for it further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15947	The word is made by MP Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15948	Just for a little while, these are the things I have to answer as president of the board. An operator who had the largest number of users, 700,000 users, and who as such failed to fulfil his legal obligation, followed the parliamentary issue and started this report, did not implement it until the end, but began to implement its legal obligation to obtain all technical conditions for the legal interception of communication. I think it's a good example, and in that sense, if there was a reason and a reason to mention it, the reason for the reson was a fruit. I suppose some kind of prevention will also be able to refer to those who have a much smaller number of users. That's why I don't think I acted irresponsiblely, given that I put it in the report, which all the members of the Committee agreed on. As far as competence is concerned, I must say that, of course, on this committee, there are not just people who have no knowledge or competence whatsoever. There is also Mr Sutanovac, as former defence minister, who, among other things, co-ordinated the work of these services. There is Mr Nenad Milic, who has experience in the security sector. I really don't think it's bad, but I'm saying that we don't need to relativise, or devalue the importance of those MPs who may not be in their own voice about security, but who in every way have hired in the best way possible and expressed their will and wishes and, above all, I have to mention the element of political will that over this important issue, the social parliament is dealing properly. As far as this controversy is concerned, let me tell you something, for my work as an MP, I answer in that sense to all MPs through this report and trust me to respond to anyone from my own party, so from the Serbian Progressive Party, in the same way that he has unarguedly interpreted what I have signed. It's my right as an MP. I'd hate to see a fight between the ruling coalition imputed to that. That's how I would respond to my colleague from my MP group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15949	Please bring the end of the line. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15950	Thank you, Chairman. I just wanted to look back on it and say that I didn't explicitly say that someone condemns this structure of the people I come from, but that's the feeling I have through the debate so far. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15951	The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15952	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, good day, since it's slowly getting good, because as it started today, we wouldn't even know exactly what the subject is, and in some discussions, at least the first two we've heard, later on, it changed by the same speakers, we'd think that there are no MPs sitting here, but people's subjects. Fortunately, it has changed, so now we can remind ourselves of what exactly, first of all I thank Mr. Kosanić and Kovacevic, who were first serious about the approach, providing accurate information about what is on the agenda today. There are two decisions on the agenda. All those who have spoken, from the representatives of the committee to the other MPs, about the need to amend the Rules of Procedure, are certainly right, because it has already been established that, at any point in time, decisions or proposals of the legislation concerning ratification should be made possible by amending the Rules of Procedure only to vote, unless there is a request of more than 50 MPs to put something on the plenary session, because the decisions resulting from previous obligations of the decision, and in that sense, it is not necessary, because we have seen, today, a whole series of confusion. We have two choices today. One has its promoter, it is the Government, and a proposed representative has been designated. At first, it was the current defence minister, and then the foreign minister, who is present here today and of course, for the adoption of the report was designated rapporteur. In this regard, Article 96 of this Rules of Procedure is restrictive, as the Committee's rapporteur has the right to speak only five minutes per article 1 of Article 2 of the second indent of this article, is unable to explain a whole series of topics, and we have seen today that there is reason to have a cause. I want to thank you first for the tolerance and Mrs. Kovac and the MPs who pointed out that to the ladies who participated in the debate, giving a contribution to tolerance in parliament, not, not, not, to someone wrongly thinking, a drastic violation of the Rules of Procedure, because I don't think it was anyone's intention. It is particularly important because for the first time we are facing each other, and it clearly states in this report of the committee responsible, for the first time we are facing such a committee, with problems that this committee has and precisely states in the report, but also with mentality. You saw at the beginning of today's session an incredible situation for the representatives of the Committee who controls the security services to be supervised. At first, they first thank those who agreed to be supervised, and one of the MPs mentioned it, that we were a little concerned about the Cvorović logic – Đura will forgive you for beating you. But I hope no one had that kind of intention, but we're simply facing a procedure, and this discussion that was just talking about it. One of the definitions of democracy is precisely a clear and precise procedure, and whoever said that security services are contrary to democracy, no, on the contrary, but through clear procedures and we are learning exactly that. Let's go back to what today's agenda points are. I'd go in this order. First, I would like to thank all who, according to the report of the Committee, have made a huge effort, and the Committee President has told us that almost all the members of the Committee, regardless of whether they belong to the position or to the opposition, have been helped to overcome those problems that are possible at the moment and are counted in detail from the lack of a legislative framework, expertise, staff. But we need to be honest and to say openly – and indifference or lack of the seriousness of many parliamentary groups in proposing members. That's what I should have been careful about. I am proud to have been taken care of by the URS parliamentary group. They have proposed an experienced and serious MP, an experienced man, Mr Joseph Shandor, who I suppose will be participating in today's discussion. It should be said openly that not all parliamentary groups have done so, which is why there was a certain noise in the public. But there's something else. I thank you, I think Mrs Joksimovic pointed out at one point, we actually have a huge legacy. In the past six years, as you know, some civilizational fluids of parliament have been completely devastated. We are already in a situation, of course, someone has told Mr. Micunovic in due time, and it seems to me, in that kind of objection, so he told him, well, now those who have cooked something up, but in the past six years, these are different stimuli, so it doesn't have to be understood in that way, but in these councils, they gave up the practice that existed only in one co-operation, which is that, at the head of the Committee on Security, they are the representative of the opposition, which is the basic jurisdiction, which is at the head of the Finance Committee, which is the representative of the opposition, which is the basic courtesy, but we are where we are. Now, this is all in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and it will take us a lot to fix it, and in a particularly difficult situation will be the members of this committee. We saw it today in this discussion, they didn't write it in the report, that's what I'm saying. This was carried out through discussions and committee presidents and members, which is that there is a huge effort, and there is also good co-operation with services in which, as we know, sit and extremely professional, extremely high-quality people, but also, they sit within the legacy of the previous decades, surrounded by personnel from previous decades, habits from previous decades, and part of that habit is in this hall. There are at least two people and I'm one of them, who has clear information about it, because it was within their power. So, within this habit, there was a habit of security services to form political parties of which, of course, some become parliamentary and some do not become, some lose that status. There is, of course, an easy feeling in mentality that you will be controlled by someone you have already controlled. To solve all these inherited problems, there is no need, although it was nice to listen to a part of the debate today, much to be debated, but there will be much more work to be done by this committee, I do not envy anyone who takes it seriously to himself, to do it in the next period. It's just gonna be the first step. If today wasn't May 15th, if it weren't for the country where it is, if it weren't for this room, so many difficult processes, so many complicated issues, I think both of these sessions today would have caused a whole series of abuses, plantings, false qualifications. Thank God it's not like that. As the predecessors introduced the Latin language into this discussion, the quarat demonstration. For one job, to do it seriously, people need to be first. That's what we were talking about. Secondly, I'm a member, when it comes to this committee, that's what we're dealing with, it's what we're going to have to do. It is also a correct honor for those who wrote this report that the problems are openly and clearly indicated, including the dates when some deadlines were, with the assumption that they also pointed out by listing at the price of opening the discussion, as we had just heard, the concrete listing of those who did not adhere to the basic laws. In doing so, when people who know what I'm talking about were sitting here, so the representatives of the VBA, the VOA and the defence minister, at that session, I made it clear that this legal framework is not enough, I pointed out, when it comes to electronic communications, technological opportunities that exist and are available to many of us sitting in this room. That is why it is necessary, certainly, with all the efforts that have been made, I commend them once again, to create, in the next period, through the activities and the Committee, which could be the initiator, but others must be involved, clear procedures and a clear legal framework in order to adopt these reports at plenary sessions, once again I say, to consider these reports, I advocate that the Rules of Procedure should be regulated. Mr. Mrkic, I apologize to you, as well as other MPs, when it comes to the second decision of the Serbian government, which has found itself in a situation where it must, because of the change in the field, urgently propose a decision which is now regulated by a question that has not been regulated by the annual plan. You have to follow two points. I suppose you're both interested, although you're not obliged to follow both of us, but it's correct while you're here. You're a career diplomat, which is positive. I see that today you have to immediately indicate what's positive, what's negative when you're taking out some syntagms. You have experience within what is a state obligation. It is not a question of individual opinions of the Serbian state's obligations to decide on the engagement of our forces in Mali. The proposal makes it clear that all Serbia is obliged to take part. On the other hand, that's why I said career diplomat, you're going to have a lot of understanding for the slips that came in this proposal, I speak language, and that politically could be, as I say, abused today. Someone in the draft decision, for example, wrote that Serbia's goal is to help preserve sovereignty and integrity, prevent terrorists, secessionists in Mali, and that our country, our military, with its experience, will make a major contribution. Let's read this sentence one more time. I don't want to quote her. That would seem hypocritical. Our army in Africa with our experience of what to do with secessionists and terrorists. Let someone take care of it when he puts such sentences into the reasoning of decisions. On the other hand, it is much stronger, much more important and therefore, not only the parliamentary group of the URS, probably all the parliamentary groups or almost all the parliamentary groups, will vote for both of these decisions. It's a much more important tradition. That's what we talked about last time. A tradition of the participation of our troops in these missions. Of course it's better when they're under the auspices of the UN, not just on the basis of a decision, but on the cover of someone else, because it's cheaper. I think one of the MPs, Mr. Kosanic, has precisely stated how much it costs us. Our citizens are sensitive when you say 75 million. They don't even ask what. Every million that's huge. Last time I reminded myself, I'm an airman, and in that sense, the gun was irrelevant to us, as a weapon, but we took it out to get that gun that had the file on it, and there were several of them, that they were in Sinai. So when we had the blue helmets. To this end, tradition and pride for the participation of our army in peace operations or peace missions is strong that both citizens and MPs will always support, independently of the government's obligations, each one of these missions. Since today's discussion indicated that this mission is particularly dangerous for participants, whatever they are led, professionalism, finance, government commitment, hierarchy. I don't need to explain what happened in Mali or in neighbouring countries from the point of view of the organization whose headquarters is in Mali. I don't need to remind you of what happened in France about the French government's decision, what happened in the discussions of many European countries about the idea of their forces participating in the European forces in this mission. It's not right in this way to scare people. We need to remind everyone who doesn't know that. Serbia or earlier Yugoslavia took part in missions like this, and when Yugoslavia was under sanctions, it did not stop for a moment. So there was this huge continuity. Secondly, and when you seem to be in a paradise place, here's exactly the mission that existed in Haiti at the time, you can think wonderfully. A medical team of military experts enjoys Haiti, and then there comes an earthquake, and then there's a bloody disturbance over the dictator's ousting and it suddenly becomes the most dangerous place. This is just part of a military call. You, Mr. Chairman, know that well. Anyone who's a professional soldier, and now only professionals participate in these missions. It's not even formally, as it used to be, when we mentioned it, it's not even formal representatives of the People's Army, it's professionals. They're just doing their job with all the risk of good or bad. I appeal once again to all the MPs of the people, first, to try to preserve this solidarity in the next period, as we have heard today. You have seen how well-meaning Mr. Djuric has also supported the possibility. It is not only because of gender equality, but it is possible to hear from a really competent and informed representative, or the chairman of the board, and beyond the business opportunities to hear detailed explanations, to continue the discussion, and on the other hand to ask that we support everyone together, if possible as soon as possible, to approach the amendments of the Rules of Procedure and to regulate a whole series of issues that have devastated and reputation, but perhaps more importantly, the possibilities of the Assembly to do its work, and there is no democracy other than parliamentary democracy. That's what I wanted to tell you today. Thank you all for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15953	Minister Ivan Mrkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15954	I thank Ambassador Markovic. I just want to make one thing clear. Obviously, it is unclear that we are sending our team in line with the EU mandate. It has been concluded and it has been decided within the EU, what the mandate will look like. We're just getting involved. There is a Security Council decision, and we are involved in what has been described in the EU mandate. The mandate mentions, among other things, the training of Mali's military and security forces to train them to restore Mali's territorial integrity, as well as the fight against secessionism, terrorism, etc. So that's the EU mandate. We participate in this action as described in the proposal of the Government, which I explained in such short terms, which some did not like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15955	Replica, Predrag Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15956	Just to say thank you, Mr. Secretary. I was just talking about mentality, and it just came out of the whole text of the mandate and it was drawn into the context of this sentence, so I said to what extent it could be dangerous from the point of view of mentality, like when we talk about gender equality, we praise our army and we pride ourselves on our army. But you know what? This army, where we stand out today, I'm surprised we didn't mention it, in these missions always, thank God, there are representatives of women, which is a wonderful gender equality, but in the tradition of this army, it's that she refused to receive an order established at the end of the 19th century for courage, because on that medal there was a character of courage, i.e. The character of a woman. It's the same part of mentality, so in these discussions we have to make an account. Thank you, too, for helping us define this clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15957	The word is by MP Sasa Dujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15958	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, since the beginning of the new year, is basically the third time that we have discussed and decided to send soldiers or police officers to peacekeeping missions, which is good, in any case, because peace missions are very important to the international position of a country and so should be watched and the departure of our soldiers to all possible hotspots in which they go to preserve peace. Unfortunately, the legacy of the Serb army, especially from recent history, in the 1990s, by the fall of the SFRY, has come to the point that the Serb soldier, who has indeed been through history only a liberator and defender of his country, has been portrayed as someone who is an aggressor, as someone who has committed war crimes, etc. A great task is currently being given to members of the military and police who are on peacekeeping missions, to return all these false images or distorted images of a Serb soldier and police officer to their place, which is to restore the honor and reputation of a Serb soldier, both in the international community, so that our country can return where it belongs, which is that it has its place in prominent countries that are not aggressor countries. Of course, our soldiers, all 13 soldiers who will go to Mali have the same mission, have the same mission and they are ready for such a thing and I'm sure they will. But in order not to be all ideal, one big risk should be pointed out. It is necessary to highlight the risks of participation in such missions. These are possible injuries, they are possible deaths and it should be openly said that our soldiers professionals are being prepared by professionals and that, in any case, these professionals, in all nearly 500 of our participants in peace missions, have no such kind of injuries, no deaths, thank God, and that such a thing should be endured. The great importance of such a reduced risk is that we do not have any special operational units that are in direct contact with, as is the case here in Mali, with rebels, or with others, but are staff officers, doctors, specialists for one of their own areas, which are largely untapped. We know that an army platoon is being prepared right now, to go as planned to use the army, that one army platoon should leave and be exactly what we wanted to avoid, but unfortunately participation in peacekeeping missions is not just doctors and staff officers, but you must prepare the soldiers yourself for such a thing. Opening the risk issue raises another question. I would now, although it may not be a directly touching topic with this, open the question, and that is a question of legal solutions, when it comes to veterans, because I am a soldier who goes on peace missions falls under the status of veterans, wartime combatants, fighters, families of fallen fighters. The only country created by the collapse of the SFRY, which has no resolved legal basis when it comes to veterans, is our Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, by taking a rifle and going on a peace mission, every soldier becomes a veteran. Going back, getting circumstances, injuries or deaths, he and his family don't have legal solutions. Now someone would say -- they're professionals, the law on the army treats it in some other way. However, the practice says that when someone demobilizes or retires, it is touched by other laws, civil laws, not military laws, and that is exactly the kind of law that is lacking in the Republic of Serbia, because, in force, the law that is retrograded, has become obsolete, it is the law of 1998, when it comes to wartime wartime people, families of fallen fighters, fighters, one word veterans, veterans who belong to all our soldiers and officers who go on peacekeeping missions. All these questions must be resolved systemically. Several times already, whenever the defence minister was here, in the previous assembly and in this meeting, I am apostropheist and stressing the need for the Republic of Serbia to bring several legislative acts, in addition to the Army's plan of use, in addition to the Law on Professional Soldiers, in addition to everything else. We must also take care of those soldiers who have demobilized and those who have retired, to take care of families who have lost their loved ones, to take care of those who may be able to lose their loved ones in peace missions. The simple, legal and systematic arrangement of this matter is absolutely necessary and I think it's been a while for that. In addition to this, there's an evaluation. For the sake of the general public, I will read the assessment of the situation of the EU Mission in Mali. She says, I quote: "The political and security situation in Mali is extremely complex because the central government has not yet established control over the entire territory. The most significant security risk for members of the Serbian Army is the functioning of rebel factions and other threats that are primarily due to the climate factor. Based on the sudden, the involvement of members of the Serbian Army can be considered moderately risky. ". I suppose they're this grade, and I'm sure, given by the experts, which is good anyway. The moderate risk carries certain consequences. This isn't a high risk, but definitely there are some rebels out there, there are some circumstances, there are some problems. The members of our army in this case, fortunately, will have small touch points directly with all the operational actions that they perform or rebelled or governmental structures there, but in some other places and touch points are great and we simply have an obligation to protect these people who go there, but also to protect their integrity when they return to their homeland, no matter what condition they return. In addition, today's debate comes before the Greater European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. Today, the Republic of Serbia is trying to bring down the court's first-degree verdict, which clearly states that the state of Serbia has made discrimination against war veterans, where Serbia's state of affairs is now going to have to set aside around 250m euros from its budget in order to settle obligations towards Serbia's war veterans. I deliberately tell war veterans because it includes both professional soldiers and officers and all those who participated in what is called a war that took place on the premises of the former Yugoslavia and, above all, NATO aggression against Serbs. Unfortunately, the lack of laws on veterans, the lack of laws on our soldiers, adequate laws, and leads to the fact that they all seek their protection from the International Court in Strasbourg. Then we have a situation today that budget users in the Republic of Serbia cannot receive their salaries because they have not met certain conditions prescribed by the Ministry of Finance, and yesterday, the finance minister is clearly, responsibly, and to God, he has also taken my attention. We intend to, i.e. We have a court ruling in Strasbourg that the state must devastate war veterans. Where do we approach this only because of one thing, because we have not seen the fact that according to 400,000 Serbian citizens who participated in Serbia's defence, according to our participants in peace operations, which now has over 500, we have to have systemic and legal solutions? That's what the past government has been talking about, even in my last term, and that's what this government obviously puts under a rug somewhere, counting on all of it to solve itself. Unfortunately, he'll settle himself, but with the court's decision in Strasbourg, and then let the finance minister think he'll find the money for it or some other people will. Anyway, to finish, it's good to be involved in peace missions. We have a lot of problems at home when it comes to soldiers, unresolved housing issues, etc. No wonder for 500 places we have in peace missions over 4,500 professionals. Why? Because they have three times the salary. It's a basic existence. So, a peace mission as a peace mission and peacemaking somewhere in the world is not the primary imperative of a Serbian professional, a basic imperative is to survive a family on such a miserable salary compared to other professionals in the military, and going to a peace mission provides for the existence of all these people. We have to change that all together, and that changes by passing laws. Anyway, I'll support this decision, just like before. As for the other points, which is the Security Control Committee's report, I wouldn't say much, because I think the report itself is sufficient to see a shift in the control of security services, even if such a small shift is significant in the democratisation of our society, especially when it comes to services that in not so long ago have left behind some negative clues when it comes to our social and political scene. To a large extent, their work so far has been a secret to the general public, so for many parliamentarians who have passed laws or controlled such services, their serious operations have also been secret to parliament. In any case, a report like this is correct. Congratulations to the board president on the courage to put this report before parliament. I'll support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15959	Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of the session as soon as possible. In accordance with Article 87(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a regular break of one hour, and we continue our work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Good afternoon. We're going back to work. Who else from the representatives of the parliamentary groups wants a word? He has the word Konstantin Samofalov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15961	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there will be a Mr. Minister, so not to mention him now, the representatives of the Department of Defense, the two decisions that are ahead of us are very important. I will first talk about the proposal for a decision to refer Serbian military members to the EU peacekeeping operation in Mali, a lot of this has been said. Of course, referring to multinational operations is always one subject that is subject to demagogy and abuse. It is the easiest policy to attack and, of course, in Serbia, we were witnesses in years behind us, first of all, when the DS through the then Defence Minister Mr. Tadic and Mr. Sutanovac's last defence minister led this portfolio, that we had very little understanding among the majority of the opposition parties for the need to refer our soldiers to these missions and it was indeed too demagogy. However, I have talked about it in this home on several occasions, the role of the opposition is, not only to criticise, we will always criticise what is not good, but as for decisions that symbolize state continuity, and the question of reference to peace operations, it certainly is, we will always support these processes. In light of this decision, it is written that this mission is moderately risky. Of course it's the most risky operation we're going into. However, we had experience, he talked about it and the representative of the URS, Mr Markovic, and Yugoslavia participated in very dangerous operations for decades behind us and we were proud of it. And in that sense, I would view this decision, first of all, benefits our citizens and Serbia, how much it contributes to strengthening our international reputation, how much it can help us when we talk to our partners from the EU and when we address them for our own problems. How much more credibility and influence we have with them, when we share with them the burden of responsibility, we show solidarity. On the other hand, of course, it's not mentioned here today, we've been undermining it as a very important fact and I don't think it's burned to point it out again. Soldiers on peacekeeping missions are going on a voluntary basis. They're professionals. If anyone in the public has a dilemma about whether or not we should be involved in these activities, let them ask the members of the Serb army, perhaps Mr. Minister can say precisely, but as far as I know from the time the DS led this portfolio, more troops were reported more than there were for these operations, five times, ten times, and that speaks enough of their interest. These are people who proudly carry Serbia's banner, promoting our country. We have through the Serbian army extraordinary capacities, sanity, medics, special units, protection units that are truly for the role model, for example, and what rarely anyone has, and we need to show that. Of course, there may be a problem, but then we should all take the burden and not be demagogues, because this is one state issue and I hope that we will never again have a serious division in parliament when it comes to such important decisions. We need a consensus today on participation in peace operations, especially the EU, in 2007 when we took over, as DS this portfolio, there were only a dozen soldiers in multinational operations, today we have several hundred of them. This is, as far as I know, the first mission that the new government has launched since the beginning, these other missions are the continuation of something we've been doing. But that's very good, too. Thirteen soldiers, someone will say it may have been symbolic and it could have been more, but I think it's very good to start with, and I'm glad that despite the writings in some media, where the potential participation in this operation has been criticised that it hasn't been pressured after all. I'm going to ask one question to the government's representatives. It took us six months to send this medical team and a task force to protect them, I think a call from Catherine Ashton came in about five months ago, that informal talks with EU partners were made about seven months ago. So it took us a lot of time, and in that sense, I'm interested in what the reasons are, because I mean, if we have the ability to react quickly, we should and we should take advantage of it. Of course, I have an understanding, if it took more time to prepare, but in any case, we have to bear in mind that although it is said in reason that the challenges that threaten Mali are, for example, secession, which we cannot say is directly about the Republic of Serbia. Problems, however, are also the challenges of terrorism, organised crime. I'd add illegal migration. The African continent and the events on it have a major impact on Europe's security. Although Serbia at this point may not be the most attractive destination for exporting such threats, with an increase in the standard of living that we all desire in our country, we must certainly count on us to belong to more developed countries that can be attractive to exporting these problems. In that sense, I think we should prepare in time. On the one hand, as I said, we show solidarity with the countries we want to live with in the EU that we expect as citizens a lot. And on the other hand, to make our contribution to the defence of common interests at all times, and not only when it suits us. How important it is to participate in these EU operations is also the fact that we enjoy significant support, let's say, in the EU integration process, which is one of the countries that are and how involved in the resolution of the crisis in Mali. I would like to underline a fact that is very encouraging, which is that for the first time in 2012, the general of the Serbian army was at a meeting of the EU military committee. In this regard, we are presented indeed in the most important forum that the EU has. I hope we get more important participation. First, the participation of the Serbian Army in EU missions took place when the previous government decided to join a mission related to Somalia. This is now the sequel to that story. I really hope that's just one good start. As for the Safety Control Report, I'm especially glad we have a chance to discuss it today. We are in the mandate behind us discussing in the DS of course when we had most, in which way we can make security services more effective. Of course, the legacy in Serbia is very difficult to serve security as in most former communists played one role that is specific. Many of us disagreed with what they did in the past. However, after Friday's changes, serious reforms both in the sector and the entire security sector have taken effect. The reform of the defence system ended very successfully. What's happening right now is certainly a continuous reform of the rest of the security sector, and in that sense we've been thinking about how we can make surveillance more effective. In this regard, I also personally participated in the writing of amendments to the Rules of Procedure that allowed a separate committee with special powers to be formed, which would not only be icaban, but a body with real competences. Of course we can't expect to have immediate extraordinary results today, but it's important that we all stop from this process, and in that sense our two DS representatives who are members of this committee actively participate. As far as I know, they vote for most of these decisions, and I think it's very important that we also have a consensus on this. Citizens, of course, need to know whether the money services they pay them, the money provided by the citizens for the budget, whether those services make them safer. In this sense, this report must not be an isolated example, but we must have a continuing effort by the Committee and the National Assembly to report to the public how security services do their job and avoid public abuses and the mystification of the service. I don't think that's helpful at all. In developed countries of the world when you see a terrorist attack, don't give it to anyone, first question is who will solve this case, and in serious countries you know the answer immediately. It's one of those security services. I hope that this will be the case for both of us, and I think that we are close to it, and we should be proud of the fact that BIA has been behind us for years, especially when it comes to fighting organised crime, fighting drug trafficking by the world's most influential security services, and marked as one trusted partner, and we need to help them, to continue with good intentions, work, and not to avenge them. I have a few questions for the Committee's representatives. We can do it right now. We can do it at one of the next sessions. I first want to know how you intend to control the legality of budget spending, and especially in light of what you yourself have stated in the report that it is a little awkward for the security service budget to be represented in detail, by appraisals, but that it is much more appropriate to present itself in total, since it is largely a matter of secret information and it is not very convenient to print them here in the Assembly, and in this sense, when you control the legality of spending these funds, I suppose we should consider the same criteria. I'm interested in whether there have been any illegalities and irregularities you've seen in the work of the service, as well as how you evaluate the VBA and VOA report, an important body that was introduced during the term of office of the last government, and I think it's important that it works and that it can be done properly. There is one important issue that we have not often discussed in the National Assembly, which is present in a number of EU Member States, which is a matter of security checks for MPs who control the work of the Security Service. Personally, I think the lack of these security checks is one of the brakes, which is why we can't effectively control it, I'm not saying it's not working well right now, but I think it might be a lot better, because we had cases at the time of the mandate, last government, that representatives of some opposition parties were without a problem coming out of closed sessions for the public, a few of us had, I agree, not all of them were needed, I'll talk about it later, but there were these closed sessions. We've had people who go out without a problem and talk to everyone in the paper, no problem, and I think that's one big problem. We had cases of daily papers publishing confidential reports from the Ministry of Defense, too, last year. On the other hand, I don't think anyone's been prosecuted on this matter which I think is very bad, and now I'm asking this way if anyone's been processed on this matter, and if not, why not, and why are we going over it lightly? To return to these security checks, I think we should consider in the future organising some meetings with security representatives, with representatives of international organisations who have experience with this issue and see which way the Republic of Serbia could resolve this issue. There's an interesting case in Hungary, and I think it's a good example, because there's a very important question here. You, on the one hand, control security services as MPs, and indirectly you appoint the directors of these services by selecting the government, which later appoints them as directors. On the other hand, if security checks were necessary for senders, it would indicate that these services are controlling us. It is a bit contradictory, but I think it is necessary, and there are mechanisms to prevent abuses from possible, by those services. For example, in Hungary if an MP were to be denied the right to exercise supervision if he did not receive that certificate through a security check, so it is suspected that an abuse is involved, this problem goes to a meeting of the Committee on the Control of the Service, which can then, by two-thirds of the majority, alter this decision and enable the MP to exercise control. So, the two-thirds majority implies that this is not just about the parties of power, but that there is something that is relatively close to consensus, that the opposition supports some and that would mean that we have some serious problem and, of course, the legislative body should take matters into its own hands. There are ways to solve this, and I think we should pay serious attention to this issue in the future, because it would help us as MPs and security services, too, to increase our trust, and also to the citizen and to know that these are people who really have the credibility to do this job. If they are not doing it properly, it is known that these politicians are being punished in the elections. You mentioned that you tried to point out to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance the need not to express the budget in terms of appraisals, but in total because of the sensitivity of the data and that you did not come across their understanding. Personally, I don't think it's acceptable by the Ministry, and I hope that this problem is solved in the meantime, and if not, I ask people who are handling the National Assembly to think about possible ornamentalisation of some training for people from the Ministry of Finance who are in charge of this area, to get a little closer to this issue and to understand that the budget for security services is not a chubby for the Ministry of Culture, with respect, because it's a different kind of work. As Mr Kovacevic, a retired general, said, this is indeed the most prominent area in our society, and we need to be particularly sensitive when we do this job. One of the European Commission's demands, and I am now putting this whole story in the context of Serbia's EU approach, is to pay particular attention to security control and one of the European Commission's demands is to strengthen this parliamentary surveillance. In that sense, I think we have another obligation to solve this issue, and also to consider the security checks I've mentioned. Keeping closed sessions is a very important thing. We had a problem when we were the majority in this assembly, with a lack of political will in the opposition, to allow these sessions to be held. We also had the chairman of the opposition committee who abused his function, the sessions that had to be closed, he opened up to the public with one demagogy that the citizens had the right to know, hiding from the citizens the truth that the only way to do business in their interest was to get real information at a closed session, not some kind of story that just can't be serious when spoken in front of 20 cameras. I'm glad that the service representatives pointed out that for the first time they can talk openly, that I am glad, and that I must underline that in several times and in the past, we have visited security services and had very good conversations with them, we have been given insight into closed cases where we have been through the legality of conduct and have established whether there have been any irregularities, illegalities, especially when it comes to data collection measures such as listening, interception, electronic communications, etc., so we have some experience but probably this, as a result of a continuity, represents a step. A colleague Đuric mentioned the issue of telecommunications operators avoiding obligations and e-communication laws, which concern the provision of conditions for legal interception of electronic communications, I think that must stand in the way. (President: Time.) I'm a very quick finisher. I think that has to get in the way. I understand that certain companies may have been caught up with the adoption of a new law, that they should be given a little time, but if they continue with the practice of going deaf about this requirement, some sanctions should be applied, given that this is a very sensitive issue. In the end, I would like to give one suggestion to representatives of the ruling coalition. (Chairman: Please, sir.) ) This is the last sentence, I think it is very important, that, in the spirit of the best practice that exists in the EU and despite having had different cases in the past in our country, so now that we are going back to the past far enough, who is guilty, we would not have gotten anywhere, yet to introduce one practice in the future that the president of one of the two security committees is out of opposition, because in this way we will have more effective control, because it is a little unusual that the parties who place their leaders directly control in this regard. I hope this proposal of mine will be in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15962	The word has Minister Mrkic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15963	Thank you, Mr. President. Let me just look at two points Mr. Samophalov mentioned. It is true that of the places offered for these peace operations we have and now practically tenfold the interest of professionals, so, of great interest, that's one thing. Secondly, to comment on what you said about the time of our reaction after the communication that followed from Estonia. So, we answered her the next day that she was fine, the next day, right after she informed us. After that, and in writing after a few days, I saw her myself and she was very grateful that we were ready to come in and get involved. Then we took whatever was in accordance with their procedure, she kept us informed, and we respected that procedure. There was a conference to generate this whole activity, and we just fit into something that's a pattern, you know, we weren't too late to believe in any sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15964	Thank you. Mrs. Joksimovic, just one little deal with you, please, since you are not the promoter...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15965	Yes, can it be from the time of the parliamentary group?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15966	I suggest, since you have your time, there will be more, I think it's better that, in the end, there are really questions here that I understand that you need to say that, in the form of a replica, you can't do that. Whatever I give you...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15967	As rapporteur of the Committee of Parliamentary Groups, can my time be taken away?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15968	Okay, but you have to take care of it, because it's kind of a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15969	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15970	Dragan Shormaz, injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15971	We do not really hear, we have been present all day due to a mistake that is not a mistake by Mrs Joksimovic as the Committee president, she is an authorised representative of the board on the agenda, such as the minister on the agenda point of Mali. The fact that professional services did not inform the chairman in the right way and that you did not do it properly, but that you are leading as a committee reporter, which is not the same situation, that is another thing, this is really a mistake and I am asking you to do it in the future, I think it is Article 27, as the session is being held, but indeed, I guess other committees will remember that they should submit a report to the Assembly. We are now in a situation where Mrs Joksimovic cannot comment, and her work is being commented on and she cannot respond because someone from the secretariat has not delivered the paper or from that committee properly. Then let them learn their jobs in the secretariat, but parliament cannot suffer because of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15972	I fully understand and share your opinion, and that is why I wanted to make a deal with Mrs Joksimovic. It's not my fault, it's probably the board's fault, I don't know. Given the need for her to participate in the debate, that's why I'm looking for a solution, because now a lot of people are going to show up to advertise my injuries to the Rules of Procedure and then we're going to leave by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15973	I'm reporting from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15974	The word is Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15975	I just want to point out Rule 105, which says no one can speak at the National Assembly session before asking and receiving a word from the president of the National Assembly. I think it is extremely inappropriate for us to transfer the responsibility for the incompetence of the ruling majority to the employees of this congregation. These are the people who do their job most responsibly, and don’t accuse the congregation’s professional services of not doing their job properly. These people in this congregation have escorted many ruling majoritys, and they will escort you, but they know how to do their job. Don’t ask us to transfer responsibility to the congregation’s employees, those are the people who are responsible for their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15976	I owe it because it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure that I make my comment on this. I didn't notice anyone getting the word before I gave him that right. Secondly, I really have no intention of accusing anyone of who's to blame, but the fact is that I'm in an awkward position and I think it would be a good idea for Mrs. Jadranka to have the right to, especially when the interesting questions are being asked and that's why I tried to ask. Well, since you can see it, I agree that Mrs. Jadranka will agree that at the time when you are, we will leave normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15977	I agree.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15978	Thank you very much. The word is Janko Veselinović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15979	Infringement of Article 128, which concerns the obligation of MPs to draw their cards when leaving the congregation hall. Right now in this part where SNS MPs are sitting, don't hang up, you can see it with a camera, there are four MPs, and about eight or nine cards, which means that more than half of them didn't take their cards, some of them are down, so I don't see them until the end, although this morning MPs pointed out that some DS MPs didn't take their cards with them. Just that those who saw it and the MPs who were here, I say they were in e-parliament training at the time, but that's no excuse. Where are the SNS MPs? Whether they're in Zemun or somewhere else, their cards are here but they're gone. I'd like the chairman to ask the department to take those cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15980	I think you're right, don't throw it away please, the man's right, the Rules of Procedure has so predicted, let's respect it, please the professional service to take those cards out of these units and get on with our work. That's the Rules of Procedure, and let's respect it. The word has been made by the People's MP Dragan Shormaz, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15981	I just realized that the MP unit is working, because I was talking today, and it wasn't on TV, so I was like Charlie Chaplin -- a toneless picture, but it seems to have been fixed in the meantime, so I believe it's all heard now. It was only a violation of the Rules of Procedure anyway. This is much more important today. We know what the agenda points are. First, I want to say that the SNS will support the Security Control Committee's 2012 security reports. I would like to commend my distinguished colleague, Jadranka Joksimovic, who did this first in our parliament. No one has ever done this before, although it is the obligation of all those who run their committees, not only this committee, but the other committees of the assembly, and we would all be transparent and Serbian citizens who follow the work of the Assembly could also see what is happening on committees. I want to make two brief comments on what's been heard so far in the debate. I'm glad I heard from some colleagues that we should look up to the American Congress and the Senate and practice as it is there. I would add the practice of European parliaments and apply it in our Parliament as well. I think it's really the best practice of civilian security control. On the other hand, we've heard some people talk about people's defenses, about how we don't need to look back so much, because we have a tradition in some of our decades-old security controls. I would not say that we have had decades of success in control or in some totalitarian society, where the delegates of a party are in the Assembly. I don't think we can have any civilian control here, so I wouldn't call on that history. We can only talk about what we have since the time when the multi-party system is in Serbia. The fact is that this is one step forward, and that everything else was much worse than what we have today, and that doesn't mean we shouldn't be better in the next period. As for the draft decision on the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security training mission Mali in 2013 and the decision will be supported by the SNS. I'll talk about it a little bit more now. Some of the things we've heard before in the debate I'll repeat, but I'll say some of them that haven't heard before. First, I'm going to say something about the State of Mali itself. The Republic of Mali is a desert state in West Africa. I've seen, believe it or not, of some commentators, analysts in our media who have signed that it's an Asian state, so I purposely wanted to potentiate this, to say, just to see people in which space and where the state is. She's been independent since 22 September 1960. Otherwise, it's about a country that's really old and heritage more like, say, us, like Serbia. There was even the Little Empire in the Middle Ages, the Songay Empire. They were a colony of France until 1960. In 1991, they made a major reform in their country. They've brought a new constitution, and since then it's something we don't know, Mali has been one of the most politically and socially stable states in Africa. But in January 2012, something happened to them that was not unknown to us either. In fact, the Tuarek rebellion broke out with the goal of gaining wider autonomy or independence for northern Mali in the Azavad area, so-called. The National Movement for the Liberation of Azavad, an organisation whose goal is to make Azavad a homeland for the people of Tuareg and that area more or less control since 2012. Otherwise, the population of Mali is over 14 million people. The official language is French. Most of the population lives in the south of the country, 90%. The capital is Bamaku, more of a million-dollar town. About 90% of the population are Muslims, 1% are Christians, and 9% are members of some old indigenous religions. What's also important to say is that in this very northern part, which is problematic and why the mission was introduced, and I'm going to say to the UN, after Resolution 2085 of 2012, and the EU and the European Security Forces are entrusted to carry out this mission, I'm going to say that this very northern part of the problem is that there's a need to introduce control, because in that part of the state, as we've heard from some former speakers, is developing a lot of Islamic fundamentalism and what the world is currently facing, and this is a threat from terrorism. This uprising was actually by radical Islamic groups in the north and he crashed that picture of tolerance and co-operation that existed in Mali, at least in that part of the world that followed and knew it. Some religious leaders themselves in Mali say they need a stable government, functional democracy because of the end of illiteracy. I quote this, so people can really read the Koran for themselves, not be interpreted by someone else. These words say they're actually Malians, which is a fact, i.e. The current central government is asking for first aid from France for closeness with the country, and later for both the EU and the UN to bring the situation under control, i.e. To make the whole country of Mali truly a democratic, sovereign state in its territory. Then we come to what is the plan of use, and what the Ministry of Defence here and the Government of the Republic of Serbia has sent us. Namely, the EU military and security training mission, not for participation in any combat operations, is called EUTM Mali. It's the EU Mission to Mali. It was established on the basis of Security Council Resolution 2085 and the Union Council Decision on the establishment of an EU military mission in Mali and the launch of the EU Mission in Mali. The mandate of the EU Mission is training members of Mali's military and security forces to train them to restore Mali's territorial integrity, as well as to fight secessionism, terrorism and organised crime, the advisory role of Mali's armed forces in the management, commanding, logistics, human resources, applying international humanitarian law provisions, protection of civilians and human rights in general. I repeat, the EU mission will not carry out combat facts. So, the work of these soldiers who are going there is the training of the Malian forces and they will be stationed on the whole other side of the country, in the south of the city, in the area of the capital of Bamaku, where there is no danger so far and we hope there will be none. I want to say a few more things. It's true that this is how we raise the reputation of the state. We've talked about this before. It is true that in multinational operations, we practically accept internationally accepted obligations arising from the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the UN and other international organisations. If we are constantly calling on the UN as someone where we are looking for rights for us and for what is the fact, which is that Serbia is one together with the Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija, then we must participate in these things and give active participation in order to help exactly what is international right, to defend in a certain way, and in this way where our soldiers are present with our flag, to show that we respect it, and those other, who do not respect it, again, we have the right to say it - but, you see, these do not respect and do it quite another way. As naive as that sounds, it is necessary every day to be persistent and work on reaching our ultimate goal, which is Serbia in the EU, unique, with rich citizens or at least something richer than they are today. Participation in EU missions The Republic of Serbia confirms its European orientation and readiness to contribute to common security and defence policy of the EU. All of our units, which is the fact, whoever talked to these people, was even, I think, last night, on the second RTS programme, one contribution where the Serbian Army members who took part in Lebanon talked about their own, and there is much more dangerous this mission of ours than this one where we are now sending these 13 soldiers to Mali, where they are talking about their experiences. They all said one thing, not only did they feel usable there, that they weren't just glad they were gone, someone here said, it kind of burned my ear to make people go because they had three times their salary, that's not exactly true. Most of these people said they could help there, that they had met new cultures, some said they visited Orthodox churches that they didn't even know existed there, and most of them said they were coming back to the country as far more trained and able soldiers than they were before they left, and that's also a fact. We convey some of our knowledge, but there we accept and our soldiers accept some new knowledge and return far more trained and capable to the country than they were before they went on those missions. One more thing can happen to us. We have a stand-by arrangement that's in that description, and given the situation in Mali, we may find that through that stand-by arrangement the UN requires of us an additional number of soldiers to send there. We can do it based on our actions, our legal decisions and government decisions and the Assembly here to do it now. If that happens, I hope we can answer that the right way. I'd like to finish by saying the next thing. To see who's taking part in this mission, but again I say training Malian forces. France participates most with 207 soldiers. There's Germany with 73, Spain 59, Great Britain 40. I'll say some more states, military neutrals – Sweden 14, Finland 10, Austria seven. So, military neutral states like us. A military neutral state does not mean a militaryly isolated state. We have a partnership for peace. We work together within the framework of the Partnership for Peace. Tomorrow as this parliament, we are sending a delegation to the Assembly of the five-member NATO Parliamentary Assembly where we have been participating since 2006, as an associate member, since we are working in the framework of a partnership for peace at the same level as Russia. They have 10 MPs in that parliament, we have five. We must co-operate with the world and this is one of the good ways and the good policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and because of what our Constitution is, I say - and I am glad to see that the vast majority of MPs are in favour of international missions. It's a good thing for Serbia, I repeat, and being a military neutral doesn't mean we're militaryly isolated. I cited the example of Sweden, Finland, Austria. I just see interests, I don't see any damage to what we're participating in, and we need to send our soldiers, and my God, stand-by arrangement, if it is, then we'll make a decision here quickly, meet and make a decision for more. This is good enough for now. I thank and repeat that both of these decisions will be voted by the SNS.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15982	The word has been made by MP Srdjan Mikovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15983	Mr. President, based on Article 103. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I point to a violation of Articles 27 and 32. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Articles 192, 170, 158, 4 and 164. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'll try, regardless of these injuries, to put all this in two minutes. What's this about? A proposal for a decision on the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security training mission of Mali in 2013. The proposal for an act shall be subject to a single search, based on Article 192. On the basis of Article 170, it is clear that, under a single search, the conduct and the way of the search and search in particular of the draft law is taken at the same time. So, in principle, everyone who has applied for parliamentary groups to speak in principle, but also all those who have submitted amendments, because nowhere in the Rules of Procedure is specifically envisaged that the amendment's proposings have no right to speak here. In this regard and with the right set out in Article 158(4), that each applicant of the amendment has the right to explain his amendment for two minutes, I ask if the President of the Assembly, or you who are changing it, has made an effort to have the Government of the Republic of Serbia in these nearly five hours since the deadline for making amendments to this proposal for a decision, means from 11.00 hours, will now be nearly 16.00 hours, has the Government of the Republic of Serbia made a decision in accordance with the amendments that are in the procedure and where is the last moment to talk about these amendments just now in the context of the Single Search? So every MP to discuss the amendments must know what the committee's position is, which I don't think has met and taken a stand on the amendments submitted. Here I am also asking Mr. Minister, is the legislator within the meaning of Article 164? Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, delivered an opinion on whether we have a statement from the Oamandman, who filed five MPs from the DS parliamentary group? That's why we're handicapped. You will now open the debate that after the representative, the president of the parliamentary groups to speak, but we have no position on the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15984	I don't have any information regarding the amendments. If they are and are discussed by the government, then we will open a debate about the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15985	I have here, and all of you have received an amendment that was submitted on 10 May at 1600 hours, on a proposal for a test after the words – the messenger of the Republic of Serbia, which reads 05 number 80 in Belgrade on 23 April, the Government of President Ivica Dacic, to delete that part of the text. The adoption of the amendment will correct obvious mistakes because it cannot be decided by the National Assembly to sign a person who is not a MP. In the proposal, we have decisions ahead of all of us, where it is proposed that the Prime Minister sign the decision of the National Assembly. I didn't want to talk about this as an expert on the board of directors, and I was authorized to report to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, to talk about this, counting on us to give time of hour, two, three, four, here now and five hours for the government to accept this amendment and to correct the obvious mistake. However, unless the error is corrected, we have in the procedure a decision that should be signed by the Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic, when adopted by the National Assembly. An obvious mistake, but for good reason, I ask here that before we all begin to discuss it, that possibly Mr. Minister declares whether he accepts the amendment that has been filed, which corrects that error. He's the most well-intentioned. It's been five hours, we haven't got an answer yet. That's why I'm asking if that amendment is adopted so we don't discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15986	Let me give you a heads-up. I've received information that the amendment has been accepted. You'll get the information, too. In the meantime, I asked around, so you know. The word has Minister Mrkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15987	Same thing you said, Mr. President. We've been informed that the amendment has been accepted. So let's hope this misunderstanding is cleared. It will be entered into the text of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15988	We're going back to work. The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15989	Thank you, Vice President. I didn't answer the phone about the breach of the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15990	Please don't throw away. Let the MP present his view of these two documents. Here you go. I'll stay.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15991	I'll use the time for the discussion to suggest something, especially to you, General. I have seen that there are misunderstandings about what time Mrs Joksimovic should spend and whether she can answer. I think this is a specific situation. First, we, this Control Committee, let's try something to improve and learn. It's the first time we've had in this congregation. For the first time, a report on the surveillance of security services has been adopted. If you look at the Rules of Procedure, General, you will see a whole chapter that regulates the procedure of control over the work of the Security and Labour Service of this committee. The first two members of the four concern exactly the report, which is ahead of us. It would be logical if the rapporteur of this committee, when it comes to the report, were not treated as the rapporteur of any committee that adopted an opinion on any law that was on the agenda. Why does it matter? I think it's important to improve procedures and learn something from the practices of some countries that do it much better than we do. So this report almost has the power of the law, no law in terms of the law, but it has to be defended in the way it defends the law. The law defends the one whom the proposing has authority and he has the right to report when he considers it necessary. Somehow, according to this analogy, it seems better to interpret the Rules of Procedure and allow Mrs. President of the Committee to defend this report as if it were the Proposer, because it is essentially the Proposer. This will lead us to a better report and simply the fact that both this committee and this report are set aside in the Rules of Procedure from other committees. That's why I think Mrs Joksimovic should defend the report whenever she thinks it should be included, as Mr Mrkic is right, when it comes to the second decision we make. Just a little suggestion. So that's new to us. In some future Rules of Procedure, we may remove this misunderstanding, but I think it's a good way to go. There's been a lot of discussion and praise, etc. Let's be more realistic, shall we say, we've started and it's a good start. Now we're talking about how we controlled security services, we didn't, but in the future it'll certainly be better. This isn't about civilian control, because we don't live in a military junta. Milosevic wasn't wearing a uniform either. This is about the democratic control of security services, because they're headed by civilians. Even the defence minister has been a civilian for many years, I wish, on democratic control of security services. It was said in the debate that our law is too transparent, when we talk about the Security Service Act and the budget, that there is much that is not seen in other countries. I think that such claims should nevertheless be relatively relativeised, because these countries that have less transparent security services budgets have indeed a much better developed control of the work of these security services and the spending of money. So, if we all agree that we're really just getting started with this job, I'm talking about security control, then let's not ask that when we're still green about budgets being non-transparent, as it was until a decade ago. In that sense, I think the path we've set should be commended and this report should be commended. Finally, a member of the LDP Service Control Committee also contributed. It's work together, and there's no reason to look for hair in an egg right now. But some principled objections of this kind I had to make. When it comes to security, someone mentioned that security is multi-layered and it's not just what the first ball thinks and thinks, spies and counter-spys are, etc., that there are many aspects of security, economic security, energy security, etc. That's why I'm more interested in what we read in the papers these days, as they say from one side of the country that the reorganisation of one of our firms cannot take place in the way the minister thinks it should, the competent minister, the minister, but in some other way. Somehow it seems to me that it really is from a security point of view of energy security, economic security, an important question of what's going on here. Look, we're talking about "Serbiagas." If it's not clear to anyone, as far as I know, "Srbigas" is a hundred percent domestic-owned company. We didn't privatize that. That wasn't in the NIS package. If that's our company, I guess we're wondering how it's reorganized, who's gonna run it. In some future, if we sell it, one will wonder who will buy it, but for now, like at NIS, we don't ask ourselves anything, or who will lead it, or how dividends will be distributed and whether they will be divided or reinvested, etc. It seems to me, when it comes to "Srbigas," unless something happened in the meantime, so it's kind of secretly sold, that it's still our company, and it's kind of logical that we decide how and how it's going to be reorganized, not someone else, whoever it is and who's going to run it, too, somehow it seems to be in the jurisdiction of our organs, and not some others. It's one aspect of security that I had to mention in this context. I think it's important. We're not going to solve anything in this debate, and I don't expect any further debate, but I certainly think that each of us should put a little finger on what's going on here, especially you from the ruling majority, because I doubt that we from the opposition can influence one side or the other. So much for the Committee's report on the surveillance of the work of the Security Service. When it comes to the decision to send our thirteen soldiers to Mali, which will train their army there to meet the security challenges facing the country and which are under way, it is not disputed. We've always advocated Euro-Atlantic integration by the LDP. As various parties in this Parliament enter into integration by entering the European parties of Democrats, Socialists, conservatives, as in some other segments we are entering organisations that integrate into various areas with those who make up the organisation, and with security, or with the military, it should be. Yes, we should participate in missions not only of the EU, not of the United Nations, but of NATO, because in the end, it seems to me to be a little hypocritical to be involved in EU military missions when it is known that of the 27 EU members, 23, they are members of NATO. Therefore, the acceptance of standards, as in the judiciary, in the economy, in agriculture, in trade, we want to start talks with the EU on full membership, wouldn't we be able to reach the standards we want to achieve as soon as possible through these talks, so it seems to me, and when it comes to the military, we need to get to standards as soon as possible, and what is the EU standard? Certainly military standards that have 23 of its 27 members, which is NATO's standard. With this introduction, I am sure that any involvement of members of our armed forces in multilateral operations anywhere in the world will be a step closer to making and, from our point of view, a very important decision, which is abandoning a fiction called military neutrality. If it were fiction, we explained it a hundred times. Because we can make that decision that we made, stay in the decision that was made in 2007, I think, but it was made by MPs in parliament. As you can see, as citizens see, there are many politicians in the government and in parliament who are now saying completely the opposite of what they said three, six or 16 years ago. It is positive and should indeed commend people who are willing to change for the better. This promises that a different decision will be made in the future in this segment, and that those who say that military neutrality is the father and mother of Serbia and that without it, I don't know what there is, will tell another story like they tell about Kosovo, around northern Kosovo, etc. Why does it matter? Because by abolishing a decision on military neutrality and a clear definition that our future is in a military alliance that belongs to the countries that surround us, all the countries that surround us, sooner or later those who do not, will enter that military alliance. Such a decision is a proof of honesty for European integration. So when that decision is made then for many citizens, to say who are voting for us, when what you are talking about as a new Kosovo policy, I am now talking about those who have changed their policy at last, it would be better if they had done it before, but better ever, then those citizens, who are more confident or confident about the sincerity of European ideals than newly discovered European ideals of those who did not have such ideals by yesterday, on the contrary. That's why I think this decision is important, and we said that we would vote for it, as we voted for all earlier decisions to be made by members of our armed forces in missions around the world, with this note, that we expect to make a more serious contribution in future time through NATO missions. After all, if we're going to play with patriotism a little bit, it's much more in the tradition of Serbia, the citizens who live here, that I don't go to pathetics now – the Serb goes into soldiers, but certainly I as a Serb, it's not pleasant when I see that some other, members of some other armies who don't have such a tradition as ours, give a much, much greater contribution to the stability of certain countries and regions than we do at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15992	Thank you. I need to comment on the first part of your presentation. I fully agree that it would be good if Mrs. Jadranka Joksimovic could answer these questions. However, if I had given her a word through a replica, she would not have been able to give an answer enough. So I thank her again for her taking the opportunity to give that answer in the course of her exposure. If I'm sure no one's going to advertise my breach of the Rules of Procedure, there's no reason why I shouldn't say a word to Mrs. Jadranka. I don't want any serious issue to give rise to the controversy of whether or not a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been committed. I'm asking you to understand me, too, because I didn't contribute. Anyway, I think we got along just fine, and we'll keep working like this. The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic. Please sign in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15993	Dear People's MPs, the Honorable Vice-President of the Assembly, the respected foreign ministers, my colleague Nenad Popovic spoke about one item on the agenda this morning, a report by the Security Control Committee. I will dedicate this speech to the second item of the agenda, including the Serbian Army in international missions, specifically, in the Malian Army training mission. When we adopted the Annual Plan for Using Serbia's Army in international missions in February this year, the DSS voted against that part of the plan concerning the participation of our military forces in EU missions. I remind you of an attitude that was principled and which specifically concerned missions carried out or carried out in Congo, Somalia and Sudan. We had two reasons. I want to remind you of that, given this story about Mali. One of the reasons is principled. So, we were opposed to joining the EU mission because the EU actually took a very dishonest role as the executioner of the State Department policy in Kosovo and Metohija, so the secessions of Kosovo and Metohija and the seizure of Kosovo and Metohija from Serbia. The second reason was something more concrete. We have very serious doubts about the security and defence policy of the EU, which has not been quite clearly defined, which has been changed within a very short period of the existence of that policy, which has actually existed since 1999 and 2000. It is a relatively young policy – 12, 13 years, first of all, given that in major doubts about defence and security strategies, the EU reached a Solomonian solution very soon after the formation of the policy and concluded a contract with NATO, one agreement in 2002, so-called. The Berlin Plus Agreement, where the EU is agreed to participate in those international security and defence missions that NATO is not interested in. So a full one was established, so to speak, co-ordination and compensation between NATO and the EU. Therefore, it can be concluded that it is actually one NATO-led policy, but if such is the case that the EU for its reasons, for reasons of the interest of its major states, should be involved, it will do so in consultation with NATO. This is the second reason why we asked for our troops not to participate in these missions because they are, to say thematically and conceptually and strategically unclear, or what is clear is that these are actually tails of a much larger and more serious NATO policy, NATO strategy, NATO geopoliticals on the globe today, etc. When it comes to Mali, we have a particular cause, it's about Mali, and I'm going to say something about it. There's one more reason. So these two reasons why we voted against the EU-led mission in February remain. However, the occasion is even more specific to Serbia. It explains, however, that the mission of training Mali's security and military forces is to restore Mali's territorial integrity. We are coming up with an absurd situation that a country that is threatened by territorial integrity, and it is fiercely, to the extent that this principle is held on one thin end, that it participates in the mission of one structure, security and defence, which should also preserve the territorial integrity of another country – Malia and that, in fact, two Serbia is following the EU strategy in this matter, so those structures that are participating in the withdrawal of Serbia's territorial integrity. It's completely schizophrenic, upside down. Indeed, man does not understand the reason why we would participate in Mali to preserve Mali's territorial integrity, when we are not able to say so, nor military, more importantly, our territorial integrity to preserve. It's a very perverse situation and then some other conclusions can be drawn from it. You know, if an agreement has been signed that gives Kosovo away, that means it's our second mission to preserve the territorial integrity of a country. The first mission is to preserve Kosovo's territorial integrity. It's just, as a coincidence, if we want to carry out logical conconsequences, it can be done. There is one big, if you will, not only politically but also the moral problem of this mission. In fact, Mali is a distant country to be helped. She has a secession problem, but what happens in Mali is essentially the opposite or different from what happens in Serbia? A part of the population of the territory is trying to secede, illegally segregating part of the territory, just like Albanians in Serbia, means to single out part of Kosovo. We are, therefore, quite passive towards this matter and our interest, and we are participating in a mission that needs to preserve Mali's territorial integrity. That is, therefore, one really big problem that is almost insolvent. The other problem is how it's done, so the methodology, or if you want the procedure. We're making this decision by emergency procedure. Why does an emergency procedure like this make a decision when the Mali thing started much earlier, it's been a year? The first, therefore, use of intervention was France as a country, not as an EU member in early 2013. Today, France has 4600 soldiers in Mali who have fought with these secessionist forces. So it's been a long time, and we're making a decision by emergency procedure. By the way, when it comes to that, that argument is, therefore, extremely strange. I really didn't understand the explanation of the emergency procedure. I'd read those seven lines, since it's one sentence, you'll be patient. Madam Chairman, I'd like to ask that this time doesn't count, because I'm reading the document. It's one sentence, but it'll take me two minutes, because she's very long. Well, if anyone understands, maybe the minister himself. "Decision by emergency procedure is necessary for the smooth functioning of bodies and organisations, in order to meet the international commitments undertaken, i.e. the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia for EU membership, to develop capabilities in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in accordance with the foreign policy definition of the state, to actively contribute to the construction of a favourable security environment, partnership and participation of our members in EU operations." Let him understand who can. Look, this is an explanation of an emergency procedure and nothing else. Here are some questions that we may need answers to. Namely, when did this idea come from, from whom, etc.? We have been informed by Mr. Minister that EU Special President for Security and Defence Catherine Ashton has requested such engagement from us. We received one answer that we responded immediately and did not wait for long but, in fact, the question is when did she send it? Now that's an interesting question given the next thing. It may be urgent for us to enter this process, not to defend Mali's territorial integrity, nor, as it says in this document, to preserve international order, to respect international law, etc., nor to carry out our obligations to UN international organisations. Maybe we're in this business for one of the most important things, and that's getting a date. So, I'm opening up a controversial, realistic question -- why are we rushing into this thing? Are we, in fact, now advocating the EU to get another point and to approve this large structure that needs to assign us a date for something or a date for a date? Well, come on, let's rather send a few soldiers, 13 in this case, that, first of all, France, which in this case is particularly interested, as you know, is acting, appeal to other members, first of all to Germany, which has the most problems with this issue of date and the most obstacles it seems, to approve of, so that France would approve of it so that we don't have these major obstacles to the date. It's something that's quite, I think, realistically asking as a question, given the urgent procedure. Because we see from reason that it can't be really understood why it's an emergency procedure. Otherwise, when it comes to the very thing, this operation of the international community in Mali, it's very complicated and strange. As much as I could inform myself, I watched little information, literature, etc., you have one very, therefore, complex intervention structure, several factors, several subjects. First, France that participates in this as an interested state. She's a former Malia colonizer. Perhaps the official authorities of Mali have called on France to help them with this matter. Like I said, today, she has 4,600 troops. Then the EU is involved on the basis of the Council of Ministers' decision with this training mission, where we should participate, and then on the basis of one decision or resolution of the Security Council, I am not sure, the UN is sending a mission to keep the peace, a pace keeping mission in Mali with another footnote that African member states will play a leading role in this mission. So we have some three structures that are involved in this process, so we're fighting for Mali's territorial integrity. Thus, the situation is rather vague in some organisational strategic sense. Do we need to ask ourselves? We're a small country that gets a date into some story, some game, maybe we're not interested in who's doing it, what's he doing. But the fact is this, in fact, all these interventions that once have a UN cap, and sometimes they don't, are very strange, especially those that are implemented by NATO and the EU. The European Union has a problem with its security and defence policy, both organisational and strategic. Today in the EU, according to its rules, not all EU members have to agree on some military intervention or mission rather than participate in it. Today, nine Member States, of 27, are sufficient to give the initiative for a military mission of this nature and to enter into the process, in intervention, and 19 countries are not involved in this. Why would Serbia now be more Catholic than the pope in that matter? Why would Serbia, as a non-member whose membership is not even in sight, fulfil its obligations to the EU as if it were a member? At the very least, you know, if Serbia entered the EU, which is pure abstraction, something extremely impossible, it could retain its military neutrality, as did four or five states. Ireland has also sent four or five soldiers to this training mission, but there is already a public opinion in Ireland and a debate on whether they should be withdrawn and whether because of Ireland's military neutrality it is okay. It's a debate that needs to be considered, of course. At the very least, today there is a donor conference organised by the EU to raise money for the regime in Mali. The EU is getting into this with 500m euros, and is demanding that all countries of the world, who are willing, be involved. In the EU, there is a principle of volunteering, as well as of U.S. unilateral actions. You have an intervention with the people who are willing to go to Iraq. There are more and more of these situations where the countries, the countries they want, participate in it. Serbia has no obligation, as it says here – according to the UN or the EU, and secondly, as far as we can see, there is no benefit, except for these specifically military ones. So it's experience and higher wages. When it comes to these higher salaries, they will be paid, as far as I can see, from our money, whether or not, from the budget, which we're giving out, 75 million dinars for this intervention. Nor is it a meaningless issue for a small, poor country that is on the tail of economic development throughout Europe. Seventy-five million can be used for much more important things in this country, although that is not a certain percentage within the budget, of course. When we put everything on the table, the reasons, the goals, these disturbances that exist all over this text, where you don't know what, why, especially why urgently, when we have it all in mind, then this mission doesn't make any sense, except for that specifically military-technical one that doesn't satisfy some of the reasons why we're dealing with it. In the end, one aspect of this whole thing. It's a security aspect. Has our government, the Department of Defense examined the security aspects of this mission. I can tell you that Europol brought in a few days ago an analysis of the situation in Mali and the safety risks of the participants. Of course, Europol is referring to EU Member States. They therefore say that there are security risks to participation in the field, but what is much more important for this analysis of Europe is that they say there are strong security risks for these countries from the revenge of those Muslim fundamentalists, Al-Qaeda, who co-ordinates the separatist action, which can terroristly reflect the country's security. In that analysis, you have one assumption that it's pretty good, although the assumption is that that attack on the French embassy a month ago in Tripoli, Libya, was actually carried out by the Alkaida terrorist organisations, as some kind of revenge for France's participation in suppressing the Separatist movement in Mali. Do we have that kind of security assessment? Why are we getting into that kind of risk? So again, we challenge this fundamentalist Muslim world, that perhaps even Serbia is punished one day for taking part in such a thing. There are a lot of reasons to think about it, and as far as the DSS is concerned, we have thought this through very well before, and when we voted against the plan to join the EU mission, and in turn, we will not vote, either. We'll vote against this decision when it's voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15994	Thank you. Minister Mrkic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15995	Thank you, Madam Chairman. I understand the government's position on NATO and military neutrality. I think you all know him, I don't need to repeat that now. Otherwise, we are confident about these operations in Mali, to strengthen our country's position with our contribution, to strengthen it in international relations, and thus to manifest consistently what we support, or our principle, that territorial integrity should be maintained for all, ours and Maliev. Also, it's not true that we stalled to get involved in the action, but it's also not true that we rushed to get a date. I can assure you that. It was simply a procedure that we respected and applied to, not just us, but everyone who decided to participate. We've decided, in accordance with our foreign policy priority, which is the same for everyone here. Believe me, we didn't build our own foreign policy priorities because of the operation in Mali, nor did we build on some of our main foreign-political goals. It's one of the usual things, and the main explanation I gave in the introduction. As for the risk, there's always a risk, it's undeniable, especially in such operations, but we've made sure that ours don't participate in combat actions, and there's a real risk when you go out on the street. If you want to achieve some more goals, then you also have to accept a dose of risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15996	Thank you. The word of the messenger of the people is Joseph Chandor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15997	Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to address these two topics that we have put under discussion today, not only as a member of the URS parliamentary group, but as a member of one and another committee responsible for these issues, the Security Control Committee and the country's Committee on Defence and Internal Security. As for this proposal for a decision on the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU military training and security forces mission Mali, I would not talk too much about it. On the board is this subject very well... (President: Mr. Shandor, may I just ask you to draw a little microphone to yourself. Thank you. I'm sorry if I can't hear myself, but I may have talked less, but he can't move on. As for this first part, I think yesterday on the board we did a very good job, we got all the information that's relevant for the decision-making process, and I really don't see any reason why I'm listing all the data that my colleagues made after the whole day of the debate. I can give, in addition to being a member of the board and I know how we voted, our personal opinion and the opinion of our parliamentary club. Of course, we have no doubt about what needs to be done. We support this mission of the Serbian Army, primarily because it is in sync with the UN Security Council's decision. It is in sync with our efforts with talks with the EU and in sync with their decisions, as my colleague spoke before me, it is in line with our traditions, our time of the Yugoslav Army, later Serbia's armies, with all the results we achieved in those years when we had a stable country, stable relations, stronger economy. I think this is a good step, that in addition to those missions that we have parallel to this, this will be another one that will help us on our way to the EU, namely to strengthen some relations with countries in the European region. Therefore, regardless of what is estimated to be moderately risky, I think that every MP, every citizen who follows these events, knows that every mission, every event in any area in this world, if it's called a military mission, it means a certain risk, and unfortunately there can always be an unexpected event. All in all, I wouldn't talk about it much. We'll support this motion without a problem. I'd stay a little longer on the second case, and that's the Committee's report on the work of security control. Since respected colleagues have already said a lot of things on the professional side, which may be more professional than me, they have also said on the side of their emotional feelings, I would like this subject to take to hand from another aspect. What's that aspect? It has been said here several times that the chairman of the board should defend the report, the president should be given time and time to defend the report. I have a different opinion. My opinion is that this is a real situation, one real picture in real time. This board didn't even exist a year ago. This committee is formed in the new assembly. He has received the tasks provided for in certain acts. He's been behind this board for ten months, I have to say, honest work. From scratch we started and eight sessions were held in these ten months last year, four international meetings with working institutions, three seminars that I personally value as very important, and later I will say and for which we have even had four international visits. If we consider that a year ago this committee didn't exist, it didn't work, I think in eight months this data shows that we have a solid result, which is real in this time period. Eight months ago, when I was elected a member of the Security Control Committee, to be honest, I had no idea exactly what that meant and how we were going to do it, especially given that I had never done such a job before. What counterpart Predrag Markovic said, that Mr. Shandor may have some experience, he meant that in two terms I was an MP at the AP Vojvodina Assembly. However, I must tell you that we had no experience there. Now I have one acquired new experience. For the eight years of working in the province's parliament, I was a member of five or six committees, including the Committee on International Relations, I was also president, and we never had a chance to put parliament on the agenda to discuss the committee's report. I personally think that in this real time, in this real situation, this report should not be defended, this should be considered, this should be evaluated. I have to say, I don't behave in subjection or MPs, I act like a man who's been involved in the work, I think we've done a good job for the past eight months. Of course, I don't think we've changed the world, that we've changed our security services, but we've taken a huge step forward. We took a huge step in co-operation with the OSCE, which on several occasions successfully organised a seminar for us, new MPs, together with the security services of the OIB and VBA. I have personally been very pleased and have learned much from these officers and many professors who have helped us in these trainings, as have the help of the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection, as well as the President of the DRI. So, I think that at these seminars we got a good basis for doing our work and, accordingly, I have to say again, not defending the report, but putting it in one real framework and in real time, that I'm satisfied. By deciding to single out a special room, by deciding to introduce special measures when talking to people who come from the security service, I think we've made one step forward, one big step forward, right in the direction of democratic or civilian control. It doesn't matter what word we use. Col. Ostojić used democratic control and I know that among educated people who deal with politics it is, of course, a more appropriate word. But citizens more understand what civilian control means. I would also underline that, after eight months of working on that committee, I as an MP and how I feel, and that's a positive contribution and the result of working on that committee, how citizens, at least the citizens of Sente, who know me and who I'm in contact with, react and how they accept civilian security control. They've never heard of it before. Since we've been here, since I've been on these two committees, we've made several big meetings with citizens in local communities, in the city hall, and we've exchanged opinions on real problems. It's just that with this act we've opened the way for people, this mantra around these special services we've scattered a little bit, so it's becoming more accessible and clearer for citizens to see what's actually going on here. In these eight sessions, in these three seminars, in co-operation with the OSCE, which I would particularly like to underline, really have colleagues from the OSCE done a very good job, I have to say that I was very happy with the relationship of my colleagues from the security organisations, i.e. agencies and people from BIA, VOA and VBA, on all occasions when we had those seminars, they made a great contribution to making our job successful. So, I think that we, who have never had any experience before, have gotten a pretty good background so that we can do our jobs properly on these committees. I would especially point out that, taking part in this work, in addition to the seminars, I also participated in international visits. I went to a couple of states where we exchanged views with colleagues working at the Ministry of Defense or the police department. I must point out that these visits were, at least for me, and I believe for the board, of great importance, and within that I especially want to commend the service that works for the committee, colleagues and colleagues who are here with us. Believe me, they made such a contribution that I, for example, couldn't say "a" at these seminars, at these meetings with ministers. We sat down with Minister of Bulgaria and talked for half an hour, but there was the prepared and strong work of our people next to this committee, so I'm grateful. We haven't been able to do everything. This is a report of what we've done so far. This is the report on the matter in this House. This is the report that the committee in charge of a particular job tried to do its part of the job fairly. We're trying to bring the citizens closer to this problem. I hope that by changing certain acts and in the next period, we will succeed even better in doing our part of the job and that all of you colleagues, whether we are in opposition or position, we will benefit from doing the job of general interest. I wouldn't talk much further. I don't think this job and what's done should be defended. This, for real, needs to be accepted. In this context, I call on all colleagues from both the opposition and the position to accept and support this first report on the work of any committee in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15998	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u15999	Mr. Minister, honourable Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today there have been many words about the Decision on the use of the Serbian Army in EU military and security forces training missions Mali, and I would like, in the context of my discussion, to address the reasons why the DSS parliamentary group will not support this decision. I want to say at the beginning, and these colleagues from the previous call know that our party was against signing the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EU on security co-operation in 2011. This coincidence, which is visible in our view every time an annual plan of use of the Army has come on the agenda of the National Assembly since then, this time will come out. We said then, and I want to do it again here, that the fundamental problem in the security relations between the Republic of Serbia and the EU is exactly the common defence and security policy of the EU and all that it has contained when it comes to relations with our country. When this agreement was debated, we here said that we cannot be part of the EU's common defence and security policy for the simple reason that one part of this policy and the Eulex mission is in the area of Kosovo and Metohija. With its decision to send a mission, when viewed, the EU itself has shown its desire to support our AP independence. Well, how can we share the common values or common views of this common defence security policy with whoever supports breaking our country? In that sense, all the decisions that came after that, when it came to our opposition to any agreement to send or participate Serbia in EU missions, we made it clear. But here I want to say a few controversial questions concerning this mission, which concerns the legality of this decision, the problems concerning the financial aspect and, of course, the security policy problems arising from this one decision. First, I want to say that this is the first decision to be taken outside of the Army's annual plan of use. This is the first time we have decided in the National Assembly on the use of the Army and other defence forces of the Republic of Serbia outside the annual plan adopted at the beginning of the year. The law on the use of the Serbian Army and other defence forces in multinational operations outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia very precisely defines what conditions these are when it is possible to do this. It defines in its Article 8(4), which says: "Extremely from the provisions of Article 3, which speaks of the adoption of an annual plan, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia may authorise the use and participation of members of the Army in operations not foreseen by the annual plan... ", now I would like, Mr. Minister, to give an explanation, "... if the world's security and humanitarian situation deteriorates significantly. "I would like to get an answer from you that this is a problem in Mali, which is objectively large, significantly worsened the security and humanitarian situation in the world, that we must apply this provision of the law? This is very important to explain, because from your decision it implies, what my esteemed colleague Samardzic was saying, such an explanation of the urgency of the procedure. You here, in our opinion, are violating this law, because under this provision you cannot be considered or explained the adoption of such a decision. On the other hand, we haven't heard from you in your presentation, Mr. Minister, how national security and defence interests of the Republic of Serbia are protected here, nor did anyone assess the safety of the risk. These are all very important things that we want to hear here. On the other hand, funding. In its decision, the European Council envisioned 12m euros in costs, as should be the EU's mission to train the Malian Armed Forces. We participate, when we look at the costs foreseen by this decision, with 75 million dinars. Our costs in total EU costs are about 6%. According to the number of inhabitants, and we know that mainly European countries' donations are managed by the size and number of inhabitants, we as a country participate or act, less than 2% of the EU population, and we donate or participate financially from our budget in this action with about 6%. Well, why could the EU itself, when it has allocated so much funds, not be able to allocate these funds to the Republic of Serbia, given the fact that we are the only non-EU country participating in this mission by your decision. These are questions that are very important to be answered. I want to say one more thing. Understanding with a common security and defence policy here brings Serbia into a completely contradictory position. Politics today, as many as some want to play, or political relations function on the principles of real policy, not abstract stories of liberal concepts that once ruled. There are interests of the state and countries are handled in foreign policy interests. We can believe that the legitimate interest of the EU's common defence security policy is to send one mission, such as Eulex to one country has an interest in breaking down that country, and by sending another mission to Mali has an interest in preserving the territorial integrity of that country. But the Republic of Serbia does not have to follow that EU policy in both cases when it is not in its interest. That's the key question, the political question of this decision. Of course, this all came from 2011, when an agreement was signed by the previous government. What we also see in the announcements is that the level, is one issue that must also be discussed, is that Serbia's level of participation in multinational operations will spread. We see this not only on the basis of statements made by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also on the basis of concrete views or decisions or announcements, so if you want the Army of the Republic of Serbia itself. We all know that within the framework of the Partnership for Peace, the Republic of Serbia or the Army of the Republic of Serbia, certain units have declared that through the so-called adoption of NATO Pact standards will enter into the status of so-called interoperability with individual units so that they can participate in joint missions. In this regard, a military exercise was announced in early June of the month, precisely those declared units, which should participate in the missions. But there are announcements that the number of these units will increase in perspective. Of course, I want to get an answer to the question in which these new declared units will participate, announced that they will raise the level of these units in the range of battalions, in which missions and how Serbia will participate in the further period. Of course, the question of what the objectives of the Partnership for Peace are when this is the way to approach these issues. We want to point out one good thing. The Democratic Party of Serbia is firm for the policy of war neutrality. And as she took part in the Partnership for Peace in 2006, it is a great decision for Serbia to direct a parliamentary delegation to the Assembly of the collective security agreement that was in Sank Petersburg last month. We want as a state, and it is good to establish one balance in security and military co-operation with all countries of which we can have an interest. In a premature period, the process of co-operation with the NATO Pact has moved far beyond the scope of the organisation of the military, the adoption of certain standards, the military headquarters organisation, the definition of a brigade system within the organisation. However, relations with the Organisation of collective security agreements and with the Russian Federation are now only at the level of this one delegation. It is good that we will be able to discuss specifically the military co-operation on the visit announced during this month and the establishment of certain military arrangements and the purchase of weapons, and that is good. But there is also a need to raise the political level of co-operation when it comes to this international or military alliance and thus confirm military neutrality policy. At the same time, we cannot allow these efforts to take part in one policy or join an EU policy in such a way as to protect the interests of the EU, in line with its policy in fact to participate in the completely opposite processes of our interests. Who is and what is the EU and its foreign policy and security have proved precisely on the issue of Kosovo and unfortunately the wrong and bad decisions and the disastrous decision made by the government of the Republic of Serbia, harmful to the interests of accepting the Brussels Agreement. This is to the external security of the EU's defence policy. We cannot share the same values in this way because it concerns our essential national interests. In that sense, the DSS was both in 2011 and in 2012 and now, opposed Serbia's accession to the EU's common defence, security policy, Serbia's accession and participation in EU military missions, and will be in the future. Of course, noting that Serbia participates in UN-sponsored missions where all countries of the world participate, including those that at any time and at the most difficult times for the Republic of Serbia protected its territorial integrity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16000	Thank you. The word has Minister Mrkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16001	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Just a few sentences regarding the presentation of Ambassador Palalic. First of all, about the costs. So there's no extra cost. We're not taking anything new. The budget limits everything, there are redistributions in that and that division, according to finance. As far as the threat assessment is concerned, you know, it wasn't us who gave this assessment, he gave the Security Council. The Security Council has dramatized the situation, obviously based on information and information it has. You know that we like to respect Resolution 1244, then we must respect other resolutions. One of them refers to Mali. What you said would spread the number of members of the Serbian Army in peace operations, we are trying to expand, we want to expand. Not because of their obedience, but because it is good for our country, it provides for a stronger reputation. We're getting stronger with that kind of behavior. Take a country like Finland, which is smaller than us and which enjoys a simply disproportionate international reputation because it has about 5,000 of its troops on various missions around the world. Don't think they don't like their soldiers. They know what they're doing and we think we know what we're doing great, and we're participating in UN peacekeeping operations. That must be clear to all, not in others, but in UN peacekeeping operations. Otherwise, not only have EU members been engaged, but many other countries are engaged in operations in Mali. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16002	Thank you. John Palalic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16003	Mr Minister, when I spoke about the torsks, I did not say how the funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget would be provided, but I asked the question about the share of the funds that the Republic of Serbia has been extraordinary in terms of this mission in relation to the total funds that the EU has identified. The European Union has invited us to participate in this mission, extraordinaryly, suddenly, following the adoption of an annual plan for the use of the army. Why didn't you ask or discuss how you'd already made that decision, and we don't think you should have made it, that they're funding our participation. On the other hand, when you talk about respecting Resolution 1244, we should ask the EU first to respect this Resolution 1244 precisely on the case of Kosovo. On the case of Kosovo, it is highly disrespected, but is drastically deviating from it. You've set an example for Finland. I agree with you, and I agree with you that participation in peace missions contributes to the reputation of the state and military, but with the EU, Finland has no problem with Serbia. No problem of territorial integrity. We are not talking about the UN mission, we are talking about the EU mission and the dispute we have with the EU. This policy, which the EU is talking about defence policy, its security policy manifested hostilely towards Serbia, precisely in the case of EULEX being sent to KIM. That problem doesn't have Finland. So our position is absolutely to support Serbia's participation in UN-organised missions, but at the invitation of the EU until this dispute is discussed with the EU, we cannot participate.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16004	Thank you. The word has Minister Mrkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16005	So the cost is clear what your objection is and be assured that we are trying to make it as good as you suggest. It's not a done account, and we're trying to take care of our interests. As for Resolution 1244, whether or not it respects the EU, the fact is that five EU members respect that resolution, so we must respect it, as well as all other Security Council resolutions. By the way, in that previous speech, you also mentioned the Russian Federation and the need to develop the best possible links with the Russian Federation. I can assure you that according to our estimates, at this point we have the best possible relationship with the Russian Federation and I could even argue that none of our authorities or previous governments in this century have had such solid relations with the Russian Federation. We'll have with them and new evidence in that sense in the other day, and I'd ask you to believe that this is true. As far as Eulexa is concerned, you well know long ago made a decision on this engagement and that this government is just continuing the international obligations that have been undertaken many years earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16006	National MP Jadranka Joksimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16007	Thank you. I've already said a lot today but because of some procedural failures that I don't know who to attribute to anymore, I'd like to refer to what my colleague Ostojić has rightly noticed, which is that the session's office itself has no procedure for this because this is simply something that happens for the first time that the committee is reporting and I, as someone who signed that report, is really pointless that I don't have the time and I don't have the right that you, Madam Chairman, gave me on this first time, when we said that I'm not defending the report, but that I really explain it. I believe there's a misunderstanding. He is not a report that can be completely clear, since we do not have the opportunity to present many things in a report that is public, because it concerns the data that are secret and that is the essence of this committee's work. But, good thing I don't want to talk about it right now, I'm gonna try to answer some of the questions that were raised here. First of all, one of the colleagues mentioned the costs, i.e. the control of budget spending, and that is one of the priority tasks of each committee, including the Security Control Committee. So we follow the legality of the work of the Security Service and the spending of the budget. What the fellow MP did not understand well, although the report accurately defined it, did not address the Ministry of Finance with the intervention that security services only in cumulative and overall format represented their budget rather than structurally, but had just spoken to the representatives or the Committee members explained to the Committee members that they had tried several times to give such an initiative to the Ministry of Finance. We will see in the future, we as a committee supported their initiative, and we are ready to work in that direction with the Ministry of Finance as well. That was the point. Furthermore, about costs, we have for the first time with DRI and this is that segment concerning co-operation with independent state bodies established one serious co-operation and in late December we agreed and proposed that in the course of this year, in accordance with our work plan and in accordance with their capacities and capabilities we do partially, if not completely audit one of the security services. Since in the last 10 years no one has audited the security information agency, I personally initiated it, but here unfortunately, I have to notice in the debate we have proven to be prone to a sensational way of explaining the data. I am not inclined to do so, nor will I ever be, especially when I run this committee, because I believe that the obligations that arise from the nature of the things we do must not be sensational or dared to explain themselves in such a way. I would have something interesting to say, how significantly advanced work is, not as little as most MPs noticed at the initial stage and how it's just an initial step, but it's important and significantly improved, but I just can't say some things, even though I'm going to try to bring them closer to the MPs. I thought it was meant to be, but it doesn't seem like it, but sensationalism won't be in this. So, the DRI has accepted, and for three months now, it's almost in the BIA, and it's running budget spending control, and I think it's going to be a partial audit, given that at the end of the year that they've already prepared their agenda for this year. As for the matter of the General Inspector, the Inspector General is an institution established under the Ministry of Defence in 2011. Unlike the previous committee, which I do not want to criticise, since it had too much jurisdiction and too wide a range of topics to deal with, but it was pretty badly done, no one considered the Inspector General's report for 2011, in fact, we are now for 2012. To correct the mistake, we are the predecessor, we have discussed the 2011 report, the previous Inspector-General also at a press conference, and the General Inspector-General in 2011 and 2012, reports. These reports are very important, since it is the fact that the General Inspector-General is the Institute within the Ministry of Defence who is directly subordinated to the defence minister and directly submits the report to the defence minister. In order for you to have more information, and I will say that, although not in the report, I have personally sent a letter to the Minister of Defence with a question and have had an insight into it by the members of the Security Control Committee, as regards the recommendations made in the 2011 and 2012 General Inspector-General's report. We got the answer, we called afterwards and the Inspector General, and we saw if that was true, that was the case, and we talked to the presidents of the VOA and the VBA that the recommendations applied to. I also requested documentation from the VOA and VBA on all the relatively controversial conclusions of the General Inspector's Report and something that could have looked like illegality, but not to the extent that it would have destroyed the legality of the Agency's overall work and were delivered to us by the agencies very extensive and detailed materials. That didn't get into this report, because the Security Control Report shouldn't be like that, I guess people who think they're competent to know, but good. That's about the Inspector General. The previous work of the Committee, I have already said that I would not criticise it, but the essential supervisory visits in the previous meeting have not been done, and I cannot blame it on the members of the then board or the chairman of the committee at the time, simply these are the problems, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is indeed a legal void that we are trying to replace with some internal acts that will allow us to carry out in full capacity what we are responsible for and what powers and obligations are for us. So, we have shown the political will to overcome the shortcomings that are legal in nature and from that domain of normative regulation of our businesses and we are fully prepared to, in the coming period, because we have settled this normative, and this is already foreseen in the work plan, we also make supervisory visits, direct visits to agencies, or security services. It will not be visits that will take place only in security centres, but as the Rules of Procedure also allows us and how we have made a decision in regional areas, on the ground where security services have their own organisational units. During supervisory visits, the Committee will supervise the application of specific procedures and measures for the collection of data for which a court order is required and those for which no court order is required. These are very specific measures, these are operational measures, Mr. Shandor talked about, we have had numerous seminars of an educational type that we have really in collaboration with the reference international organisations and the OSCE and the DIKAP carried out study visits where we have come to know the ways in which direct supervision can, not until the end, agree and we should still learn, but some initial knowledge that will allow us to gain insight and direct supervision, is sure to have and it will be a topic, and not a topic, but it will be something that we will do in the next two months according to the Committee's work plan, which is also news. We're a detailed plan of the committee's work and we're already counting on the many things we've done, and otherwise there were not five sessions, there were only six sessions closed to the public, a total of 14 board sessions, just one small correction to Mr. Shandor. Furthermore, certifications for access to classified information under the Data Securitisation Act are also a very important issue, with a decision on how to hold a session of the committee to discuss classified information, the committee's meetings are scheduled to attend, in addition to committee members, the service staff appointed by the Secretary-General. I must point out that all those who have been designated to attend these sessions have passed and have been sent to a security check to issue certifications for access to classified classified classified information. As far as I'm aware, I've been looking for this information in the meantime, the employee check has already been completed for all those attending the sessions. As for the certification of MPs, from my direct conversation with the MPs, and right from the democratic party, I realized that there are doubts about the application of Articles 38 and 39. The law on the confidentiality of data and dilemmas, whether MPs should pass security checks and receive adequate certifications, or, as it is said glegonically, to be certified or not. I must point out, and I really want to point out, I personally have nothing against certification of Members of the public, which is also a practice in some, not all EU countries. I'm going to set a very clear example of what makes this practical? This is not just practical from the point of view of keeping our committee meetings, namely, during one of the study visits of the EU countries' parliaments, I will not say which, not important last year, the members of the board were not allowed away from closed doors, precisely because we do not have security certificates for access to EU and NATO classified data. So these are the things that make it relatively impossible for us in our work here, but they significantly restrict us with regard to gaining experience and sharing experiences and learning with other countries and practices of other parliaments. Therefore, once again I say, we should resolve the concerns about it and take a clear position whether we want it or not, and I am personally in favour, I have no problem with it, but it is a matter that we must all in Parliament agree on. The next thing I know, I'd like to answer, although I have something else to say, but I didn't get a chance before, that's the question of how this committee valued the efficiency and scope of the security service, did we really manage to oversee the work of the security service? I ask all MPs to understand that the parliamentary committee has a supervisory and control function in, I will repeat, oversee the legality of the work of the Security Service and the spending of budgets. No one has any authority or intention to involve security services in operational work and all that under operational work and other, very serious and very complex procedures, services do. On the other hand, the question that has also been raised here is how is now possible that we as representatives of the government, in particular as chairman of the board, can control someone we have set up. I must tell you that the director of the military intelligence agency, a gentleman appointed, Brigadier General Borisavljevic, has been appointed in the term of the previous minister, Mr Cvetko Kovac, as well. I don't know, do you really think this power has set them up? On the contrary, it has shown good will that where things are sensitive, where they are specific, sensitive in a political sense and in a safe sense, it shows a kind of understanding of the continuity and of what is certainly to the well-being of the citizens of this country. I must point out that indeed with the directors of the agency we are making extremely correct and productive co-operation. Therefore, it does not stand for that kind of objection, and it is particularly not standing, and I must also say, in relation to the fact that when the sittings are closed, believe that the MPs of the opposition are much less active and much less questionable, let me say that I use a coloquial term, a wrinkling issue of directors and members of agencies, than the representatives of the government do. I'm probably the most active on that committee, and that will be confirmed by each of the board members, although, as you say, I represent the power of the ruling party. So, at no point did politics, nor partying, get involved in the work of this committee, and I absolutely do not accept that kind of criticism, and that is why I am really proud that this report has been adopted by all the members of the Security Control Committee. I think it's very important to say, I didn't stress that in the first place, but now I think it's important. Another question that is very often used in a completely pointless way in the media, around a "deaf room", or around a room where these sessions would be held. I must stress that this is not about rooms that would be exclusively intended for the work of the Committee on the Control of Service and Security. So this is a European standard which means that these premises can be used by all MPs and all committees of the National Assembly if they come into contact or treat documents that are marked as "secret, top secret, state secret" or already at the level of classification of confidentiality of data. In this way you National Assembly have fulfilled its legal obligation to implement physical and technical measures, as it is said, to protect classified information. It's something that's from the Privacy Policy. The data confidentiality law was passed in this home in 2009, but apparently, until the constitution of the Security Control Committee, colleagues in the previous meeting did not take seriously the necessity of the application of this law. So these are some of the misunderstandings that keep coming up. We've solved it, I've already said it, I'm not going to repeat myself in that way that we've separated one room in King Milan, where all the necessary checks are previously carried out, security and physical technical conditions are being made possible, that we can really work in the right way, that there is no leak of information, as it is said. There are many open issues that have been raised by fellow MPs, which make the work of this committee more difficult, but also by other assembly committees, and I will tell you what a particular problem is. For example, holding joint meetings closed to the public of the Security Control Committee and the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. We have a lot of things to discuss together, we don't have an authority over the work of the MUP, for which it is specifically the responsibility of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, but very often we come, in daily life, to some very serious issues that we should solve together. The Defence and Home Affairs Committee has no decision to close sessions and we do not have the possibility, according to the Rules of Procedure, to hold a joint session of the two committees, which is indeed one handicap for a comprehensive analysis of the potential or existing security problem. I don't think that's irrelevant, and I think about it, we should definitely start an initiative to do something about the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. I have been informed that the Secretary-General and the National Assembly's services are taking some of the activities, in order for this issue to be resolved, and the protection of classified information is to believe a very serious project, which, in addition to the financial resources that are here, seems to me less important, requires a period of time, that is correct, to address this problem adequately. In this regard, a kind of change of systematization was carried out and the work of the controllers was introduced with classified information and a defence plan. I hope that by the end of next year we will be able to boast that we, as well as other parliaments in Europe and the world and the region even, have adequate rooms to store and handle classified information and to hold sessions of working bodies closed to the public. Otherwise, all members of the Committee, who are familiar with classified information, have signed a statement on keeping secrets. They're familiar with materials in a separate room where these data are stored. They don't multiply. They read directly there and return, so that we have taken a number of measures to protect what we need to protect, in order to obtain sound and timely information from the security services which must also protect their obligations and their interests from the domain of national security, regardless of whether it is military security services or the Security Information Agency. Someone else said that, but let me point out once again, we have really established one correct one, and I think it's a regular co-operation with independent state institutions or agencies, above all with the Commissioner, with the Manchester and with the State Auditing Institution. We asked them to have their delivery plans also, so that we co-ordinate some joint sessions, since, here, I'll say it as perhaps a data that was not also found in the report, many recommendations have been made by the Galactica regarding some irregularities observed in one of the military agencies. We have also requested documentation on this issue and will certainly work together, since independent state agencies have also verified their mandate to work in this National Assembly and have both the right and the obligation to co-operate with the National Assembly, and we also have the right and the obligation to work together with them to achieve results, so that initiatives exist. I'm sorry I heard some skeptical reviews of this board's work today. I don't think the report even shows how much we've improved democratic control and there's no reason to criticise that we can't say civilian control. You know why? Each of these agencies has its own internal control that is not civilian. Therefore, this is also about civilian control. So both civil and democratic control. I believe that the report is written as required by the rules and regulations on the work of this committee, that is, part of the Rules of Procedure relating to the work of this committee. I will never sensationalism as I lead this committee, and I expect it from the members of the Committee, to be the method of our work, to collect political points. Believe that both the security services and all the members of the Committee and how they know that this committee is doing its job and that we are important plus in what is called improving the reform and supervision of the security sector we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16008	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16009	Mr. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, Mr. Foreign Minister, ladies of the Ministry, Mr. Assistant Secretary of Defense, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm unusually glad that you came to the O.R. to show you that there is no careful reading of such laws by DS MPs would be a very dangerous mistake here. You heard the decision was signed by President Ivica Dacic. He doesn't say the Prime Minister. Maybe he's pleading to take you off the seat of the president of the assembly, and maybe this is just a mistake, so we'll treat her like that. It's good that it's fixed. Take care. Take care of the Parliament. You know, when the Prime Minister is signed as president of the Parliament, he'll want to be president of the state. It will be a serious violation of coalition relations. When we are discussing sending our troops today, our mission to Mali, it is important that the citizens of Serbia, above all, inform what is going on there and it is important that our citizens have full and complete information as to why we, in the context of the implementation of our international obligations and the UN resolution, are sending troops there. I won't, like some MPs, read Wikipedia about what's going on in Mali, but I'll tell you, for the sake of the citizens, just what's very important to know. The State of Mali used to be called South Sudan. It was a French colony since 1895. Independence took place in 1958, forming a common state with Senegal. After that, Senegal became an independent state and a small independent state was a multi-party parliamentary democracy. Unfortunately, there is a serious civil war in the country of Mali, as the northern Mali, in which the Tuareg people live, forms its National Movement for the Liberation of Azavad and in this effort, in these goals the organisation grows into an armed formation and slowly starts to clash with the regular troops of the State of Mali. Unfortunately, in this complex conflict in the state of Mali, with 90% of the population making up the Muslim population, there is a very complex civil war, as the national movement to free Azavad joins the most radical members of Al-Qaeda, the Ansar Dina Group. They together establish full control in the northern state of Mali. At the same time, members of the military, dissatisfied with the country's president's conduct, overthrow the country's president on 22 March 2012. Amadu Tumani Tura, who is also the president of the state and commander-in-chief of the armed forces, is being removed and an army is establishing something called control of the southern part of the state. It is formed by members of the armed forces of the National Committee for the Reconstruction of Democracy and State. Now we have three armed formations – the most radical form of Al-Qaeda, the Ansar Dina group, which by the State Department and the UN Organization has been named the greatest threat right now, the most radical Islamic group of Al-Qaeda, practically the successors of Bin Laden. These people are coming into conflict very quickly with the National Movement for the Liberation of Azavad and there are armed conflicts between them. Members of Anasar Dina in Mali commit terrible crimes – they apply Sharia law, destroy cultural monuments. The State of Mali has a rich tradition. Imagine how one of us in Serbia would react if someone, and we survived, destroyed cultural monuments. Of course, the UN and the EU are making a decision that the bloody conflict is trying to prevent it in some way. At the same time, the conflict is overrun by the operation of Al-Qaeda on Algeria. There's an attack on a gas plant at the beginning of this year, taking a large group of hostages from Ansar Dina. There's an intervention of the Algerian army. A few dozen hostages were killed. It was a conflict of great proportions. Unfortunately, the conflict is slowly being overrun by neighbouring countries. Why do I mention all this? Not to scare the citizens of Serbia or our soldiers. Our soldiers must have the full support of parliament to leave and we as DS will vote for this, despite this being one of the more risky missions. I'm not gonna say it's the most risky, because you don't have to scare those people who go there or their families. They're watching the Assembly sessions, but they need to be aware of the risks that exist. The risk is as much for these soldiers of ours to go there, as much for us here, because Al-Qaeda, as you know, has its cells in the Balkans. There may be some findings and a theory that they might take revenge on us. We have at least a number of contingents, only 13 soldiers, mostly sanity personnel. Their task is to train regulars, and that is the mandate of a peacekeeping mission, to train regular troops to carry out their tasks. So we're going to have an educational character there, no combat facts. So our soldiers will not participate in combat missions, nor against the weapons formations there, exclusively educational. It is important to know that this is a risky mission and that is why our soldiers must have strong support, it means that they know that the state of Serbia is behind them, their families, that parliament is behind them and that they will certainly work to restore Serbia's reputation in the world by participating in the peace mission. This strengthens our dignity, affecting Serbia's different eyes from our partners in the world. I'll just remind you that former JNA commander Mr. Jovic was commander of the Peace Mission after the Iraq-Iran war conflict. This was one of the greatest wars since World War II, which has taken hundreds of thousands of human lives, and I will only remind myself that this honorable man, the responsible job has done in the best possible way, and that Serbia has received numerous international recognitions and today mentions this man, as one of the best commanders of peace operations, under the auspices of the United Nations. Of course, with all due respect, I can't help but notice that today we have an absolute consensus for sending our troops abroad, that some political parties led from politics, that it might be better for foreign troops to come to Serbia, than for our troops to go there, to come to this consensus with severe torment, at all easy. If we had in this home the words of some of our MPs who are doing high government functions today, such as I swear to God, that I will not rest until the Serbian army marches on Kosovo and Metohija, to the words – what our army in Hajiti, East Timor, will our soldiers hunt for pirates in the Somali Gulf, while the foreign army guards the Pećko Patriarchy. It's a good thing that rhetoric left. It's good for you, too, good for us. Consider where Serbia would be today if those rhetoric had never been. Think about how much our army could contribute to peace missions today, if it wasn't for what it was. Sure, I'll say a few more things. I must say, I'm sorry he's not here, Mr. Alexander Vukitch. I'm sorry that that policy in Kosovo and Metohija came down from the parole -- no one can beat you, no one can beat me, so that's where you go with the gendarme. It's better to come here and answer our MPs some questions. I must also commend some of my colleagues, especially Mr Kovacevic. You know, there are people who worked in this country's security services 20 years ago and left a very sacred trail behind. They remained professional acts, when the state protected itself with all its capacities, and it was very immoral of people who saw the service as a springboard for a career, so they offered themselves as associates and may have been rejected, because yet the service was keeping an account of whom it was receiving, it was very immoral and dishonest to attack people who did this job because they took an oath to the state of Serbia, and that they were attacked by those people who wanted to work to rat out their party colleagues, or friends. Those who once offered themselves, they are offered service today, in all times. Those who have created and worked in it are honorable men for me, if they have not participated in the abuses of their official powers. I guess these people know best how the service used to work, how it works today, and how parliamentary control is done. Don't think at all that they don't have the democratic capacity to inform us and report how security services work. Such people should sit on parliamentary committees that control the work of the service, because they have a rich experience, which has come through, I underline, out of their love for this country and in honor of carrying out their oaths to that country as well. After all, look at the movie "St. Georgia Kills Ajdau", when Lazar Ristovski reads those letters from a snitch and says, "I did this job for a salary, and you hated your neighbors, relatives and friends and tried for one another. Don't point your finger at our colleagues, I say, who left bright marks in that service. It would be good to once open the files of that service, which the Democratic Party has always advocated, so let's see who had the motives and motives to work in that service. Also, I'll just remind you of a few things. I have here, of course, what I bring from the Library, the stenographic notes, what who was saying, when Serbia decided to send its troops abroad and say, "I swear to God, I swear on my life, I won't calm down..." I don't want to speak the name and last name of the author of these words, you all know it, and for those who can't remember there are good shows on Radio Belgrade, it's called "Mozaik Time", composed among other things and of our words spoken in this home. He says – I swear to God, I swear on my life that I will not rest until our army returns to Kosovo and Metohija, and those who send our troops into the world and want us to participate in some peace missions are the enemies of this country. It's a good thing we've given up on that rhetoric, and it would be much better if those who swore in God and life had sworn in their possessions, then I guess they'd try to keep those oaths. I also have to say something about a report from the Department of State Security Control Committee and to speak to you from the Ministry, to ask you to convey the words of gratitude. First, all those people who work in those services, especially those girls, wives, mothers who do these administrative work, write these reports and deliver them to us. The military's luck has never delivered their reports to the tabloids in the last 13 years, because when you look at the tabloids, you see the most sensitive security information that some of the security departments, which are not military services, deliver to these tabloids, I don't know from which initiative. I don't know why. Here they announce for days that the top of the gendarmes will be arrested, then it doesn't happen, they say it's over, it's gone. Very inappropriate and inappropriate messages are being sent to people who are being investigated. If they were the subject of an investigation, to keep an eye on that, you could read it in the paper. You can't see in any serious democratic state that security services are delivering data to the tabloids. It's a good thing when it comes to the Ministry of Defence and the Military Security Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, which is that they remain founded within their constitutional powers, because we don't read it, I say in the tabloids, and to commend those people who are responsible for sending and preparing these reports, to thank these women, and also to thank you for sitting and listening to us MPs, without the right to participate in the debate, but I say it's a good thing that at least one part of the security services didn't get into that war and that deal with the tabloids, so that they compete who will better, more verified information is to deliver to the tabloids. In the end, I'm undermining, we'll vote for this. We will vote because it is the continuity of our policy. We never fell asleep like Seselj, and we woke up like Boris Tadic or Cedomir Jovanovic. We have had continuity in our political functioning, this continuity of our duration, that Serbia's reputation returns by fulfilling its international obligations, that the reputation of Serbia is restored by our belief that by participating in peace missions we strengthen not only the world's reputation, but also the possibility of fighting in a fairer way, when it comes to our territory about Kosovo and Metohija, in front of international institutions, because as long as you respect international rules, then you can call on those international rules to apply to you. If we respect other resolutions, then we can say exactly what Mr. Mr. Mrkic said. Then it applies to us and Resolution 1244. If any other United Nations resolutions, which we are a member of, are not valid for us in Serbia, then someone from the world will tell us – so excuse us, you do not recognise the world rules, then do not call on what is right for you and what is in your interest and criticise what is undermining and some of your obligations from membership in international organisations. In that context, you will have support for this law. Mr. President, please take care of what Ivica Dacic signs. While he was with us in the coalition, he shouldn't have done that. He had to take care of it. It comes to us, we read and we just say - no, no. The institution we entrusted you with must be kept at full capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16010	The word has the People's MP Otto Kishmarton.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16011	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, the respected presidency, respected ministers, something summed up and I will specifically say about the participation of the Republika Srpska Army in the EU military and security training mission in the Western African state of Mali, I stress the training of military and security forces. So, the EU Mission to Mali will not perform combat operations. The mission plans for 13 members of the Serbian Army to participate for a period of 15 months. Participation in the mission, as far as I know, is on a voluntary basis, and these are all top trained members of the Serbian Army. Otherwise, all our members of the army who go to peace missions are highly trained and wherever they go and wherever they do their mission, as far as I know, of the local population are well received. As far as I know, we've never been embarrassed. On the contrary, they raised the reputation of Serbia. By participating in multilateral operations, the Republic of Serbia fulfils the accepted international obligations towards the UN and the EU. Our participation in peacekeeping missions increases our country's reputation and improves the opinion of other countries on Serbia and Serbia's military. By engaging the professional Serbian Army in the EU Mission in Mali, the Republic of Serbia clearly shows that it is an active factor in preserving peace and security in the world. Also, our country shows its resolve in resolving disputes by peaceful means and respect for international law. With active participation in the preservation of peace and stability in the world, we contribute to building an equal partnership relationship with other UN Member States, as well as with EU Member States. As I said, members of the Serbian Army are not sent to perform combat operations, but to train military and security forces in the Western African state of Mali. The political security situation, as we have heard so far, is extremely complex in Mali and certainly needs assistance from the international community to address the problem. Since our country is also part of this international community, we should help solve the problems that have arisen in Mali, as well as in other countries in the world. For this reason, in the voting day, we will support the decision to use the participation of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security training mission in Mali in 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16012	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Konstantin Samofalov.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16013	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As the debate nears its end today, I will briefly sum up what the views of my MP group DS are. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the clear answer to my question whether we were wasting time when Mrs. Ashton sent a call to Serbia. I'm glad the answer is no. I think it's very important to be quick to react and show that we are as ready as other countries that are committed to participating in a common security and defence policy, so we are not strong just on words and I welcome that. Of course, with all due respect, colleagues from the DSS, it is good that we have different views in parliament. At the very end of the line, my party is also based on the idea of self-indulgence, so it's not the idea that we all think the same thing. However, my deep belief is that we must take a very active participation in the EU's common security and defence policy, that we cannot just talk about hundreds of millions or how much we are throwing at euro figures to help us get up on that scale of European integration, but that we also have to assume our obligations, and the reward, of course, always comes when you are reliable partners. We've been witnessing how we've been going when we've been hanging out with the whole world. I don't think that policy was too successful. Maybe someone disagrees, but I don't want my kids to grow up the way me and my peers grew up in the '90s. I agree, the DSS colleagues have put it as an argument, that we should take part in UN missions, but this operation in Mali of the EU has just been approved by the UN Security Council. So I don't see what's going on here. Second, both armies and states that have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's independence are participating in the Malian mission. I guess out of solidarity with them, we should take part. We look forward to having a certain degree of understanding with the chairman of the Committee on Security Control in terms of thinking about these security checks for MPs. That's one serious subject. We can't solve it today, but I've given some personal thought to how in the future we can think about how to improve control. It can't be the idea of a party. It should be a matter of some broader political agreement and that it is understood that there is no political game behind it, but a sincere intention to control on behalf of the citizens the work of these services. The idea of a joint session of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on the Control of the Service is excellent. In particular, VBA and VOA operate within the Ministry of Defence and in that sense are the powers of the Defence Committee, where I am a member, and of your committee and how they intertwine. We should consider how to operationalise this co-operation, whether to allow representatives of the two committees to read the reports, perhaps not all of them, but in a certain way to be familiar with the work of the ministries and bodies in the responsibilities of both assembly committees. I would once again appeal to the MPs of the ruling coalition. The issue was resolved when we set up committees after last year's elections, but I think it would be very good in the future to think about one of the two committees – for defence and security control, to be led by the opposition. In some future, our roles will change. I think it's a good idea to establish this as some kind of practice, maybe even introduce a rule in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly that one of those two committees is led by an opposition representative. It can only help in the work, but this is not a criticism for the presidents of the current committees. As far as I'm aware, they're doing their job correctly. I think this is something that can bring benefits in the future. Therefore, we as DS will support this decision to refer our army to Mali. As always, we have never stepped down from that policy. Once again, I will mention one idea that I put out a few months ago, when we discussed the annual plan of using the Serbian Army in these operations, to visit one of our peacekeeping missions, perhaps this one in Mali, because it is one of the most risky, if not the most risky. All of us who served the army meant everything to us when someone appeared in our barracks, especially, I suppose, colleagues who served in some remote parts where no one went. When only an army officer shows up, line them up there, and then talk to them for a minute. I can only imagine how many people who work in such difficult conditions as Mali would, as many as they would, and they would be 13, how much would it mean for them to come one, two, three MPs to visit them, to see what conditions they're working on. In this way, we could break down all the public abuses and directly inform our citizens about how these soldiers live and how real these dangers are and how much more effective it takes to help them do their job. In this way, I think we are sending a strong message that we are committed to the idea of Serbia's active involvement in all EU activities, especially in the defence policy security plan. So, not to use it, as suggested here, maybe for the sake of getting this or that or the date, but that this is the result of a serious and long-term commitment. I also think that we should pay more attention when discussing the budget, so that we don't go through it in such a hurry, but rather get to know the needs of the Ministry of Defence when it comes to peace missions, that MPs get to know each other well about it. I know, since I've been on these committees for over six years, how these discussions work. Very little attention is paid. I guarantee that 90% of the MPs don't even read these reports, and then we should make a credible decision about sending people to some sensitive hotspots. I think it takes a lot more attention and that when we read these reports correctly, then we're argumentably looking for budgets to increase, to provide better equipment for our soldiers, but there should be a visit ahead, so let's see what it looks like on the ground. It's all interlinked, so I think we need one more degree of seriousness on our side. Finally, I call on the Assembly, if at all possible, to reach a consensus in this matter, I would be very pleased. I am particularly pleased to have attended a very correct and polite debate today, where there were not many hard words, a little argument. We've been criticizing ourselves a little bit, but I think we've shown that no matter what we belong to different parties and that we disagree on a lot of issues, we can humanely talk. I don't think the citizens this time will have as negative an opinion on parliament as they usually do, with the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16014	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16015	Thank you. Dear ministers, respected fellow MPs, based on UN Security Council Resolution 2085, the EU Council decided to launch a mission in Mali and urged all member states and partners to participate in it. The call by EU foreign and security policy chief Catherine Ashton is also addressed to Serbia, and it is solely the right for each country to decide whether it will participate with what forces. That's exactly why we're talking today about this motion decision. This call only confirms Serbia's credibility and opens a new chapter in Serbia and the EU's relations, which means deepening co-operation and partnership relations. The participation of Serbian military members in activities under the EU's common security and defence policy is one of the defence ministry's priority objectives, as participation in EU missions, the Republic of Serbia unequivocally confirms its European orientation and readiness to contribute to the EU's common security and defence policy. The Republic of Serbia is currently participating in two multinational EU operations, and this is an EU maritime force operation against Atalanta pirates in Somalia and the EU mission to train the Somalian security forces of EUTM Somalia in Uganda. It is important to note that today, the Republic of Serbia is the only non-EU member state member of the EU Force Contributor in the EU Mission to train the Somalian security forces of EUTM Somalia in Uganda, and that due to the expertise of the medical staff involved in that mission, it enjoys great confidence in the competent structures of the EU and the local population. Taking into account that the mandate of the EU Mission in Mali training members of the Malian military and security forces to train them to restore Mali's territorial integrity, combating secessionism, terrorism and organised crime is an advisory role for Mali's armed forces in the management, commanding, logistics, human resources, applying the provisions of international humanitarian law, the protection of civilians and human rights in general, the Republic of Serbia shows with its participation that it is an active factor in preserving international rights and peace, stability and security in the world. Our participation in this mission certainly contributes to further affirmation of the fighting ability and the reputation of the Serbian Army in the world. Through the outstretched defence system, we contribute to combating international terrorism together and equally, as well as other EU members. It is important to point out that, in the definition of the Ministry of Defence, the increasingly present position is that, in the context of the engagement of our forces in international missions, women's populations are increasingly represented, which is in line with generally accepted standards everywhere in the world. I am talking about 13 people, so there will be 13 people, as well as the fact that the EU Mission in Mali will not perform combat operations, just confirms the humanitarian character of engagement. They will be among the forces of some of the EU countries to be identified as leading in the mission. Given that the EU Mission to train Mali's military and security forces was launched on the basis of the UN Resolution, participation in that multinational operation, internationally accepted obligations stemming from the membership of the Republic of Serbia in the international organisation are met. Once again, I will repeat what my colleague Shormaz has already said, that the participation of a member of the Serbian Army in the EU Mission to Mali will not lead to additional allocations of financial resources, but the amount of financial resources needed to implement the decision on the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU Mission to Mali shall be included in the amount set out for participation in multinational operations in 2013, if, of course, it is approved by the 2013 Budget Act. Participation in multinational operations provides the possibility of professional training of members of the Serbian Army and sharing knowledge and experience with members of the armed forces of other countries. In the end, I would just point out one more fact, which is that besides the foreign-political benefit, the involvement of Serbian military members in multinational EU operations also contributes to strengthening their own defence capacities and national security. Of course, the SNS will support this decision's proposal in voting day, as will the Security Control Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16016	Thank you. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Milovan Dracun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16017	Mr. Chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the defence ministry, fellow MPs, in addition to the general reasons for the engagement of our forces in the government's mission, the participation of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security forces mission Mali, whose mandate was established under the UN Security Council Resolution, will have a special importance and direct impact on increasing the security of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the region. Such an assessment can be carried out after considering the reasons for setting up missions and local, regional and global security risks and challenges resulting from the current situation in Mali, which can determine the degree of direct or indirect threat to the security of the Republic of Serbia. Namely, Col. Milivojevic gave a brief history of the situation in Mali, and I think some more data should be added. After the March coup, which took place in the capital of Mali in Bamak, the rebel group in the north and Tuaresa, i.e. the national movement of the liberation of Azavad and the Ansar Dina movement, agreed in late May 2012 to unite and declare a new state called Azavada, in northern Mali, otherwise on territory twice as far from France. They formed the Transitional Council of the so-called Islamic states of Azawad, accepted Islam as their religion and advocated the independence of Azavad. The leader of the Ansar Dina movement, Al Galli, enjoys the support of the global Islamic terrorist network Al-Qaeda and Islamic Maghreb. The head of the African Al-Qaeda branch, Abdelmal Droukoll, urged fighters in northern Mali to gradually introduce Sharia law to create an Islamic state. France's military intervention has restored key cities in northern Mali, which have held under its control for several months by an Islamic group linked to al-Qaeda. A strong jihad and international terrorism base was established in northern Mali. who rests on radical Islamic ideology. North Mali is a strong base for the operation of Al-Qaeda and other Islamic groups and for the transfer of activities to other Maghreb countries, i.e. North Africa, such as Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia and Libya. The Maghreb Al-Qaeda cluster has become the most active, extremely radical, brutal and fanatical part of the global terrorist network of the Islamic jihad. Just a number of jihadist and terrorist groups based on the ideology of radical Islam during and after the wars in the former Yugoslavia have established their cells in these areas, a network of so-called humanitarian organisations, which extends the ideology of Islamic jihad and recruit new supporters, channels to finance extremist action for the illegal transfer of extremists and weapons. The Balkan region is the main course of action of North African radical and terrorist groups on their way to Western Europe. Positions, links, joint extremist and terrorist activities of the Magrebic cluster and local radical groups in the Balkans have been documented, particularly in Cosmet, Macedonia, the Federation of BiH, the Rasko-Polim area, Bulgaria. Radical Islamists operating in North Africa continuously carry out their activities on parts of our territory and directly endanger the security of citizens and countries. The formation of an Islamic state in northern Mali, under the control of radical Islamists and al-Qaeda, could directly compromise Serbia's security stability, which therefore has a highly justified, strong and long-term interest in contributing to the establishment of full territorial sovereignty of Mali and the destruction of the country's Islamic base. The so-called Islamic state of Azavad, declared in northern Mali, is undoubtedly a strong base of international extremism and terrorism, and as such requires a multilateral response, a cooperative approach to neutralisation and a modern security threat that rests on the association of national security capacities, i.e. on multinational missions. The Serbian Army mission in Mali is fully in line with the national security strategy of the Republic of Serbia, which recognises the dangers of international terrorism and multilateral forums as the most effective response to the security risk. I quote from the 2009 National Security Party. "Terrorism is one of the biggest risks and threats to global, regional national security. Modern terrorism is global in its scope, and it is linked to violent religious extremism. Under the conditions of global terrorism, the Republic of Serbia can be the target of terrorist action, both directly and using its territory to prepare and carry out terrorist actions in other countries. "The Republic of Serbia advocates regional co-operation in the areas of joint training for the engagement of security elements in multinational operations, crisis management, border management. Just in full compliance with the strategy, participation in the EU mission in Mali, so in a multilateral format, Serbia will increase its own capacities to face the threat of international terrorism. Participation in Mali's military and security forces training can counter and deal with rebel, Islamic movements, and Al-Qaeda is a smart, outcast, preventive defence of Serbia against international terrorism, radical ideology, extremists and jihadists. Training to strengthen the Malian security forces will significantly reduce the possibility of exports of radical ideology and terrorism from the country to North Africa and further to the Balkans and the EU. This means that members of our army, who will take part in the Malian mission, will indirectly participate in stopping a radical Islamic threat and significantly increase Serbia's security by outstretched defence on the African continent. By training the security forces of Mali, members of the Serbian Army who will go on the mission will be able to establish quality, long-term sustainable and efficient ties and co-operation with Mali's military and security forces, especially intelligence cooperation in the exchange of necessary information that will enable them to monitor the operation, movement, plans of radical terrorist groups in Mali and neighbouring countries. This information is crucial for timely detection and prevention of terrorist conspiracy and violent action, which could affect our territory, and for breaking up links between radical groups operating in the territory of the Republic of Serbia with jihadists and terrorists of the Magrebic Alkaida cluster. The river – the success of the EU mission in Mali depends heavily on the security of the Republic of Serbia, and fully justified is the sustainable and perspective participation of our army in this mission and should be actively supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16018	The People's Messenger Srdjan Shain has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16019	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I'd just like a few things before the end of the discussion. I wouldn't get into some things that have been repeated before. First, I would ask a committee dealing with security services issues to open up another issue in the next period that I think is very important for the future of Serbia, which is the question – how are security checks carried out by those who are recruited into security services, not only in Serbia, but also in other services similar to them? I think we should make a significant step, if we are talking about European integration, in this direction, that less and less, in depth, certain persons depend on the history of their grandfather or their great-grandfather, we already need to focus on the personality, to focus more and more on the individual, and I think that one of the committee's tasks is to do, in this direction, the next year, along with the authorities in the government, a certain step. As for the issue of enlisting our forces in security missions, I do not think it should be a matter of personification whether it is the policy of Vojislav Seselj or Boris Tadic. When we talk about the Roma Party and our membership of the SNS parliamentary group, there is only one motive for us, and that motive is how much it is in Serbia's interest, how much it is in the interest of implementing the policies that we have promised citizens in the elections. We have clearly said that the majority of the political parties involved in the work of this Assembly, that our goal is the EU and only that prism, is the only perspective for us that can confirm whether this is a good policy or not. If we view it that way, then it is undoubtedly a good policy and in this sense we fully support the engagement of our people in international military missions. Surely this is important for Serbia's internal security, surely it is important for the positioning of Serbia, both within the European people's family and beyond. In that sense, I would continue in this context and that may be a message to the foreign minister, to all of us in the parliament and the Government of the Republic of Serbia when we adopt the next budget, we are waiting for serious steps in the EU accession process. If we follow certain countries in the environment and how different forms of their activities are, as is inclusion in international peace missions, different forms of activity have contributed to the positioning of a particular country to make the good news of them much more supportive than any other means. I believe that we also need to spend more money for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thus allow the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to do the best lobbying in all EU countries and that our accession process is as short as possible, as effective as possible, because if we invest in only one year of serious funds, as Croatia has done, and unfortunately today we are not in a situation where we are doing so on the basis of this budget. We can shorten that path in one, two years, not extend it by one, two or three years. When we see how much savings it brings to Serbia, then it is very clear that any dinar invested in it can be a serious help. That's it. My colleagues at the SNS Parliament Club said they support it, we join it and we give full support to both the law and the other law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16020	The word is from the People's Messenger Zeljko Sušec.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16021	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, respected representatives of the defence ministry, the armies of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the participation of the Republika Srpska Army in UN missions has an exceptional importance for the Republic of Serbia. By participating in EU missions, members of Serbia's Armed Forces are engaged in their work and foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, thus becoming ambassadors to their country in all parts of the world, where they are engaged. The EU mission to Mali was established on the basis of a UN Security Council Resolution and a decision by the EU Council to launch an EU mission in Mali. The reason for the launch of the Malian mission is to train members of Mali's military and security forces to restore Mali's territorial integrity, as well as to train them to fight secessionism, terrorism, organised crime and counselling Mali's armed forces in the management of human resources, commanding, logistics and apply international humanitarian law provisions. In this way, the EU Mission to Mali prevents the creation of a polygon for training Islamic terrorists that respect the great support of Alkaida and thus poses a danger to all countries in the world. The EU mission does not foresee fighting actions, and the mission's mandate is scheduled to last 15 months. The participation of Serbian military members in UN and EU multinational operations is an important element of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia, fulfilling internationally recognised obligations as members of the UN and other international organisations to respect and preserve world, European and regional peace and security. Serbia's military has not participated in EU missions in Mali so far. Participation in the EU mission in Mali is scheduled to take over 13 professional members of the Serbian Army. The task of members of the Serbian Army is not to carry out combat operations, but to train Mali's military and security forces. The mission is categorized as a moderate risk, due to the functioning of the rebel groups, but in addition to this, I must point out that the Serbian Army has adequately trained people to participate in multinational operations and that any attack can adequately respond. Participation in multinational operations is one of the three missions of the Serbian Army based on established security, defence needs and interests, and in line with the national security strategy, the defence strategy and the strategic review of the defence of the Republic of Serbia. By participating in multinational operations, the Republic of Serbia makes it clear to all countries in the world that it advocates resolving all disputes peacefully, respect for international law and other standards in international relations, all with the aim of strengthening the role of the international community. The proposed decision on the participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU mission in Mali also requires financial resources. The funding was granted by the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2013. The reason for making a decision under the urgent procedure and meeting the international commitments undertaken, i.e. the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia for EU membership and that, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and in accordance with the foreign political definition of the state, actively participates in the creation of a favourable political environment and partnership and the participation of our members of the Serbian Army in EU missions. In the voting day, the SNS parliamentary group will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16022	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the search is concluded, I ask if the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96, want the word. Rules of Procedure? The word has been made by MP Dragan Shormaz, the time you have is six minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16023	I thank the President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for this remaining time, as an authorised representative of the SNS, for a brief look at some of the things we heard in the discussion, to explain certain views, above all the SNS on engagement in military missions, and specifically on this one. In fact, there was a question of a guy -- are we sending a soldier this EU mission to get a date so that France doesn't cause us a problem with getting a date? I'm a Democrats, it's known, by belief, I know that there's a difference of opinion and it's not a dispute, I like to cross arguments, but this kind of question seems to me, just like, I don't know which less word to use, than a subtitling. First, it is clear to all that France, even before this agreement was made at all, has publicly expressed in more ways than its many MPs, any ministers, that it advocates Serbia getting a date for the start of negotiations, even before we signed this agreement or agreed in Brussels. They didn't even condition that Serbia should and Serbia meets all the conditions to win. I personally became convinced at the French Embassy, at a meeting that we had with the German and French ambassadors, several of us as delegations from the authorities and opposition were there, the MPs who spoke the day before in the government, we were sent to the Embassy of France, talked to them, while the German really had a firmer position, the French MPs, all of them, were to get the date and that we deserved it, even without those negotiations, and let alone participate in one mission. Then Serbia has no obligation, does anyone force it to participate, etc. Serbia should have the will. Serbia has a will, is that not shown? Not only has the government decided to participate, but 90% of parliament has made clear, based on today's debate, that it will support the participation of the Republika Srpska Army in this mission. So Serbia has the will to participate in all this. Is there a risk of revenge? My colleague Dracun explained nicely what this is all about. Of course there's a risk of revenge, what's the issue? But isn't global terrorism one of the greatest dangers we have right now in the world? Serbia was threatened by global terrorism before sending soldiers to this mission. That's for sure. That's also said in the National Security Strategy. Victims have fallen worldwide from global terrorism, the United States, Spain that has not recognised Kosovo's independence, Great Britain, Russia, Moscow, how many times since the same extremists, besides, this is Russia in the Security Council. One more thing I'd say, too. I agree, a colleague from the DS talked about it, which we didn't talk about here, and neither did the minister, as a fact, but the fact is that at some point the instability from Mali was transferred to Algeria and that there were even victims there. Algeria is probably our most consistent partner friend in North Africa in both economic and political and military, in every other sense Algeria is a consistently friend of Serbia. One more thing is the fact that a large number of our citizens are working and living in Algeria. Statistical data says more and more. Algeria's bordering Malia, if you didn't know, I said instability was transferred from there, there were casualties, but I can see you don't know that, so you don't mind. That is why we should support the same participation in this mission, because Algeria is also interested, as our friend, in Mali, in the situation is stabilised. In the end, I will say one more thing, for the sake of the citizens of Serbia. This is my personal position, although I know that it is shared by the vast majority of SNS members. We have to make peace with the Western world. How long have the French and Germans, the English and the Germans been fighting each other, the Americans have dropped two nuclear bombs on Japan, so today the United States is the largest foreign trade partner with Japan and the largest diplomatic friend. We can't go any further if we don't make peace with the Western world. We must co-operate with everyone in Serbia in the interest of defending our sovereignty, territorial integrity, in the interest of Serbian citizens, the economic development of Serbia, we must co-operate with everyone. I will say just one example that already exists in the EU for a short time. The country's name is Finland, it's an EU member, a military neutral and great friend with Russia, foreign trade relations are far better than ours... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... With Russia. That means we can do all that. In conclusion, the SNS will support all of this in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16024	I am concluding a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Decision on the use and participation of members of the Serbian Army in the EU military and security forces training mission Mali in 2013 and Report of the Security Service Control Committee on the Management of Security Service for 2012, with a proposal for a decision on the adoption of the Report. We're moving on to the next joint single search. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, in addition to the representatives of the promoter Ivan Mrkic, Foreign Minister Zoran Marković, Foreign Ministry Secretary General Natasa Kalezic, Head of the Department of International Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Nina Veličković, First Advisor at the Department of International Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to conduct a joint single search on the drafts of the 10th and 11th agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the Parliament group, which is the details of which you have received in the material. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representatives and the Proposal for a Law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices. Does the proposing representative, Ivan Mrkic, foreign minister want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16025	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have before you the proposals for a law on the validation of two agreements governing the employment of members of the family of the diplomatic and consular representatives of the country of appointments in the country of reception, which were concluded with the Republic of Turkey on 1 February 2013 and the Republic of Macedonia on 18 February this year. The purpose of these agreements is to regulate employment on a reciprocal basis, with the compensation of members of the families of diplomatic and other staff of the state of appointment in the country of reception, in accordance with the internal rules of the state of reception. To that end, agreements determine a circle of persons representing members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices. The conclusion of this type of bilateral contract in the last decade has become a common international legal practice. They allow the preservation of normal family life, i.e. the integrity of families of diplomatic and consular representatives. In this way, they contribute to improving the effects of the work of diplomats and other staff of diplomatic representations that are smaller in the case of family separation than when families are gathered in the place of service. This type of agreement limits those family members' immunities in civil and administrative proceedings in respect of works arising from the performance of paid activities which would otherwise belong to them under the provisions of the Vienna Conventions on diplomatic and consular relations. Subject agreements also regulate the issue of denying immunity from the criminal tribunal. The agreement with Turkey obliges contracting parties to seriously consider any written request for denial of this immunity when it comes to immunity from the criminal tribunal. The Agreement with Macedonia obliges the Contracting Parties to give up immunity from criminal justice in respect of a member of the family of staff of the mission in respect of the works resulting from the act or indemnification of the work paid for, unless the appointing State considers that such a denunciation may be contrary to its interests. These agreements provide that the waiver of immunity from the conduct of criminal proceedings will not entail the waiver of immunity from the execution of a criminal conviction for which special denial is required. The agreements provide that members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representatives of the country of appointment, employed in the country of reception, fall under the social security regime and taxation of the state of reception concerning all issues concerning their employment in that country. The Republic of Serbia has concluded such agreements with ten states so far. With Canada in 2004, with the United States in 2006, with the Netherlands in 2010, with Spain in 2010, with Belgium in 2010, with Argentina in 2012, with Slovenia in 2012, with Israel in 2012, with Turkey this year and with Macedonia this year, with six agreements: Canada, the United States, the Netherlands, Spain, Argentina and Slovenia. Let me remind you that during this year, the National Assembly confirmed agreements concluded with Slovenia, Argentina and Israel. Negotiations to conclude this kind of agreement are under way with seven states, with Albania, Portugal, Germany, Switzerland, Romania, Brazil and Australia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16026	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is from MP Irena Vujovic, representative of the SNS parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16027	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable fellow MPs, respected representatives of the ministry, I will say several important things about confirming the agreement that we conclude with the Republic of Turkey and the Republic of Macedonia. We almost had similar agreements with the state of Israel and the Republic of Slovenia. First of all, a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Turkey on the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices proposes that the agreement signed in Belgrade be confirmed on 1 February 2013. The proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Macedonia on the employment of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representatives is proposing to confirm the Agreement signed in Skopje on 18 February 2013. The purpose of these agreements is to regulate, on a reciprocal basis, employment under the compensation of members of the families of diplomatic and other staff of the states of appointment in the country of reception, in accordance with the internal rules of the state of reception. To that end, agreements determine a circle of persons representing members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular offices. In concrete agreements, family members shall form a spouse and children who meet the criteria for age, under the age of 21 and 25, respectively, and regular education, i.e. higher education in the country of reception. The conclusion of this type of bilateral contract in the last decade has become a common international legal practice. They allow the preservation of normal family life, i.e. the preservation of the integrity of families of diplomatic and consular representatives. It has been noted that the effects of the work of diplomatic and consular representatives in the event of family separation are smaller than those of the family's duties on the arranged family occasions. This type of agreement restricts immunities both in civil and legal proceedings, in respect of works arising from the pursuit of paid activities, which would otherwise belong to them under the provisions of the 1961 Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations and consular relations of 1963. Subject agreements have resolved the issue of denying the immunity of the criminal tribunal, with both solutions common in international legal practice. The agreement with Turkey obliges contracting parties to seriously consider any written request for refusal of this immunity when it comes to immunity from the criminal tribunal. The Agreement with Macedonia obliges the Contracting States to give up immunity from criminal justice in respect of a member of the family of staff of the mission in respect of the works resulting from the act or indemnification of the work paid for, unless the appointing State considers that such a denunciation may be contrary to its interests. This Agreement provides that this denunciation will not be considered as a denunciation in respect of immunity from the execution of a criminal conviction where a special denunciation is required. In such cases, the appointing state undertakes to seriously consider giving up immunity from the execution of the judgment. The process of hiring members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representations, based on these agreements, differs from the procedure of hiring other foreigners, in the sense that the State Ministry of Foreign Affairs protocol is to be accepted at the request of the diplomatic and consular representative of the State of designation, following the procedure implemented, issue prior authorisation for the employment of family members. The agreements provide that members of the family of persons of diplomatic and consular representations of the country of appointment, employed in the country of reception, fall under the social security regime and taxation of the state of reception concerning all matters concerning their employment in that country. What is important for the implementation of such agreements is not necessary to allocate specific financial resources. So far, we have concluded contracts with eight other countries, with Canada, the United States, the Netherlands, Spain, Belgium, Argentina, Slovenia, Israel, Turkey and Macedonia, and these agreements with Albania, Portugal, Germany, Switzerland, Romania, Brazil and Australia are in the process. Such agreements represent a significant step forward in the diplomatic relations of the two countries. The Serbian Progressive Party will support the agreements in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16028	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Predrag Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16029	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, just to thank you for being here all day and to apologize to you on behalf of all who have not simply understood the essence of such technical agreements, confirmation and what the role of the Assembly is in this. Once again, I apologize to all of you who probably misapplyed to the word. There used to be Communism, as you know the possibility of attaching a discussion if you intend to read something you've already heard, but in the meantime, the technique has progressed, if someone wants the picture to be attached to the video. In any case, this is a technical agreement that allows our citizens all of what you have made clear, and what we have read later in the discussion, and I assume, without further discussion in the day to vote in such agreements and support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16030	Thank you. We have one MP, MP Mark Atlagic, on the lists reported. Here you go, Mr. Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16031	Thank you, Mr. President, let me just say a few sentences on these two agreements. Generally, both are in fact well-founded by Mr. Minister, Mr. Mr. Mrkic and our distinguished colleague, Irena Vujovic. Let me say it should be supported for a number of reasons. I'm only going to say three for a little while. First, by applying it, members of the family of diplomatic and consular representations will do better in paying jobs. Secondly, which is applied to the mutual basis of reciprocity and the third, which is why I came forward, which is about the bill of state, us neighbouring and friendly with which we have traditional, good and friendly relations from this country. Since I'm a member of the Friendship Club with the Republic of Macedonia, let me say a few sentences. The Republic of Macedonia and the Republic of Serbia on this third, their citizens have good neighbourly good relations. They are not only the fruit of day-to-day political needs, they are founded on long-term and even centuries-long relationships in many fields of life and work, in cultural, economic, political, scientific, religious, educational and others. This good neighbourly relationship between these two countries has been particularly determined through our mixed marriages, family ties. So almost the same faith, almost identical climate, identical aspirations towards the European Union and one and the other countries, the same roots of language and letters or similar cultural heritage, the same or similar historical verticals, the same or similar traditions and mutual respect for the two peoples. Mr. President, this good neighbourly co-operation of ours is getting better every day. This co-operation is a fruit and political good relationship. Let me just say that the visit of the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia, Mr Trajko Velenovski Republika Srpska, was recently and that he met with the President of our Parliament, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, the President of the State of Tomislav Nikolic, Prime Minister Ivica Dacic, and therefore our parliamentary group of friendships here in our parliament. Furthermore, our Prime Minister, Ivica Dacic, paid an official visit, President Tomislav Nikolic, an official visit to the Republic of Macedonia. What is most important today to point out that the MPs here, as well as the citizens of Serbia, in Macedonia, have the status of national minorities since 2001, to learn in three schools Serbian language in Macedonia, that Macedonians in the Republic of Serbia are a national minority, who has a representative in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, which is Mr Spirovski, who sits in front of the SNS and that Serbs in Macedonia have two MPs in parliament. Finally, Mr. President, as far as the Republic of Serbia and this second draft of the law with the Republic of Turkey are concerned, I will speak two or three sentences, on the third reason I said at the outset, because we are well-friendly neighbouring country. I say that yesterday we signed one agreement with the Republic of Turkey and that the summit today is being held on the basis of three states and that this friendly relationship with the Republic of Turkey is built not only on political but also on good business and economic ties. I call on all MPs from other parliamentary parties to support the two agreements 100%, to send a signal to our friendly countries and to show our good relations towards the two countries truly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-05-15-0.u16032	Since the list of parliamentary groups is no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? (No) Thank you. I'm concluding a joint single search and we're continuing work tomorrow at 11.00 p.m.
