ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27639	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2013. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 68 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Please, just make sure you got your cards right. Please check the presence and determination of the quorum. Please, let's do it again. Dear Members of Parliament, I find that the application of the electronic voting system has shown that 76 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are not present, which is why they agree with Article 88(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are adjourned in 11.25 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27640	Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue to work, we must at first determine the quorum. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 84 MPs are present in the hall and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. The People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27641	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, you probably know I'm going to advertise Article 87. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, regarding working hours. We have been witnessing for several days that the ruling majority is unable to secure the quorum. The cost of such a lack of Parliament's work is enormous. You noticed that employees of the National Assembly have recently had those validations where they have to wait when they get to work at 8.30 p.m. and when they leave work. I simply cannot believe that the ruling majority is unable to create a quorum necessary for the work of this congregation building. I think it's incomprehensible. Yesterday we were two hours later, we had an understanding there was a Justice Committee, we were discussing amendments. Today, I felt uncomfortable watching Mr. Arsenovic try twice and advertise that voting is wrong, that it is wrong to insert cards, begs people to ring again. It's a really inappropriate atmosphere, a rude atmosphere. This message we send to Serbian citizens is very bad. Please influence the ruling majority to provide smooth working conditions or otherwise to go to elections, because you don't seem to have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27642	I agree that we must all be much more serious, but I also remind you that this is the obligation of MPs who do not belong to the ruling majority, since their rights and obligations are the same, when they receive salaries, to participate in the work of the National Assembly. Since MPs are not divided by their rights to the rights of the majority and opposition, they are all obliged when we have meetings of the National Assembly to put cards in, to be in the hall, because that is the basis on which they receive some of their belongings. I agree with you that the focus of responsibility is on Members of the ruling parties, which is also natural. Whatever there was a public hearing and several sessions of working bodies, I certainly believe that discipline in the work of the National Assembly must be better and we must try to show that we are able to perform these responsible functions in a serious way in which we were elected by the citizens. On the basis of Article 287(2), Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly, or MPs, have the right to request information and explanations, so I ask that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, representatives of parliamentary groups or presidents of the application. The word has the People's MP, Arpard Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27643	Mr. Krstic, the Director of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Director of the Tax Administration and the Director of the Office of the Tax Administration in Vienna, I would like to ask a parliamentary question, and I would refer it to Mr. Krstic, the Minister of Finance, as well as the Director of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund, the Director of the Tax Administration and the Director of the Office of the Tax Administration in Vienna. The questions concern the forced collection of agricultural producers' debts to the country. Tax administrations and the Fund, based on the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, are asking each member of the agricultural holding to pay the insurance. All this is governed by Article 13. Pension and disability insurance laws, as well as the Health Insurance Act. We're all aware that you're compensated by farmers who have to pay, of course, if they have something to pay. In practice, the Fund asks the agricultural owner to pay the PIO about 59,000 dinars and asks for health insurance of about 31,000 dinars. So per person, the total amount of 90,000 dinars per year. For example, individuals who have two morning countries must pay 90,000 dinars per year on an annual basis, regardless of having significantly less income or perhaps renting agricultural land. I wonder how it is possible for a person who has 0.5 hectares of land to demand the same amount as a person who owns 100 hectares of agricultural land? What's going on in the field? Those agricultural producers, the smallest, the smallest in Serbia, cannot, have nothing to pay them for, and unfortunately, many are asked for more than a million dinars in the name of the debt along with interest. These small agricultural producers, i.e. unemployed persons with agricultural land in their name, must pay the state hundreds of thousands of dinars of contributions. The problem is that the state began from them, depending on the size of the debt to the state, to take away agricultural land. More farmers from the Becay municipality spoke to us from SVM, because because of their over-indications and pension and health insurance debts, they are threatening to take away their families' orans. The five-member Zorad family from Bačko Petrovo Selo runs seven hectares of land under vegetables and fruit. However, due to the new regulations on the health and pension system, they owe the state 1,400,000 dinars, which they cannot pay, so the orchard is for forced sale. So the state sells agricultural land from which the five-member family lives. It's not just this family that's in trouble. There are dozens of them in the municipality of Vienna, not only from Bačko Petrovovo Selo, but also from Vienna and Drujana. They all have the same case. They paid PIO, but when there was no more funds for it, they couldn't pay anymore, so the state still wrote them and sent them bills and warnings with increasing interest rates and incredible amounts. They all believe they won't be left without land, without which surviving their families is unthinkable. It is also interesting that for now only in the north of Vojvodina are coming notices from the Tax Administration and, according to my information in the north, a forced payment is made. I ask for information from the authorities – how many warnings were sent to farmers in the municipality of Vienna, according to the settlements that belong to the municipality? I wonder if they're sending warnings to all the settlements in that municipality? I'm interested in how many notices have been given to citizens by settlements from the municipalities of Senta, Backo Topola, Zrenjanin? Also, I'm looking for information for the municipalities of Sabac, Nis and Jagodina. I am interested in whether warnings are being sent and whether agricultural land is being taken away in other parts of Serbia or only in Vojvodina, since it seems to me that only in municipalities in the north of Vojvodina, where Hungarians live to the greatest extent? I'm interested in how all of this works in other parts of Serbia, does the Tax Administration, south of Belgrade, take agricultural land from farmers because of the debt of health and PIO insurance? SVM MPs oppose this behaviour of the Fund and the Tax Administration towards citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We appeal to the Ministry of Finance to stop through the IRS by taking away agricultural land. This takes the chance of a lifetime for the survival of many families. If the state really wants to help small agricultural holdings and really wants farmers not to become social cases, then it has to lead another policy towards them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27644	The word has the People's MP Zoran Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27645	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I want to protest that I have not received an answer for a month to the parliamentary question I have referred to the Minister of Construction, Minister Ilic. I ask you, Mr. President, to pledge your authority for the members of the government to honor the National Assembly and the Institute of Parliamentary Affairs. We have a debate on the budget and a set of government economic laws coming up, but there are definitely some things that can't wait for that debate either, because there are very, very strange things going on. We are witnessing these days the offensive of Minister Radulovic against the SIEPA's foreign investment agency and the announcement of its closure. As far as it went, Minister Radulovic said foreign investments were capital nonsense and his nonsense was published on the site, so it was quickly downloaded. It is said investors should come by improving the investment climate, but not by directly encouraging foreign investment. Is the climate for investing in Serbia when the pardon of the worst criminals is announced? Is the climate for investing in Serbia when there are parallel security structures and not in Kosovo, but in Serbia, which countries prevent from respecting the Constitution and the laws, as was the case for "the Parade of Pride", but we see that nothing happens when it comes to dealing with criminals who are being beaten as hooligans? Is the government's economic policy really such that you don't know who drinks and who pays? Look at the latest data - inflation in the last month was 2.2% below the lower limit of projected inflation, and the economic rate of the interest bank is 10%. Is the government aware that these measures clearly push Serbia into recession and that it is not capable of achieving two goals that must be achieved at the moment, which is a reduction in the budget deficit, but also of development? My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and the PV, or first Deputy Prime Minister. It concerns what Minister Radulovic managed to achieve in a short time. Takata, a Japanese company that manufactures airbags for almost all of the world's car manufacturers, is leaving, although it was supposed to open up a drive and employ 1,500 people, is leaving because of its behaviour and announcement to lift foreign investment. The PKC, a Finnish firm that was supposed to open a truck cable plant in Smederev, seems to have signed a memorandum with it, also appears to be leaving. "Panasonic", "Gorenje", in Zajecar was to open a factory of millions of washing machines, "Bos" in Pecinci, "Norton Card" in Jagodina, an Italian company that was to open a kitchen factory. This is a total of 5,000 jobs that Serbia will lose in this situation when we are at the unemployment rate among the first in Europe. Will the government really wait for an emergency election to get rid of the minister? That's a question for Dacic and Wolf. In particular, to respond to each of these investments, since they cannot be realised unless a tender is called, and the tender will not be called because the minister announced the suspension of the Foreign Investment Encouraging Agency. After all, the simple question – whether not only is the loss of these jobs, but above all new technologies, which is the essence of what is called re-industrisation, is modernly said re-industrialisation and it has entered the Serbian dictionary, whether it is the essence that we do not have these new technologies, and that is, for example. "Modus" employs 50 people? Is that re-industrialisation? Obviously, Modus is a company owned by a friend of Radulovic. Is this the way to re-industrious Serbia, which leads us to recession and drive foreign investment? I agree with Radulovic when he said capital nonsense was something, but not what he said about foreign investment and foreign investment. I think capital nonsense is what Minister Radulovic is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27646	The word has the People's MP, Olgica Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27647	Thank you. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, I will refer my first question to Mr. Ivica Dacic, the prime minister. Since the "Cyprus Money" affair has been under way again, and it seems to me that the interest in it has not been eroded in the past few years since it was made, since there was no interest in establishing international legal aid in the area of criminal-legal assistance, it is clear that this interest did not exist either on the part of Serbia but on the part of the Republic of Cyprus. I am particularly interested, and I would like the prime minister to answer my question – are the conditions for such a thing today at this point possible? Is there any interest in establishing the currently mentioned international legal aid in criminal and legal matters between our country and the Republic of Cyprus, since it is beyond necessary? I have already asked the question of a filed criminal report, which has been in place since 2004, and the tattoos in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime and on which only one legal action has been taken to this day, and the case is in the pre-taste procedure, clearly, you will say, for reasons why we do not have the co-operation with the Republic of Cyprus mentioned. So my question is to the prime minister -- will the draft law on the confirmation of an agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Cyprus on international legal aid in criminal law ever be found before this assembly? I have my second question for Minister Radulovic. In view of this particular ministry's intention to finally emulate the Republic of Serbia with the laws of the market and what can be somewhat called a reasonable economy in the country of Serbia, is this the ministry's research into the area of harmonisation of state institutions between itself and what is this really about? As the state of Serbia draws and moves behind it for a decade to harmonize itself with the rest of the world, I am primarily thinking about the EU, analyses show that Serbia in the past 10 years in an economy cannot be harmonised with itself. The creation of a favourable environment for any investment, regardless of whether it is domestic investment or foreign investment, cannot be achieved without implementing a comprehensive reform of the state administration, which at this point, we all know, in more than a catastrophic state. Many ministers, above all former Finance Ministers, seem to have found it unclear that potential investors cannot be drawn to a mild-minded view, by cutting red ribbons, but will be interested in investors, for example. the question of whether they will be able to register a car in the Republic of Serbia without creating a whole administrative problem, which is the jurisdiction of the MIP, or whether due to the outdated tax of the branch of the privatised company, let's say, the main firm will be taken away from the PIB, which is certainly the responsibility of the finance ministry. I support Mr Radulovic in his intention to abolish the already mentioned SIEPA, but I have an additional question for him – what about the corrupt Development Fund, which had 60 employees, who gave money to companies mostly on the party line, without checking company credits? Or, worst of all, did he even control those companies that had just received funds from the Development Fund and did they meet their obligation exactly in line with the funds received and are there even considering reforming the Development Fund? Was this fund actually used to draw money for the campaigns of certain political parties? My next question is for Minister Bačević. Namely, they are very specific – in what state is the Kalma Mine presently located? When was the last time the level of uranium was measured in the land and how much was that level of uranium measured, if ever measured, and what was the Ministry's intention on this mine, that is, will it be subject to European security certificates by financing its protection from the budget, or is this ministry planning a study on the possibility of this foreign capital mine being used and exploited? So much, since I don't have time anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27648	Thank you. Next reported for the word, MP Suzana Grubjesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27649	I thank Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, I will ask for a notice and ask questions from Minister of Industry Sasa Radulovic, who, to repeat, has said that he is not a politician and is telling the truth. So let's finally hear the truth. So, first question - who recommended you to be Minister of Industry, was it the Alliance of the Association of Banks Directors of Serbia and are you still a member of the Alliance? Have you been assigned by your colleagues to prepare a new bankruptcy law? According to the draft law you are proposing, the state would no longer have the right to license the bankruptcy directors, but would be doing so itself by the bankruptcy directors joined in the Chamber. Why didn't you initiate the public hearing? It was only today that you posted on the Ministry of Economy's website that tomorrow the round table at the Privatisation Agency was announced on November 13th. Therefore, there is no time limit for public debates, information on the activities planned under the public debate, no time limits for the submission of proposals, suggestions, initiatives and comments as well as other relevant data for its implementation. Do you know that the Agency for the Licensing of Banks is made according to the Canadian model, and you spent one part of your life in Canada. In 2004, the establishment of that agency was supported by the World Bank of EBRD and USAID. Who supports your proposal to create a chamber of bankruptcy directors, and in what countries does such a system exist? Is it true that your private company E Market Capital, which you translated into the office of Minister of Business into a wife, provided services in companies where you were a bankruptcy manager? Do you feel morally responsible for the double-crossed clients of Delta Legal's apartments, since the disciplinaryally larger Agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers against you is leading the proceedings on suspicion that by concealing Delta Legal's assets, you have done a favor to false investors who directly damaged the citizens who are asking for their money today? Why do you insist on avoiding a discussion before a disciplinary major agency for the licensing of bankruptcy managers? Is that why, just three days after you joined the office of Minister of Business, you asked the Director of the Agency for Licensing Bank Managers to resign? Is that why you're asking for the suspension of the Agency for the License of Accountants? What led you to be relieved by the Belgrade Business Court of 15 December 2011, from the position of bankruptcy director of the new highway? In the end, we didn't ask you last time if you reported the property to the Anti-Corruption Agency at the office of the Minister of Business, you did it, but we asked how is it possible that with the proceeds you made as a bankruptcy manager in 15 companies, your property card would be empty? When you look at that property map, you wonder if you're a philanthropist or a gambler, or if you've given false information, when after such a rich career as a bankruptcy manager, you have neither movable nor immobilized property. Since I have asked these questions, also from you, Mr. President of the National Assembly, I expect the answers to arrive within the time limit foreseen for answers, which is 15 days, and I hope that the questions I asked the various institutions last time will also be delivered to the MP within 15 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27650	Next reported for the word, MP Milica Vojic-Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27651	Thank you, Mr. President. Before I ask a question, I want to remind my colleagues as well as the general public what a nickel is. Nikl is one of the most toxic metals and is ranked with uranium, with chromium, with lead, with mercury. Excessive exposure causes allergies, autoimmune diseases, cancers of all tissues and all organs. The start of the government's work was prompted, or immediately from the beginning, by an affair prompted by the government's decision to bind Serbia's economic development exclusively to the exploitation of nickels on its territory. That's when a famous sentence was said that we wouldn't sell and produce cheese and cream and tomatoes forever, but we'd become famous for nickel. At that time, the public received information that a certain Montenegrin firm, "Serbian Nikl", which in the world has no reference on these jobs and has not worked anywhere since, was given the right to do research on the territory of the municipality of Arandelovac-Topol and Vrnjak Banja-Trstenik and at the same time Mokra Gora towards Republika Srpska. It was completely negligible that this was one of the most densely populated parts of the country. It was negligible that the water springs were known there, and the water was 21st century oil, it was a completely negligible aspect of numerous, religious and historical complexes, it was a completely negligible fact that it was a agricultural area, and that agriculture according to the strategic documents of Serbia and what an important business branch. This right to research, to be absolutely precise in 2009, has been given by the former government headed by Minister Dulic, but since this right to investigate has expired these days, this government with Minister Bačević has finally shown that there is no break-up with the protracted policy on several occasions has shown this, but now it has shown this in this way and has declared that Serbia's path, so it has given a new investigative right and has declared that Serbia's progress is indeed a niche of progress plus GMO progress. That's scandalous. At that time, the public and the professional public headed by the Serbian Academy of Sciences against it, citizens were against the exploitation of nickels, local self-government were against the exploitation of nickels, but of course, it did not touch the ministry and Mr. Bačevic. It was not touched by the fact that we are signatories of the Arkus Convention, nor by being bound by decisions and by members of the Nature Protection Act, urban planning documents and similar things. Now the public is rightfully completely upset. We received information that on November 17th in the municipality of Trstenik, in the village of Veluće, a new survey of the same company will be launched and that it will have to be moved, if it enters the exploitation, and the exploitation is a natural path of research, 8000 thousand people from 12 villages. At that time, on November 17th, local self-government with really very interested citizens and the entire professional public held the "Nikle or health" event. It was clear in which direction the state was heading, and in which direction the citizens were heading. Let me get this straight. The company has indeed received an investigative right, so the right to investigate, but investigative law means the right to the championship of exploitation and it is clear that the company that allegedly invests 1.2 billion euros wants to return and fertilise those money. That's the only way to exploit it. From the other party, I have one more thing to say. The then Yugoslav companies "Geo Zavod" and "Geo probe" have done a full survey of this field, and they have clearly recorded that there is a very poor nickel. In fact, "Serbian nickel" does not carry out research, it only buys the right to exploit and it is completely evident. What does the state get out of this job? He gets 3% of his ore rent. Everything else gets a company that does exploitation. What else does Serbia get? It's got a huge gap, because this is poor ore, and it takes a lot of ore to get a nickel. The huge gaps remain above that, these gaps are filled with sulphuric acids, rain that washes away that sulphuric acid and pollutes land, underground and surface water. So, Serbia gets those polluted waters. On the other hand, from these huge crevices evaporates sulfur and sulfur compounds along with rain, they make so-called. Acid rains, so that from Goc, Topola, Wet Gore from tourism will be nothing. So Serbia is getting a disease, because I already said at the beginning where the exposure of nickels leads. My question is for Minister Bačević – why did he ignore what the citizens, the professional public and local self-government think when the new publication of the research solution? The second question, which we from the DSS have been asking for 16 months to Mr Bacević – where is this modern technology he is referring to, where has she given the results, so that we can go, see and say – he is right? Experts say there's no such technology but science fiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27652	The word is from MP Srdjan Dragojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27653	Good afternoon. Dear Chairman, honourable fellow MPs, fellow Members of Parliament, do they speak to you the names "Kosara", "Balkan", "20". October, Odeon, Star? These are movies where many of us had our first meetings, where we went to childhood. These movies, unfortunately, no longer exist. These are just some of the 14 movies "Belgrade Film" in which many of us spent our youth, getting acquainted with the greats of domestic and world film art. However, after the bestial and shallow privatisation of 2007, a certain Nikola Giovanni, now a court verdict confirmed a criminal and formerly adviser to Mladjan Dinkic, bought 14 cinemas, "Belgrade Film" for 9.2m euros. None of these movies work today. Tikuno's brilliant idea of selling five cinemas to Ivica Todorovic, the owner of Idee for 18m euros, took five legendary Belgrade cinemas to non-refund. Under suspicious and never enlightened circumstances, Kozara burned down last year, probably with a flame brought in for the purpose of becoming a casino, butyk, hypermarket or sex shop. In short, none of the 14 movies "Belgrade Film" work anymore. Since 2007 until today, the Ministry of Culture has not said a single word about the destruction of Belgrade's cinema network. City authorities also kept silent, although together with several other film workers I tried to persuade them to prevent the privatisation of "Belgrade Film". We tried to explain and prove to them that "Kozara", "Balkan", "Adriatic" and "Odeon" are cultural goods of general interest, such as Belgrade theatres, for example. Cultural goods in which the state has invested huge capital for decades. But the city government has always shown inexplicable but unobstructed animosity to cinematography, cinemas, except in the case of a few party pets, whose films were not passing anyway. Since the buyer of "Belgrade Film" is a criminal, under the masks of business advisers, the creator of the Capital Market Act and a model businessman sentenced to 36 months in prison, the cinemas "Belgrade Film" are still silent and nothing is done. I refer the question to the Minister of Economy, Sashi Radulovic and Minister of Culture, Ivan Tasovac – what state, or competent state authorities can do with the rest, now ruined central cinemas "Belgrade film", such as "Balkan", "Jadran", "20. October, "Star" and "Odeon"? Can proven harmful privatisation be annulled and these remaining cinemas are restored to their original purpose? The funds for their renewal would not be too large and could include the Ministry of Culture and the Serbian Film Centre. In part, because of the destruction of "Belgrade Film", as well as hundreds of cinemas in Serbia, the cultural public has been prevented from watching domestic films, as well as the works of European cinematography outside shopping malls, where US-commercial garbage is mainly displayed. I note that throughout Europe, an art film rests on distribution in small, individual cinemas partially touched by de-European funds whose members and whose resources are available to us whenever we ask for them. The privatisation of "Belgrade Film" was an example of a greedy robbery decade behind us, which devastated Serbian society to a greater extent than during the 1990s, during wars and sanctions. It also supports the fact that 400 cinemas worked in Serbia during the 1990s, and today there are fewer than 150. Let us show by saving the remaining movies "Belgrade film" that, with joint effort, it is possible to correct the consequences of irresponsible and selfish behavior, the consequences of greed and egoism. Consequences of total concern for the interest of the community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27654	The word has the People's Messenger Srdjan Milivojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27655	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing that after the Law on Amnesty, the SNS and this government have created an atmosphere for the escalation of violence and crime in our society. Citizens rightly ask – was this Law on Amnesty the main generator, the driver, the engine of the wave of violence and the most violent crime that rocked the streets of Serbia like a tsunami? Such an escalation of violence on the streets of Serbia has not been seen since the 1990s. People who have spent decades in prison are easily amnesty given pardons. I wouldn't be surprised if they followed the pardons and medals, but these people come back as perpetrators of serious crimes, and that's what this Leskovec case warns us about. The head of the Zabela squadron these days also requires pardon. The media mentions his alleged threats and alleged denials of threats in which he allegedly blackmails the state with classified files. It's about Radet Markovic, a man who knows a lot about his 90s comrades, and I wouldn't be surprised if he were pardoned. Although it would be much more useful for me to once and for all in this country to pass a law on opening secret files, so that no one could ever threaten to blackmail the state with classified files. Unfortunately, your ghastly statements, announcements about dealing with organised crime and drug dealers have turned into silent whispers and beating criminals and hooligans, because hooligans and criminals in this country will decide when there will be parades of pride, derby, election and under such circumstances the citizens have been forced to self-organize in the fight against drug dealers. I ask – will any of the competent state authorities, the Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior, call on representatives of the "Save Saint" Association of Lazarets, who were forced to self-organize in the fight against drug dealers, to give them protection because people are obviously exposed to threats? Is it possible in Tuesday's impression that the first vice president of the government is visiting to see the contribution that these people exist and that no one says a word – I support these people, I give them strong support to fight the drug dealers? Is it possible that these people were not invited by any competent state institution except a few police officers from the Lazarevec police station? I'm telling these people they're not alone, as well as all the citizens who are fighting crime. We are MPs with them, and I hope all members of the Defence and Security Committee. I'm calling them if they're threatened to come to the National Assembly. They'll get protection from MPs here because the state has to deal with criminals. These people, members of the St. Sava Association from Lazarets, are employers and taxpayers, and as taxpayers and employers, both the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister and all members of the security services have the right to live in a safe country. Finally, I have a question for the government – why did you embarrass us like this in Kosovo Mitrovica? What is the next humiliation that Serbian citizens will experience? On Sunday, 7:00 p.m., the ceremony was announced that Serbia had won in Kosovo Mitrovica. After two hours of the same drill, I thought that some people would break the chest bone that they hit on their chests, bitterly cried over fate that the OSCE had taken the ballot boxes to Kosovo to count the election results. That's what it looks like when you start with lies about the 2012 election theft. That's what it looks like when you bring out sacks of allegedly forged ballots in front of a court building. That's what it looks like when you know and say you know who broke boxes in Kosovo's Mitrovica in the first round of elections and then the public and the prosecution don't know who those actors are until today. What does it look like when you kidnap DS members and take them to SNS? Then the world doesn't believe you're able to organise the election in a normal way. Especially since this world, just as we from the DS have not forgotten the election shame of 1996 and 2000 and the electoral theft. I ask the government - why did Serbia have to be humiliated in this way and in this way? Finally, if Dragan Gilas had not been removed from the mayor's post, he would surely have received the citizens of Lazarets. Unfortunately, you have been overcome by an insatiable desire for even greater power. You have introduced a forced administration of the city of Belgrade and the citizens of Belgrade have no one to seek protection from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27656	The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27657	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to appoint, and I would also like to say that I am asking the finance minister to tell me, the citizens of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia, exactly how much is the task of the city of Belgrade, along with all public enterprises in the city of Belgrade? I think that I, the citizens of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade, must be told what we are going to return, and perhaps until 2038, all thanks to the mayoral leadership of Dragan Gilas. I want to ask a question - why didn't he run the city as his businesses? How is it possible that only one of his companies, that only one of his companies in just a few years, while he was mayor of Belgrade, earned 38 billion and 958 million dinars of traffic, while he had the money of Serbian citizens and owed both the city and public enterprises? How will the city function in the coming period under the burden of such duties? How will public enterprises function? Will we be able to provide fuel for city public transport? Shall we wait for winter with warm radiators? I think the functioning of these public enterprises depends on the functioning of the city. Also, I would like to ask another question concerning the Ministry of Construction, which refers to the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard. I want the minister, i.e. the Ministry to examine whether there are elements of the crime in this reconstruction process, above all in the selection of the firm that carried out this reconstruction, since there was certainly one of the most unfavourable bidders in the tender itself, and until today, there was no handover of the works done. I wonder why that is? Why? Have the deadlines been broken? Have these bad bids been broken up in that tender? I think that citizens need to know where their money went and that they will certainly answer these two questions clearly, so I ask these two ministers to send me the answers to these questions as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27658	With no more reports, I would like to inform the MPs that they have been prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Cedomir Protic, Dejan Rajčić, Dubravka Filipovski, Dijana Vukomanovic, Stefana Miladanovic, Miletic Mihajlovic, Stošić Milorad and Gordana Komic. We continue the search in the details of the 1st item of the agenda – the proposal of the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors just to wait for the Minister to arrive. We're going back to work. National MP Milisav Petronijevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word has a folk MP, Milica Vojić Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27659	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have submitted an amendment to which I asked for this Article to be changed to paragraph 1 point 2 and read – the Supreme Court in Valjevo, the Court of Fundamental Court in Valjevo, the Court of Fundamental Court in Mionica, the Court of Fundamental Court in Ljig and the Court of Fundamental Court in Ub. In your explanation, you told me that it did not suit your concept, and therefore you did not accept the amendment. That's why I wrote the amendment, because I wanted you to change the concept. What was I actually looking for? I asked that there be a basic court in the League. The explanation for that is in the number of cases. There are three judges there and for a period of nine months there were 2,426 cases, or 808 cases per judge, without criminal cases that were tried in Valjevo. On the other hand, there is a renovated building in Ljig. You were talking yesterday about the elements of what courts look like in other places. There's a really very well-reputed facility out there that can use it, with several courtrooms, with really extraordinary conditions. On the other hand, the circumstances of the League on the Ibari Master's Office are also important. It is also located on the corridors of future highways, so these are all elements that we had to consider when we made a decision on whether there should be a basic court in Liga. As a result, I felt that Article 4 point 2 should be amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27660	Member of the 4th Amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a Messenger of the people, Riza Halimi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27661	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is said that the bill does not call into question the use of language and letters of national minorities in proceedings before senior courts, since this right is guaranteed by the Constitution and the law. This is what it says in the explanation of my amendment to the Higher Court in Presevo and Bujanovac. However, there are a few fewer inhabitants than the Pirot court district. The order was where Presevo has two to three times the population, I mean in municipalities where basic courts are allowed to return, let's see, when there's a few fewer inhabitants, if there's a chance that one judicial institution is approved, but we see that it won't. However, I'm going back to what there was a lot of debate last night. Can a court case be conducted in minority language? We know the Constitution and the law guarantee it, but what if we don't have it in practice? What in the case of the Grand Court in Vranj, where there is no judge, is already no employee, and there is no translator? If the Constitution guarantees, how can it be implemented if we have such discriminatory practice against one minority in the judicial system? As long as this climate does not increase the participation of Albanians in judicial institutions, rather than eliminate them from existing presence, then I see no way to improve or eliminate this existing discrimination at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27662	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27663	I thank the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, indeed, the double archaics and unpreciseness certainly won't take us anywhere, and that's where I fully agree. Especially when you have a situation where, for example, in one part of state territory, a mixed population or a predominantly national minority lives, boycotts an invitation from the state to make a list. Then you organizely invite people not to list, and then after a few years or at some point you're able to manipulate something that's officially unknown. If we had done so, you would have said, you know the list of only a few thousand Albanians in Presevo, because they organised a boycott of the census organised by the Republic of Serbia. Then we could say that according to the results of that list, there shouldn't even be a mistrial. What is currently happening in Presevo, and in Bujanovac when it comes to, some kind of reaction to this bill, is one flagrant political manipulation and attempt to manipulate, so also to the citizens, as well as manipulation in talks with the republican authorities. I think I'm very clear yesterday, during the debate, when we talked about misdemeanor and basic courts saying that the bill is one balanced compromise solution that is in line with the country's economic capabilities on the one hand, and the need for the functioning of the judiciary on the other hand. And that the key to this balanced solution is precisely in the fact that in Presevo there will be, as there is today a misdemeanor court, which in Bujanovac will have a basic court for Bujanovac and Presevo and which is a system that will be able to function significantly better. We now come to an amendment that provides for the establishment of a higher court for the two municipalities in Southeast Serbia. Applying this criterion would mean that the city of Belgrade should have between five and ten higher courts. That would mean exactly that. Please let us be rational and not use irrational arguments here, when in one serious way we talk about such important things. According to this approach, the Belgraders are the most reprehensible. People went out and on the list, they were all listed. We know how many there are. Did we have a nice conversation yesterday and I said -- is there a problem on the ground, in the official use of language and letters in the judiciary when it comes to two municipalities of Southeast Serbia in the Pcinj County? I said yes, there are problems. Why do these problems exist? Because they haven't been solved in years. Is that the responsibility of the state? It is to a good extent and the responsibility of the state. Are we working on solving these problems? We're working on solving these problems. If someone is going to raise tension in Presevo, in Bujanovac for the reason that they expect to accept some of the demands being made in such a way as to blackmail the state. The state won't be blackmailed by anyone. I am saying this because yesterday I said that my secretary of state was in talks with representatives of all Albanian political parties in Presevo and Bujanovac. The way these parties' demands are presented, is the way we can talk, but they won't give results, I'm confident of that. Is that something would produce results, in the first place it requires understanding between those who talk. So I ask you that those who make a request be truly realistic and realistic. There are not only Presevo and Bujanovac in Serbia. Give me an example where two municipalities have a higher court. The one and only. Is it anywhere in Serbia? It doesn't exist anywhere. In particular, there is no formation of courts by ethnic principle. Of course, the task force respected the fact that national minorities also live in an area. This was the main reason why the working group proposed the establishment of a basic court in Bujanovac for the Bujanovac and Presevo municipalities. I think it's within the limits of our current possibilities a good solution. Let's be realistic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27664	Replica, Riza Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27665	Mr. Minister, compared to the previous day, the only newspaper that seems to be on the basis of your Secretary of State's knowledge on the ground is that Albanians boycotted the list and that you actually consider Presevo and Bujanovac empty space, and above all Presevo. According to this false data, I say it is fake, there are only three thousand inhabitants and only 416 Albanians and Bujanovac only 244 Albanians. According to this logic, Mr. Minister, schools should be abolished, and the municipality should be abolished, because there are no municipalities with three thousand inhabitants. If there are 7,600 students in primary and secondary schools, give people, whether they are existing, so you need to keep those schools, or by this logic, all of this should be deleted as you do with basic institutions because the Albanians are not listed, so they can't even have a unit. A municipality with 40,000 inhabitants, and you put it under what you talked about for hours yesterday and last night, about municipalities and where you came from, from 12 to 16 thousand inhabitants. They have more attention and higher levels than municipalities with over, in these moments, 40,000 inhabitants. What's that now? I want to talk to the argument. You're out of Belgrade. What kind of Belgrade, that's a special problem. Let's compare Presevo to Belgrade. Come on, with these municipalities I'm talking about, which are three four times smaller than Presheva and which have basic courts, and Preshevo doesn't even have a unit. Whether you have an argument or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27666	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27667	First, I'd like you to tell me, which is why someone claims there are 40,000 people down there. I believe in the data provided by the official authorities of the Serbian state, and the fact that someone boycotted the list now scratches on all sides of what it does. Did I invite anyone to boycott the list? Did I invite anyone to civil disobedience? No, but we'll use the state of Serbia when we can, and when we do, we won't. So then we don't respond to the list so we can blackmail, manipulate different international organisations, complain about endangering our rights, but when something needs to be obtained, then everything is fine. So, knowing that the list is boycotted and the facts are saying, if you say there are over 7,000 students in primary schools, that there are about three and a half thousand people, it's clear that there are some things that don't add up. As the minister who heads the justice, baratam and data that are judicial statistics and these data say that for the municipalities of Presevo and Bujanovac, the basic court in Bujanovac for the area of the two municipalities is an excellent solution. More than the number of cases and inflows indicate, especially in relation to the judge's duties, if we're looking at it. Someone may not like it, but it's official statistics. Someone may boycott the court's work, as they boycotted the list yesterday, but on the one hand, a boycott gives birth to one consequence that no one likes. I'm saying again, the Presevo Criminal Court, and Presevo is one of the few municipalities that only has a Criminal Court in its territory, not a department, but a Criminal Court, and no one will say that. I didn't hear you complimented somewhere, and that's the solution that was inherited from 2008. So, just one court for the area of one municipality. Given that it's a court today, not more than an authority of the administration, so given that there is an important border crossing, that criminal matter is well covered by it, I don't hear it from you anywhere. I'm just hearing a story about discriminatory practice, about a violation of the convention, about me not knowing what. We can talk about it, too, but I assure you, if we talked about it both at that level and in such a way, that those who claim that it was all hurt, we wouldn't feel so good in the end. The state of Serbia, in accordance with its capabilities, provides and guarantees rights to its citizens, whether they are members of the majority people, whether they are members of the minority people. How come these problems only have one minority on this level? There are always problems, sometimes it's a textbook problem, and sometimes official use of language and letters, and somewhere it's a problem of participation within state institutions. I'm here because I think problems should be solved and I always solve them in accordance with my abilities and authority. Try any kind of politicization or manipulation of something like this, it absolutely doesn't stand. I already said yesterday, Bujanovac is a place inhabited so close to Vranje, that you can say without a problem, you can still go to Vranje. No, we put in this proposal, there will be a basic court in Bujanovac, although regardless of the number of inhabitants, because often the number of residents does not immediately point to a large number of cases. There is no correctness between these two figures. I would really be pleased if I saw from Presevo or Bujanovac, if I had received a report that a good candidate had come and passed the exam for a public notebook, passed that exam and tomorrow that he could be appointed as a public notary down there, so that those services provided at this time by a court, or a judicial unit in one of those two places, the most, and these are questions of different overs, that then a citizen could come and do to a public notebook. I don't see those candidates. Yesterday we talked and talked about judges and prosecutors' assistants and interns, and I said, "There's going to be a competition, when I get into office, I asked to break up with these competitions, because it was a very bad practice, and I think I gave one really reasonable view of this problem then. Should the entire state stand until one or two municipalities are satisfied, should the entire judiciary suffer until it is satisfied? No, I don't. Here's a proposal for a solution, and you can say, we don't like that proposal, we think we should do it better. When someone else runs this resort, I let him say something like that. I think this is the most rational and best possible solution right now. And political blackmail, so we go to Pristina for an opinion and for instructions, so we come to Belgrade to complain to the representatives of international organisations, and then go back to Presevo or Bujanovac and try to blackmail the state, to whom will it bring good? I think he can just come back as a boomerang. Is that going to change a normal citizen's life down there? I don't think so. So I ask you to be rational here, to take this solution that is proposed here from all angles and to understand, at this point is the most rational and best possible solution, and then sit down and talk nicely, how do we include members of Albanian nationality who ended up as good law school students, who passed a judicial exam, to include them in the work of judicial institutions, state institutions, in the area of these two municipalities. The state of Serbia pays for the Faculty of Law from Nis, Medvedja. He's holding classes in Albanian, translation, and what isn't a professor of Albanians? Were there any candidates? Let's see who applied for an assistant competition or for a professor, for extraordinary or regular professors in Nis. I don't know if anyone can attack the state of Serbia and say something about it, because before many surrounding countries, the state of Serbia has organised a course to the level of doctoral studies in Albanian. It founded the first Albanian Institute on its territory. She founded the Academy of Science and Arts, where most were academics of Albanian nationality and while neighbouring Albania suffered a stronger communist terror in Hoxhi's time, where did the Albanian intellectual elite education? It's not on Mars, it's in Serbia. As smart and as good as that was, we don't want to talk about it here, but we can talk somewhere else. Respect for Serbia is more than incorrect and an attempt to manipulate daily-political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27668	Mr. Halimi, I think this is already losing sense, we're spinning around in circles. The minister was clear, and I don't think you have a basis for replication. Thank you. (The People's MP, Riza Halimi, is asking for word from the post according to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27669	Mr. Chairman, I don't think you have any basis for this kind of behavior, but it's in your authority. Mr. Secretary said so much that I can't and this time that I have, to give all the answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27670	Tell me, please, which member is it?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27671	Article 107. I don't think there's any point in asking me to express my satisfaction that in 2008, Presevo was abolished and basically...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27672	Mr. Halimi, please, I gave you my word based on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Use that right. Please listen to me till the end. Do not abuse this right to harm the Rules of Procedure in the sense of replication. Let me remind you, the breach of the Rules of Procedure could have been done by me, and in that sense, you would have convinced me that I had hurt the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27673	We've heard a lot of things here that don't stand, they're not true, and I need to make my point. If I can't, then what am I doing here, what is my presence for, if I can't express it here? Gentlemen, to be asked to thank me for having abolished the first-degree judicial authorities and remaining only a court of offense, I think it's one of the first grounds. Secondly, it is said here that he insists on taking some ultimate measures to...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27674	I have to warn you again, you're still doing the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27675	What's the problem?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27676	If you're not able to explain what a replication injury was in, then please, the smartest thing is...
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27677	The injury is because you didn't intervene when you put out a lot of incorrect things here at my expense, what else am I supposed to say?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27678	Thank you, Mr. Halimi. I'm only obliged to give an answer to a replicator's injury. What the minister was saying was the result of your replica and discussion, and he was only responding to your replica and to your facts, which he extended them and with reasoned facts, calling, most importantly, for you that only in dialogue can the problems be solved. That's the whole message and I'm asking you not to argue with me out loud, you're not going to do anything with it, and we're moving on. [[People's ambassador Riza Halimi throws it out of place, but you can't hear it.]] Thank you. Member of the 4th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Nikolic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments in the same text were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic and Mladen Grujic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27679	The President-in-Office, Mr. Minister, of the amendment to Article 4 that I have submitted is the natural consequence of the amendments that I have submitted to Article 3 because if the amendment is adopted and the basic courts in Alexandrovac and Varvarin are established, it is logical to change the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in Krusevec and that the Higher Court in Krusevec was competent and covered both the territory of the basic court in Alexandrovac and the Court of Justice in Varvarin, but since it is unlikely that the first amendment will be adopted, then no second amendment will be adopted. There's something else I want to say. Mr. Minister, you set a good example here yesterday with a school in a village with a student and there's no need to spend money on a student and of course you're right. Also, you have to make sure that Serbia is empty, that from many parts of the country, that the villages are being shut down, that the town's population is being reduced, that the population is being reduced. One way to keep people is to give them as many institutions as possible, not to have to leave their places, to exercise their rights in other cities where these institutions exist. That's why I suggested yesterday and again that there must be more basic courts in Serbia, that there must be more people working in these courts, that people come back from the places they came to Belgrade to study. Allow young people to work in their places, to be elected judges, to be elected prosecutors, to be able to work as lawyers. Then people will come back, then there will be more children, and we won't have to close schools or courts or other cities. There's a question here again yesterday who's going to pay all that, what's the cost? I think the most expensive empty villages are the most expensive ornaments that are not processed, that it's expensive for people to leave the cities to Belgrade. On the one hand, you have empty spaces, on the other hand you have overpopulated Belgrade where there is no good infrastructure and the simple city of Belgrade is built, I think, a million, a million and a half inhabitants, and there are over two. So make an effort, think again and allow people to do jobs in the cities they once left. We make it possible for people to come back, to settle Serbia, because if we don't, we'll have a lot of problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27680	Thank you. National MP Nikola Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 4th Amendment in the same text was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and prim. Dr Ninoslav Girić and together the MPs of the people Snezana Stojanović Plassic, Aleksandar Pejčić, Živojin Stankovic and Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment in the same text were tabled by Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenović and joint MPs doc. Dr Zoran Radovanovic and Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word is Milisav Petronijevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27681	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I just want to make a few comments for the public. Men are mentioned, amendments to the article, and there's no telling what's going on. In order to avoid dilemmas and confusion, the amendment submitted by my colleagues Zoran Radovanovic and Dejan Radenkovic refer to the area, establishing the area of jurisdiction of the Higher Court in Negotina as a consequence of the proposal from those colleagues, when they proposed that the basic court be established in Kladovo. So when he was a member of the 3rd, who talked about basic courts and judicial units, it was a crucial debate. This amendment and the subsequent amendments are due to these amendments tabled in Article 3. So, when it comes to the proposal to form the basic court in Kladovo, then these amendments that cover Kladovo by the High Court, of course, are responsible for the public prosecutor's office. They are the same as the amendments when it comes to the proposal to form the General Court in Apatino. The following amendments concern them, and when it comes to the proposal to form the basic court in the Smederjevska Palanca, the next amendments refer to covering both the court and the Sopot. So, in one sentence, I'd like to say, we've brought forth, or my colleagues, an argument as to why these basic courts should be formed. Of course, the government, the ministry in charge, made their argument. What's the key here? If those amendments are adopted, then these have to be adopted, because someone has to cover the area of that basic court and on the side of the high court and the prosecution. If they don't adopt, then this is completely groundlessly further, these amendments relating to changing the area of senior court and the establishment of public prosecutors. Why did I say all this? The main argument we have made in the debate on courts and judicial units, these now following amendments are only the result and we will not further explain any of these subsequent amendments for reasons of rationality, because they are all the consequences of those previous amendments, so that we do not waste time. You have an argument, too, so do we. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27682	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bajro Gegic and Enis Imamovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27683	This amendment of mine is the logical consequence of yesterday's amendment, which I asked for Kovin to be courted, because it is a multinational municipality with 40,000 inhabitants, with a 130-year-old court tradition, before it was taken away from us, with a building that was purposely built and which has few municipalities in Serbia, with quality personnel. Most importantly, I have pointed out the problem of intertwining the powers of the M.P. Panchevo and the D.A.'s office in Smedereva when it comes to criminal acts. I'm afraid it will have a negative impact on the safety and security of citizens in the Kovin municipality. That's why I suggest that the amendment be passed to get Kovin court and that the jurisdiction of the High Court be in Panchev, not Smederev. These problems were also discussed by Mr. Srdjan Mikovic, a colleague, saying that there would be problems in the entire judiciary in the territory of South Banat if our amendments were not adopted. In Panchevo, there are currently about 20% of the criminal cases that are from the territory of the Kovin municipality and it is my question – will these processes now stop and return to the beginning? Is that where we can talk about efficiency? No amendments to the MPs were adopted yesterday, and therefore a third of the municipalities in Serbia will be without a court and without a judicial unit, i.e. they will have no access to justice. That's when I said and now I repeat that Serbia is empty. It will continue in the areas of the interior without institutions, and the state must allow them to return, because as institutions leave these places, what is most valuable, and these are young and educated people. They will not return from themselves, but the state must allow them to return, and by adopting such and similar laws we will not do so at all, but those places from the interior will only continue to be empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27684	Mr. Mikovic, your MP group has 15 seconds, just so you know, before I give you my word, for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27685	Reporting under Article 104. By name I was called by Mrs. Novkovic, because my discussion was misread.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27686	I'll accept my mistake. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27687	Mrs. Ana Novkovic personally called me and misread my discussion. I think it would be a good idea if there was a basic court in Covin. However, my discussion was, not with regard to the establishment of a court in Kovin, but that the judicial unit in Kovin was bound to Pancheva. Why? On March 1, 2013, of 2385 criminal cases in Panchev, 453 were metal objects. So it's a similar number now. Please, if you can calm down the representatives of the executive government, so the MPs can hear me. Anyway, it's probably about 400 or 450 items from Kovin now. On January 1st, all these items will be packed and going to Smederevo. Then there were 1658 items PP1, P2, P1 are working disputes, P2 family, of which 423 metal items. It's possible they're going to judge the same court-law as the second court, I'm talking about it when it goes to the basic court in Smederev. Now I ask the question - which items will go from the beginning? That's where I didn't collect those cases from the Supreme Court, where, for example, Some criminal cases have been heard by 20 witnesses from whom some from abroad and now, turkey dots do not apply, unless convicted by 1 January, we leave from the beginning. Large costs, meaning 453 cases in guilt, 423 after the March 1st 2013 review, are probably similar now. That's why, with all the other arguments, I think it's convenient to accept the proposal, if not the basic court, then at least the judicial units at Panchev's.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27688	Members of the 4th amendment were jointly submitted by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Zvonimir Stevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Bojana Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Mirna Kosanovic submitted to Article 4 of the amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is by MP Mirna Kosanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27689	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, members of the ministry, respected fellow MPs, with all due respect to the reasons given by the minister and members of the ministry, which we had had the opportunity to hear previously on the Committee on Justice, and previously on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, given yesterday's discussion and the need to extend the number of courts, and my discussion referred to courts in India and Baja Basta. In view of the sensitivity of matter and the hierarchy of the judiciary, this amendment to Article 4, which refers to the Supreme Court in Sremska Mitrovica for the areas of the General Court in Ruma, the General Court in Sremska Mitrovica, the General Court in Stari Pazova, the Court of Justice of Indija and the General Court in Šid, was also required to be brought to the attention of the Court of First Instance in Požega, the Court of First Instance in Priboj, the General Court in Prepolje, the Court of Justice in Užica, the Court of First Instance in Baja Basta. This amendment was added to the jurisdiction of the High Court in Sremska Mitrovica and the General Court in India and the jurisdiction of the Great Court in Užica, the Court of Justice of Baja Basta, since the establishment of these two basic courts was proposed in the amendment to Article 3. It's a bill of law. The Supreme Court in Sremska Mitrovica should be for the territory of the Main Court of Indjia and the Supreme Court in Užica should be for the area of the Basic Court in Baja Basta. We have also proposed the same solutions for the main public prosecutor's office, but since this is contained in Article 9 we will discuss this when it comes to the agenda of Article 9. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27690	The People's MP, Milica Dronjak, submitted to the 4th Amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 4 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoltan Peck. The word is from the People's Messenger Lasslo Varga.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27691	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our amendment is the consequence of our disagreement with the justice network in Gornji Potis, so to speak, in the area of the municipalities of Kanjiž, Senta, Ada, Choka and the New Duke. On the one hand, we think that the proposed judicial network, part of that network in that part of Serbia, or Vojvodina, is not rational for geographical reasons. The new Duke is 50 kilometers away from Kikinda, Choka from the Queen 38, and both belong to the Main Court in Kikinda and the Higher Court in Zrenjanin. Contrary to the fact that both Choka and Novi Knezevec are much closer to the basic court in Senta, which will be based, on the other hand, they are much closer to the Greater Court in Subotica. We suggested, I talked about it two or three times, a few versions of the amendment, as far as this part of the judicial network is concerned. With one amendment, we proposed the establishment of a basic court in Kanjiža for the municipality of Kanjiža and Novi Knezevic, i.e. the establishment of a basic court in Senta for the municipalities of Ada and Choko. Our second amendment or other option was to expand the area of the basic court in Senta, which will be based on the municipalities of Novi Knezevac and Choko. In addition to those circumstances, so geographical distances, I think there are a lot of reasons or there were a lot of reasons for one or another version of our amendment to be accepted, but it didn't happen. We don't understand, and here I think it would still be necessary to explain, why Choca and the New Prince are gravitating towards Kickinda versus these geographical distances that I was talking about? It's important on the one hand about the rejection of this amendment. On the other hand, what is more important and I want to focus on this part of my discussion, is the rejection of the possibility that there is any kind of judicial institution in Kanjiž municipality, therefore, either the basic court or the judicial unit, since our third amendment, the third version, practically referred to the continued functioning of the Kanjija judicial unit. Yesterday I had a chance to see the data on the inflow of objects for the Kanjiz municipality. I want to thank you, Mr. Minister, for showing you that information. That's what I was talking about in the first place. I think we'd be in a much better situation if all this information, with a reason for the bill, was sent to the MPs, not only for this court but, generally, for all courts, for all municipalities, for all judicial units, because then we'd be in a situation likely to be even more argued. What was extremely good about yesterday's information is that you gave me the opportunity to determine the reasons why the municipality court in Kanjija in 2007, 2009, had a relatively high number of cases, and why at this point the situation is completely different. It's about the next one. Since the suspension of the municipality court in Kanjija, the municipal court has ceased to operate and there has been practically one practice in which the parties from Kanjija submitted their demands, of course, to their lawyers' advice to the Court of Justice in Subotica. What is the fact that, for this reason, this court statistics, at least as far as Kanjija is concerned, is responsible, I say, untrustworthy. What would be reliable is to do one statistic that would take into account the residence of parties in proceedings. In fact, more or less all of the parties with residence in Kanjiza had their demands and their litigation procedures in front of the basic court in Subotici, because, simply, Kanjizagravitati towards Subotica, on the one hand, because they did not want to wait for months until the traveling judge from Subotica came to Kanjiž and held a hearing. I don't know if this situation is repeated in other areas, and I believe so. And if not, and if so, I think that should be the reason why again, as far as the Kanjiz municipality is concerned, consider our amendment. If, once again, you could compare the data on the residence of the parties, you'd come to the conclusion that there are no fewer disputes, there are several disputes that are being conducted among the citizens of Kanjija, only these claims were not submitted at the Office of the Kanjija Judicial Unit. That's why at this point you have one case a month in the Kanjija court unit, a litigation case, not 35, as it was three or four years ago. What is an additional argument to consider this amendment once again is the fact that if a judicial unit is now abolished in Kanjija, all these people will have to travel to Senta. If a judicial unit in Kanjija were not abolished, all those people who have submitted their claims before the basic court in Subotica would return to Kanjiz. It's just that Kanjiža doesn't gravitate towards Senti. People do not have the custom of going, doing, or doing, their own needs. This is another argument, our argument that is entirely related to this amendment of ours, but perhaps more important is the part of the argument that supports the founding, or existence of a judicial unit in Kanjija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27692	The 4th amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Nebojsa Zelenovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic submitted to the 4th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Sanda Raskovic-Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27693	Thank you. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with this amendment attached to the amendment to the main court in Kosovo Mitrovica, we treat the Supreme Court in Kosovo Mitrovica as DSS for the main court in Kosovo Mitrovica. Namely, we are determined against the abolition of this court. We believe that the existing situation should be maintained, not only because there is a building, and the costs would then be minimal, or would not be, but more importantly, it is in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which, as we all know, says that the judicial system, or the judicial system, is unique in the territory of the entire Republic. For you, Mr. Minister, I have one question. I'm a psychiatrist by profession, and my legal expertise gets to the maximum level of forensic psychiatry. As a citizen, I'm interested in the following. Hypothetically, if the guilty are found, and we hope they will, those who broke boxes in Kosovo Mitrovica 15, 16 days ago and to determine that they are from central Serbia, and one part is from Kosovo Mitrovica, where will they be tried, by which laws will they be tried? Will they be tried by the laws of the Republic of Kosovo or will they be tried by the laws of the Republic of Serbia? Whom will they complain to, whose higher judgment will they complain to? Will it be a Serbian court, not in terms of the community of municipalities, but in terms of the Republic of Serbia's laws or will it appeal to a court in Pristina? What will be the court of the last appeal, will it be a court in Belgrade or Pristina? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27694	On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 4. The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27695	On behalf of the official representative, we accept the amendment of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27696	I find that the minister has accepted this amendment and has become an integral part of the law. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić together submitted the 5th amendment. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's Messenger, Miodrag Djidic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27697	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, my amendment refers to the Kruševac getting an economic court. According to the previous laws, Kruševac received a court unit of a commercial court that began working two years ago. Unfortunately, the results of the work of the judicial unit are very bad, almost nothing is done, so that businessmen from the race district have to go back to the Kingdom to exercise some of their right to participate in economic disputes and, more importantly, all bankruptcy proceedings, which, unfortunately, take place in the King’s court. As a result, we believe that Kruševac as a center, the center of the Rasin district, should be given an economic court, because 60% of the cases in the Privred Court in the Kingdom, over 60% are from the Rasin County. I think that's enough reason for Kruševac to get a court, especially since certain municipalities in Rasin County, such as Bruce and Cicevic, are over 100 kilometers away from Kraljev. So, for reasons of rationality and for lack of need, I think the minister should adopt this amendment and get a business court. I don't have to say that Krushevac used to be a business center with a strong industry. Unfortunately, like all cities in Serbia, Kruševac today does not enjoy this status, but I am sure that in some future period, Kruševac and other cities in Serbia will heal their economy, start to function normally, to employ people. In order to achieve all of this, I think we should take a step forward, and therefore, Minister, I suggest that you grant Kraševec the status of the economic court, especially since Cačak has it, which is only 36 kilometers away from the Kingdom, with a weaker industry than Kruševac and Rasinski County.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27698	The 5th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27699	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, very interesting that you did not respond to my colleague Sandi Raskovic Ivić. We'll see if you answer me, too, or you won't say anything again. The Democratic Party of Serbia and this amendment is demanding that you do not abolish the courts at KIM, because this bill is obviously a kind of predecessor to the introduction of the Brussels Agreement into the Serbian state's legal system. This is because the bill is based on the Brussels Agreement and is not based on the Serbian Constitution. Because if this bill were to be based on the Constitution of Serbia, then you should know that the judiciary is unique and that you cannot tear it apart by leaving out a network of KIM courts. But since this bill is based on the Brussels Agreement, you follow that order from Article 10. The Brussels agreement that the judiciary will be integrated and functioning under Kosovo's legal system. Mr. Justice Minister, how does the Kosovo legal system sound? It would be very interesting if you told us now. Do you know what justice will then be handed over to the KIM courts? You use the argument and you say that your courts will continue to work. But if they continue to work, why are they not mentioned in this bill? Let me ask you this: these judges, these courts within the KiM legal system, tell me, who will they swear to? Does the president of the National Assembly, or the president of the false state of Kosovo, as is now happening at Kim? These are the real questions we need you to answer here, because it is clear that by abolishing the KIM courts, you are killing Serbia's state in the southern Serbian province. For what? Because the courts are the backbone of Serbian state institutions and simply this bill requires you to respect the current law and that the courts we have there and remain, because that is the only way we can preserve our country of Serbia at KIM. Simply, these institutions are the end of which the state of Serbia is today held when it comes to KIM. Is it better if these judges take an oath before the president of the National Assembly in your presence, or is it better if they take an oath before Albanian separatists? That is the question, and that is the amendment I have tabled on behalf of the DSS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27700	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27701	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am really trying to answer all the questions raised by honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. If I answered every question, not wait one moment to answer more questions at the same time, it would take us a lot more time. Knowing that there is one parliamentary group that knows in particular that it objectes because the Rules of Procedure allow me to speak longer than the MPs say, here I will take the opportunity to answer these questions as well. So the first question was raised -- which court would be in charge in case the persons who interfered with the election process in Kosovo Mitrovica were prosecuted, breaking ballot boxes, entering polling stations? Under the criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia is able to judge and prosecute each citizen, and a delegation of competence for the handling of a particular matter can be authorised by any court that is really in charge of the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The second stage would be the direct authority of the Court of Appeal in relation to that court which would judge in the first degree. So it is possible for the delegation of jurisdiction to obtain that jurisdiction from the Supreme Court in the King, or from Nis. In the first case, the second instance would be the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, in the second case the Court of Appeal in Nis. It could be the Supreme Court in Belgrade, I don't see any obstacles to it, but in any case the VCC president would decide on that delegation, because he is authorized to do so. Since a prosecutor's investigation is conducted under the new Code of Criminal Procedure, a binding instructions could be made by the Republic Public Prosecutor when it comes to conducting an investigation. That's about the first question. As for the whole set of other issues, which began with a quote – the introduction of the Brussels Agreement, although I did not mention this act for one single time, except when I was asked a question from a parliamentary group that introduced a little more than 10 years ago into legal traffic and introduced even the possibility of full derogation of the Constitution of a state through a political agreement, such as the Belgrade Agreement that was concluded, if I did not cheat in 2003, which was concluded by the then president of the SRJ, the man who swore to the Constitution, and then by his signature of the Brussels Agreement with the man who was only a few years ago the Secretary General of NATO at the time of the bombing of the SRJ, then the then president of the SRJ put his signature on a political agreement with the former secretary general of NATO and abolished the SRJ. I don't think we have a single example in our constitutional history that someone with a mere signature has abolished the constitution of a state. It's still about someone who swore on the constitution of that state. It's still about someone that the citizens of that country elected in the direct elections as president of the country. So I didn't mention a single agreement and one who says that this bill on the seats and areas of the courts, public prosecutors are abolishing the courts at KIM, it's telling the truth. Or he was reading the law in part. Or he did not want to read the transitional and final provisions of that law which very clearly state that until a special law is passed that will regulate the judicial and prosecutorial network in the AP KIM area continue to apply the provisions of the Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, Official Messenger of the RS, 116/08. It is very clear, and with a fellow MP, I had a debate in principle about where he tended, it seemed, but I don't want to believe in someone's bad intentions, in part read those transitional and final provisions, so somehow he missed reading to say that the courts in the territory of the AP KiM continue to work. So again, I appeal to those who are willing to reasonfully criticise the bill, to sit down to read the bill from the beginning to the end. There's one thing that's really about what we've been talking about for the past few minutes, and it's been said yesterday, so yesterday I didn't answer that question from my fellow MP group, which is exactly where these questions came from. It is said that in Article 182. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia states that the Republic of Serbia has AP Vojvodina, AP Kosovo and Metohija, and that the position of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija is regulated by the Law on Essential Autonomy, which is adopted under the procedure foreseen for the change of the Constitution. Already in the next Article 183, if I am not mistaken, the competences of the autonomous province are cited, that the body of jurisdiction prescribed by the Constitution as the express competences of the autonomous province and of the AP Kosovo and Metohija, which enjoys the position of essential autonomy, then the constitutional and legal position of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija and AP Vojvodina would not differ at all. And that's why the author introduced something that no one has ever made clear to us - what is the concept of essential autonomy? Since this autonomy is foreseen to be defined by the law adopted under the procedure for amending the Constitution, the procedure gives the law an attribute of the Constitutional Law. The constitutional law is in its power, ask the lawyers, equal to the Constitution. His constitutionality is not appreciated. Therefore, if by constitutional law essential autonomy is defined in a different way than the general provisions of the Constitution when it comes to, say, the jurisdiction of autonomous provinces, you can also touch in this respect the provision of the Constitution according to which the judicial authority is unique, because it is the Constitutional Law, but not the Constitutional Law that is adopted together with the Constitution, because this Constitutional Law, which is adopted by us together with the Constitution, has the role of transitional and final provisions of the Constitution and speaks of how the Constitution will be introduced into legal life. So here we are talking about a constitutional law that would define essential autonomy in a different way, that is, in a certain way, because at this point it is not defined at all. Whoever you're asking is essential autonomy, I believe they won't be able to give you a concrete answer. As for that set of questions who will be sworn to, who will be whose judge, what who will do, I am not an expert in these political agreements, and especially those agreements that are abolished by a state or a constitutional system, so maybe there's someone who's been involved in something previous, who can pass on those experiences. That agreement that was mentioned before my presentation and an agreement that solves one difficult, painfully and I would say a priority state issue of great national and national interest to the Serbian people, above all in Kosovo and Metohija, but also for the state of Serbia in general. I don't think it's correct not to see yourself criticizing another. I think that citizens should be reminded, and citizens remember very well that the Belgrade Agreement abolished the SRJ and who signed it and when someone does something like that, of course they can because everyone has the right to swear a great respect for the constitutional legal order, in a great legalist, too, should remember what he did. The 2003 Belgrade Agreement abolished the SRJ, completely contrary to its 1992 Constitution, with political will. No one asked the National Assembly, no citizens, no constitutional court, absolutely no one, and that happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27702	Replica, Mrs. Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, then Petar Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27703	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, you're a great rhetorical man and you've won prizes from vocabulary. You have managed very nicely and elegantly to avoid answering my question, calling for some general things. From you I wanted to get an answer to the question – what will it look like on KIM? You didn't give me that answer. You've replaced the thesis here and you've started speaking legally, which I completely understand. However, of all the things you said by referring to the Constitutional Law, as a citizen, I could interpret that you are actually using the Constitutional Law here as gymnastics in order for this Brussels Agreement to still be implemented. I can't help but look back at your tirad on the Belgrade Agreement and the abolishing of the SRJ and the formation of the SCG state union. You speak as if it were the will and desire of only one man, Vojislav Kostunica. You know very well what the atmosphere was like. You know very well that more partners participated in the agreement, and that the second partner was Montenegro that did not want to live anymore in the SRJ. So much for correctness, Mr. Minister. You also said everyone should remember what he was doing. We remember, but I'd like to plead that you remember what you did yourself and your colleagues in the SNS... (President: Time.) )......................................................................................................... from the threat of slaughtering with blunt spoons and beyond, and now you are great Europeans. I speak emotionally, but I had to do this.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27704	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27705	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I think I've been more than clear. No question asked – who will do this to Kim? If that question were asked, for the sake of political correctness, I could immediately ask another question or answer as I would not answer, but would I answer in that situation as I would say – the same one who prosecuted the winemakers of the Martov pogrom? And who processed them? That they were the authorities of the Serbian state? No, and it wouldn't be politically correct to ask such a question and I wouldn't really ask. I'm just saying how well to measure when something is appreciated. I am for people who do things like that to be processed. There is a legal basis for this, and I have cited what is the legal basis. As for the story of me saying that there was a man's will, I didn't say for one single time that it was the will of a man, the Belgrade Agreement, but I made it very clear that the signing of the agreement put the one who swore to the Constitution of the state, that it would defend constitutional order, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the SRJ. It is not the same when it comes to such an agreement to place the signature of the elected SRJ president and let's say the High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security, and until yesterday, NATO's Secretary-General is next to his signature. I'm just talking about what was whose obligation and how much who fulfilled his obligations. You said there was someone in that country who didn't want to live in that country. The argument would be – you know, Albanians don't want to live in the state of Serbia either. But that wasn't the point of that story. The essence of that story is that the 1992 Constitution clearly predicted how disunity could occur within the Federation. It is not respected, but a political agreement is made up. The political agreement has abolished the current constitution until then, allowing some constitutional charter to be passed, and the constitutional charter has led to Serbia-Montenegro no longer living in the common state. I just mentioned it and I think it was on the same level of correctness. If we were to talk about who wants and who doesn't want to live in Serbia, then we'd go into a deeper story. Unfortunately for us, in the last 20-25 years, a large number of Serbs no longer wanted to live here, so he had to get out of here. We'll agree it's extremely bad. I'm back on the subject we started. So, the topic is the organisation of the headquarters and areas of courts and public prosecutors and the amendment that has been submitted here. Just according to those provisions that one of your colleagues quoted, and he quoted those very provisions, and from the position of the 2nd member, the Commercial Court in Nis is still in charge of the AP KIM area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27706	Mr. Samardzic, you called, but before that, Mr. Petkovic called. You have an advantage, so identify who talks first. You'll go first? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The first Brussels deal on normalisation of relations will be discussed later, on the basis of which you have executed the elimination of Serbian courts in Kosovo. I wouldn't be wasting my time on it right now, but it's interesting that you have avoided discussing the agreement on a specific matter of MPs, calling for another agreement. That's where you messed up a lot of things. I'm surprised you're letting yourself do that as a lawyer. Namely, you called for the 2002 Belgrade Agreement, which was a political agreement, as you say, the derogation of the constitutional SRJ. That's not true. The Belgrade agreement is a political agreement signed by two SRJ and Montenegro presidents, which was appointed by the high president for the EU foreign policy as a witness. So he's not an equal signator of the agreement. Secondly, from this political agreement, which was meant to solve the crisis within the SRJ, along with the mediator – the EU, because at that time we opened negotiations and we thought that the EU could mediate a peaceful solution here, the Constitutional Charter was created. It's just a constitutional document. It was regularly adopted after discussions in two parliaments, in the Serbia-Montenegro parliament and in the SRJ parliament. Since then, the Constitutional Charter has become a constitutional document for the state community that changed its name. As you know, it was called the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, a highly correct constitutional process of change. It was actually a single structure that allowed, of course, constitutional opportunities for Serbia-Montenegro to discuss the referendum. Montenegro did so on the basis of its right to a referendum and the matter ended in a peaceful manner. So, the whole process, counting on the Belgrade Agreement, has been extremely correct and can't make any objections about it, except the trendy one, and the particular problem is that you're not talking about this main agreement that's the topic of today's debate, which is the Brussels Agreement, speaking of some agreement that's been through and which, as I said, is quite over. You guys mess with him to show that someone else made mistakes in the past, so now he doesn't even have the right to talk.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27708	I ask all MPs to return to the agenda. Now they're not on the agenda or the agreements, or the disunity, so I'm asking both the Minister and the MPs to return to the agenda. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27709	I don't know, Mr. Minister, why you're upset when I mention the Brussels Agreement or any of the DSS MPs. Is it because the agreement you signed does not have a single word of the state of Serbia, the Constitution of Serbia, and that there is the law of Kosovo, and that there is a legal system of Kosovo and that it has everything that goes in the direction of Kosovo as an independent state? It's the essence of things. Mr. Minister, I asked you a very simple question – how does the "legal system of Kosovo" sound to you as a minister of justice? Do you know why I ask you that? It is precisely because Kosovo's legal system has again banned Vulina from entering Kosovo and Metohija today. So it was allowed to be in that period when it was meant to put pressure on Serbs to go to the polls and now they've closed the border again that you've also set up. That's the key question. So it wasn't worth changing his shirt, wearing a leather jacket. The bottom line is that simply the state of Serbia cannot be present in Kosovo and Metohija, both you and how you all support the Brussels Agreement and this bill and, in the end, by forcing the people to go to false, illegal and anti-state elections. It's the essence of things. When I ask you that, you answer something quite different or quite third. If you're a man of your word, let's once answer what I ask you, no less, no more than that. Because if I only have two minutes, and you have 22 times as many, then let us be correct to answer the questions that affect the essence of this debate, especially when it comes to the DSS amendments, where you are actually shutting down Serbian state institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. So that's the essence of things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27710	The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27711	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't see myself eating, and I'm even less evil, and at least I'm hurt, especially when it comes to agreements and when it comes to something that's not the subject of today's debate and when it's not true, such as the elimination of Serbian state authorities. I think we searched that very well in the principle debate. I'm still staying with what I said back then. Since it is an established manner that even when something is not true that it continues, normally politically legitimately, repeats itself, then I will also continue to politically legitimately repeat, so if I use more time, it allows me to do so by the Rules of Procedure, which has been brought by most in the National Assembly. Not this one, someone else, but as long as we have that right, I'd be happy to use it. I can answer a simple question, and I don't answer simple questions mostly. As the legal system of Kosovo sounds to me, when it is on the agenda of the National Assembly, I will be very happy to speak of it both as a politician and as a lawyer. I only heard one untruth that burned my ears a lot, and even if it's true that I or this Serbian government has established a limit, then it's not clear to me that if this under the name of the border, and I don't see any limit, how could the Serbian police or the Serbian army in March 2004 cross that recently established border to intervene and protect their people in the rampage of Albanian terrorists at KIM? How is it that this line we established the same state authorities couldn't cross in 2008 when someone unanimously declared independence? Who set it up? The establishment of you, as you say, was done by the one who testified about that agreement that we mentioned earlier. Witness of the agreement then, NATO Secretary General. You usually take the one you trust very much as a witness. That's the one who helped pull that line. You say the border, I'd say - the administrative line. Read the law from the beginning to the end, so you will see that this law does not abolish the infringement, neither the basic, the higher court, nor the basic and more prosecutors in Kosovo Mitrovica, nor the jurisdiction of the Economic Court in Nis for the whole of the province, nor the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal in Nis, nor the jurisdiction of the Administrative Court in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27712	Just one note. I think the replica is off topic. I'm going to give Samardzic my word, and I'm asking you to finish the cycle of replicas on this issue, because we really came out of it. I know the problem is interesting, but I have to respect the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27713	Mr. Selakovic, a few explanations. Until the adoption of the Integrated Border Management Agreement, this border was not the border but the administrative line under Resolution 1244 and as such our army and police could not cross it, because we stuck to this resolution, which primarily guaranteed Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity. When this agreement was established, there has been a limit in the state sense of words ever since. Because the concept of integrated border management is a European concept of interstate border management. That's what you know, or you should know. Your government has not concluded this agreement, but your government has accepted to apply it. She might as well not have applied it. The agreement is in front of the Constitutional Court of Serbia and you know very well that you are holding back the decision-making process from various suspensions, etc. So much for boundaries. So, we had an administrative line to the Agreement, we have a limit from the Agreement because it is a European concept of border management between countries. Secondly, the witness to the Belgrade Agreement was not NATO Secretary-General, but rather the High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security Policy of the European Union. That's what you as a lawyer must also distinguish. At the time, the high representative was only a witness to a political agreement that he resolved through the constitutional mechanism of Serbia-Montenegro's relations. Today, the High Representative for Foreign Policy writes documents, agreements, plans, etc., which the Serbian government is conducting unspeakably. And that graduation is the important difference between the time Kostunica led this country and when this country is run by Vukic, Nikolic and Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27714	We're done with the replicas. We're moving on to a debate after the amendment. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27715	Mr. Minister, it is no accident that the DSS parliamentary group insists that this issue be discussed, that all segments concerning the abolition of the KIM judicial institutions are brought to a cleanup here. We didn't happen to mention the Brussels Agreement, no matter what he doesn't mention in the law. It is mentioned in a very important document – the Justice Reform Strategy. The Brussels Agreement is most directly mentioned in the Justice Reform Strategy, where it is said – the alignment of the network of courts with the Brussels Agreement. The most direct consequence of the reform strategy of the judiciary is the Law on the Network of Courts, where simply in the Brussels Agreement a provision is defined that the judicial institutions of the Republic of Serbia will be completely abolished and transferred to the jurisdiction, as we say, of the temporary institutions of self-government on KIM is, in fact, what is happening today. However, one important question is that I also want to ask. In the law, you said that by December 31st this year a special law will be passed, although we don't know what a special law is. Was it a debate whether it was more of a law or a constitutional law? There are 42 days left. The law changes and refers to the regulation of the government. Will we have a referendum by the end of this year asking Serbian citizens whether the courts in Kosovo and Metohija are being abolished? Because in order to lift the courts in Kosovo and Metohija, you have to call a referendum and ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What happens if that law is not passed? Let me remind you, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, by adopting a resolution defining a platform for negotiations, said - all the powers resulting from negotiations between Belgrade and Pristina will be entrusted to temporary institutions in Pristina by special constitutional law and will be transferred to jurisdiction. I ask the question – will this law regarding courts be passed by the end of the year? Mr. Minister, we're asking the question of essential autonomy. You've basically defined autonomy with this. For you, the essential autonomy is the Brussels Agreement and the laws and regulations adopted in the previous government and which you have now adopted. You don't have room for further conversation. Essential autonomy for you is the Brussels Agreement. You are only allowed to pass a law in the National Assembly that will break the unity of the judicial system and trust the institutions that declared Kosovo and Metohija independence, the judicial system and the justice that they exercise over Serbs. That's the essential thing. Once again, we mention the Brussels Agreement because it is mentioned in the Justice Reform Strategy, where you have committed to bring Serbia's judicial network into line with the Brussels Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27716	Mr. Petkovic on what grounds?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27717	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 27. So, he's talking about the amendment himself, then Minister Selakovic answered me. Then I had the right to a replica. Afterwards, Minister Selakovic again responded to me by not allowing me to give my answer to that other answer. And now you're breaking my lines. You know, this is not about those other replicas where the debate comes first and foremost from the context of the topic discussed by the Assembly is already the essence of our amendments, which is to abolish Serbian state institutions in Kosovo and Metohija with the Brussels Agreement, this bill, etc. Please let me answer because I have the right to reply. You're violating my parliamentary right. Your silence means I'm right?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27718	I don't think I broke the Rules of Procedure. You know very well that on the basis of Article 104, the chairman decides on the right to replication. A circle of replicas developed, and I warned in advance. I don't dispute the justification of your questions, but you have to admit that we're still out of the picture. So that's why I didn't allow your replica, and you can if you think there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure to plead our injury in the voting day? Do you want to? Yeah, all right, we'll get to the point. The word has been made by MP Milos Aligrudic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27719	Very short, just two sentences. So let's go back to the right side of this thing. There is no constitutional basis for the solution proposed here, for these institutions to be expelled. You say you don't throw courts out of KIM territory. True, they have been expelled from one part of the regulations and placed in transitional provisions. What do you do with transitional provisions? With transitional provisions, you announce the transfer of these institutions to a special law outside the continent, and to Article 183. The Constitution does not provide for such a possibility for autonomous provinces. So the judiciary is unique. You're announcing the law of eviction from the single judiciary of one of his sectors. Why am I saying you don't have the basis for that? Because there must be a constitutional law on essential autonomy that would give you the basis to write something like this even in transitional provisions. So, we are not arguing with you whether there will be a court tomorrow morning in Kosovo Mitrovica or not, we are not talking about it, but we are talking about the solution you made in the bill of law, which disqualifies the single judiciary of the Republic of Serbia by announcing in the law its separation. You have no right to do that, and you have the right to pass a law on essential autonomy, but obviously you will not or cannot, nor know how to bring it. Therefore, my colleagues tell you very well that for you the basis for adopting this regulation is the Brussels Agreement, because obviously the Constitution, or some future uncertain law on essential autonomy, is not at all. That's why you don't have the basis for this. Now we can discuss this summer day by noon, as you say, and you claim one thing, the other, but this is the only true logic, these are the basic facts, and everything else is the wrong display of things.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27720	Anyone else want a word? The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Miletic Mihajlovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Srdjan Mikovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27721	In addition to the proposal for a law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors, an analysis of the effects of the regulations has not been carried out. In any case, an analysis of the effects of the regulations is not sufficient because, if the amendments to the Committee had not been submitted, all cases that went to the appeal in Belgrade from Sapac, or in an appeal to Novi Sad from Panchev, would have been practically waiting for their turn to be resolved. The bill envisioned that since January 1st, what has not been resolved goes to a competent appeal. It means that a truck of items from Novi Sad, panic items, is being packed and that they're going to Belgrade, and that the Sabbath items from Belgrade are going to Novi Sad. I speak vividly, but that would happen. So anything that wouldn't have been decided by January 1st. Only later on, the video board, we don't want to play with it, give what went into appeal to get rid of it, because the people of Capca and Pancheva would get to the end of the order for a new appeal that's competent. In that sense, I have proposed an amendment not to touch something that we are not aware of right now what kind of negative effects we can have and I don't see why, if something relatively good works to change it. There are few of those objects where people travel to places of appeal. There are public sessions bigger, or some certain things, but it's still a smaller part of the case, it's mostly about the papers, but it's obvious that for example. We don't see it. However, when you did not accept the amendment for the Kovin court unit to go with Pancheva, and we have a situation that there will be no crossing of prosecutors from the primary prosecutor's office in Pancheva to Kovin, as Article 15 is said to be – from the abolished public prosecutors there is a transfer of people. Then what to expect about this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27722	Time. Anyone else want a word? The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Biljana Hasanovic Korac and Teodora Vlahovic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27723	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the agenda today provides for the Supreme Court of Panchev to fall under the authority of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade. With the amendment, we suggest that this change be made, and that the Supreme Court of Pancheva remain under the authority of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad, as it has so far. The reason behind this amendment is a very similar explanation that we gave yesterday with the amendment for the Kovina judicial unit, co-worker Teodora Vlahović and myself and regarding constitutional rights and with regard to national minorities and their rights because in the territory of the Pancheva municipality as well as in the entire territory of Vojvodina live both Hungarians and Romanians and members of other national minorities. The appeals in Novi Sad are also trained to conduct procedures in the languages of members of the national communities that they have the right to do so, so that they can better exercise their rights before the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad. As for yesterday's explanation that you gave for our explanation of the amendments and the reasons for accepting the amendments that we have made, I can only say that you have not given me an answer at all to the questions that I have asked, about why the amendment is being rejected, about the contradictory facts and the incorrect facts of that argument, you have already attached to what I have cited as an example of achieving health care, which in this case does not matter. I merely cited it as an example that most of the Vojvodina are accomplishing and right in Novi Sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27724	Any other words? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the committee in charge did not accept this amendment. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Judita Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27725	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, during today's debate, one fact has been raised, the need for constitutional reform. Indeed, this Constitution should be changed for many reasons, and specifically for the reasons that we have heard today when amendments have been discussed regarding individual solutions in this bill and made arguments as to why these amendments are not adopted. In fact, you can't get your life into this existing rigid framework of the Constitution, because it's simply not a real constitution anymore, and the question is, was it ever real? In that case, you are forced and I fully understand you, Mr. Minister, that you selectively apply certain constitutional provisions, and that selective approach actually produces one legal uncertainty and then you question the rule of law. It's something very dangerous for one legal system. You can only solve this if you really approach these constitutional reforms. When you talk about the fact that there's absolutely no problem for you to make a replacement between the two cities, the Whispers and the Panchevs. Will the Sabac profit by belonging to the jurisdiction of the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad or to the Department of the Criminal Court of Appeal and the Department of the Administrative Court in Novi Sad? Will the same case be with Panchev, since it is being transferred to the jurisdiction of the appeals court in Belgrade? You made one argument. Since it's only one argument, we assume it's actually the most important argument. The argument consists of you calling for a geographical distance. That's one principle when we talk about a network of courts. However, you did not exactly adhere to that principle when you established certain solutions in this bill. For example, where is this principle when we talk about the municipalities of the New Prince and Choko, what are the jurisdictions of the Main Court in Kikinda and not in the jurisdiction of the General Court in Senta? These two municipalities are two, three, four times as far away from Kickinda as Sente. So there is no geographical distance that would be more favourable for those citizens living in the territory of the New Prince or Choke, and they should travel to Kikinda. I understand that you followed the same principle as Slobodan Milosevic, when he established those administrative districts, unfortunately these districts are still existing and somehow do not see the political will to change something about these administrative districts although I do not see the purpose of the existence of these districts except that they represent an additional burden for the budget of this country, which is already too tense and overloaded. So, essentially, Mr. Minister, these constitutional reforms are needed and it is necessary to change Serbia's relationship with the AP Vojvodina, it is necessary to allow these potentials to be demonstrated, and one way in fact is to return to that Vojvodina what was taken away from it by the Constitution in 1990, which is the judicial executive and legislative authority. If Vojvodina had that judicial authority, you wouldn't be able to regulate this network of courts in this way and not because it would actually be a bad solution for Serbia, but it would be a good solution for Vojvodina, and if it's good for Vojvodina, it's normal to be good for the whole state of Serbia. These are the failures that are so clearly seen when a debate on a law is launched that somehow tries to avoid fully respecting the Constitution in which this authority is so often sworn and if there is a solution, and there is, it would be good to really solve the problem. By solving the problems that have arisen with the change of the Constitution, by adopting a new constitution, with one completely new approach to the regulation of this country, I think you will solve many acute issues and you will remove many controversys and unless you have enough political will, political strength and political courage, and in that case you will have such discussions and future ones as this one is today.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27726	The 6th amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Konstantinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic submitted to the 6th amendment. The word is made by MP Petar Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27727	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, and this amendment of ours, we demand that you do not abolish the KIM courts, that you do not shut down the state of Serbia in Kosovo. So, you're in violation, Mr. Minister of the Constitution, when you refer to a special law where you say that the question of the network of courts will be resolved by a special law. The Constitution does not recognise a special law on the network of courts. There's only a special law on essential autonomy. The whole time you've been discussing this, you've been chasing the concepts. You speak between the administrative line and the border, between the special law and the constitutional law, etc. So, the point is that it is the Constitutional Court of Serbia that should say whether under the Constitution of Serbia there is a legal system for Kosovo? Because if in the Statute of the Vojvodina you had a decree saying that Vojvodina is asking about certain judicial matters and if you have the Law on determining jurisdiction where the Constitutional Court is, so 22 provisions have been annulled, among other things, by that provision concerning Vojvodina having the right to ask questions in judicial matters, don't you think that the Serbian Constitutional Court will annul any decision, any law which recognises the legal framework of KIM, or Kosovo as an independent state? So the point is – you say that the courts will continue to work until this special law is passed. What is this special law? A law where you recognise the Kosovo Ministry of Justice, where you recognise Kosovo's constitution, where you recognise courts that will exclusively work under such a single constitution and under those laws. So, the bottom line is that you, with this bill, as I said at the outset, are introducing the Brussels Agreement into Serbia's legal system without publishing the same agreement in the "Official Messenger". Also, does the Brussels Agreement mention the state of Serbia, the Constitution of Serbia, in any word? That's what I'm asking you for the hundredth time. So, please answer one very simple question. So, the point is that the DSS wants these amendments to retain the existing situation when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, that we do not in fact lift what we have and accept what we do not have, or accept what is simply not under the Constitution of Serbia, and it is about institutions, the legal system of Albanian separatists.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27728	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Konstantin Arsenovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic submitted to the 7th amendment. The word is Sanda Raskovic Ivić.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27729	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we, the DSS, have asked in this amendment that the Department of Administrative Court in Nis should continue to exercise legal jurisdiction in the territory of the AP Kosovo and Metohija. We don't think this should change. Here, the authorities are full of the mouth of the mantra that they will never recognise Kosovo, so I don't know why all this changes if Kosovo's recognition doesn't come. However, more and more of this discussion today gives good grounds for this, it is clear that this law has become a function of implementing the Brussels Agreement, i.e. it is in the function of establishing a judicial system, i.e. "Republics of Kosovo". I must say, I'm very surprised, especially surprised to you, Mr. Minister, who was one of the young feathers, the most beautiful national Serbia, why you're allowing this and why you're taking part in all of this. I don't know what he thinks the current government is doing, but we can expect, of course, by looking at what it's done so far, that in a few years, if Jelko Kacin and the European Union so requests, some of the courts from Subotica will be moved and moved to Segedin, Hungary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27730	The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment, in the same text, was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic, joint MPs Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahovic and joint MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić. The word is by MP Biljana Hasanovic Korac.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27731	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the essence of this amendment is that the Panchev Criminal Court falls under the authority of the New Sad Criminal Court of Appeals. Basically, in the list, the Panchev Criminal Court is not mentioned anywhere, but in an explanation, which we received with the government's refusal of amendments, it is said that the Panchev Criminal Court falls under the Criminal Court of Appeal in Belgrade and, of course, again calls for a geographical distance criterion. We believe that calling on this criterion of formal character and it cannot essentially be justified for the reason that, who knows the judicial system and its functioning, knows that parties rarely appear before the Court of Appeal, it is mainly done in the higher court, and that distance has no relevance to solving cases for the party, i.e. does not affect the costs of the party during the proceedings, nor does it affect the speed of solving the case. So we believe that the argument given for refusal is not justified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27732	The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Nenad Constantinovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Sanda Raskovic-Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic submitted to the 8th amendment. The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27733	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I'm glad you're no longer responding to our arguments. It seems you've become clear that what you're doing is deeply against the constitution. The only thing I can ask you to do is to withdraw this bill from the procedure, because it must comply with the Constitution, it must predict the existence of and courts and prosecutors in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, because what you are doing now cannot be called otherwise, but the abolition of courts and prosecutors in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Do not engage in and serve some other stages, and one of these is that they continue to work until a special law is passed. Nobody cares about that. So, you hereby abolish both courts and prosecutors in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, separate them from the unique judicial system of the Republic of Serbia and thus directly violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister, I hope you can hear me. We have submitted amendments to every member of this bill. And I do believe, respecting the need of other MPs, that it is important to talk about both judicial units and courts throughout Serbia, but this law also has one systemic error in itself. You amputate part of Serbia's territory with one law. And you only do it for one reason. One agreement, which you didn't even have the courage to publish anywhere, or to publish in "The Official Messenger", you subjugate the entire legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I talked about it yesterday and last night and we'll talk about it, not just at today's session, but always about what you're doing. We'll remind you, and when this point is over, what you're doing. You are under obligation, Mr. Minister, to respect Article 142. A constitution that speaks of the judicial system in the territory of the Republic of Serbia as unique and that you have no right to single out any part of Serbia, which you are doing right now. Yesterday I was talking about that exactly what you were asked to start the moment you disbanded local self-governments in northern Kosovo and Metohija, and then you replaced legitimately and democratically elected representatives, more specifically the mayors of northern Kosovo and Metohija, now you're terminating the courts, tomorrow you're going to abolish both hospitals and schools and institutions of culture and everything they ask of you. You even had the courage to write in the Justice Reform Strategy that the alignment of the network of courts is done with the Brussels Agreement. So you even had the courage to leave it behind. Mr. Minister, you're leaving a lot of clues behind. When I said in the principle debate that history would never forget you, believe me, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27734	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27735	Just one brief answer, it'll be shorter than two minutes. Since there is talk all the time about something that is not the subject of today's debate, which is the abolition of state institutions. I remember someone in the early 2000s lifted the District Executive Council. I think it was the first institution of the Serbian state to be abolished. Unfortunately, MP Zoran Angelkovic, who was president of the Executive Council, is not there to tell us something about it, but I remember who was in power at the time. I'm sure history will remember him.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27736	The word has been made by MP Milica Radovic, after the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27737	I'll use it if I don't have a basis, and I think I do, time of authorized representative. Mr. Minister, talk about what's on the agenda, talk about what we're asking you and answer the questions we're asking you. Don't use these things to convince us of something that's impossible. You cannot convince us that this law does not remove courts and prosecutors in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, meaning, in a work called the AP Kosovo and Metohija, and that you do not continue the process today. Don't. Let go of the past. We don't deal with the past. Now let's go back and answer specifically what the MPs are asking you today, and they started yesterday at some deaf hour of the night. Answer at least once – how do you think the institutions of the Republic of Serbia on the territory of Kosovo and Metohija do not end? If you really don't think you're doing it, then go find me in this bill of law, which we're discussing today, which is in front of me, where these courts in Kosovo Mitrovica, where that basic court is, where that infraction court is, where that higher court is, where it is. Come on, tell me, explain thesis to me. We're here. We don't have to be lawyers for this debate at all, I don't even think she's that crucial in this case. Your intention is important, your intention to abolish the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. Don't use that kind of argument. Answer clearly what we ask you – where are the courts in this bill, which should be located in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27738	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27739	It is enough to read Article 12 and see that it is foreseen that there is an organisation of courts and prosecutors in the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. If there was no member, what you were saying would be justified, and since this is an argument, since this is the argument that stands in this bill, I believe you can read it and see it. From what I've seen, the likes of the amendments that have been provided for that member to be deleted are similar.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27740	The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27741	To make it clear to the public, we know what you're talking about here, and what you're talking about has nothing to do with the truth. "The establishment of courts and public prosecutors responsible for the territory of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, their seats and areas of jurisdiction, is governed by a special law. “ What special law are we talking about here, Mr. Minister? What special law? Did you pass this special law? I guess it's logical that you first pass this special law to arrange for it what we regulate by this law. It doesn't make sense what you're talking about, Mr. Secretary. You know yourself that you are not telling the truth and you know that you are carrying out orders that exclusively concern that the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija no longer exist. Look, Mr. Minister, Article 183. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. See what an autonomous province can do in accordance with the law. Does this member of the Constitution say anywhere that it is possible to regulate judicial authority in the territory of the Republic of Serbia? Mr. Minister, it doesn't say anything. Please explain to me how you don't think you're terminating the courts and the prosecution in KIM territory if it's not in this bill? There's no basic, no misdemeanor, no higher, no administrative, no business, no other court that's actually existed on KIM territory so far. I pray you once and for all, you speak the truth, you speak clearly that the people understand you, and we, unfortunately, and your intentions, understand you very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27742	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27743	When someone wants to understand, they want to understand. Since it is obvious that you are seeking a review of what was in the debate in principle, it will not be difficult for me to read the members of the law which and how they speak of what you have said. So, nice to take, so read article 17. Proposal for a law which states: "Until the adoption of a special law under Article 12 of this Act, the courts and the public prosecutor's office referred to in Article 2 paragraph 13. Infringement court in Kosovo Mitrovica, Article 3rd point 11. The main court in Kosovo Mitrovica, Article 4th point 7. Senior court in Kosovo Mitrovica, Article 9th point 11th and Article 10th point 7. Basic and More Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica, Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 116/08, continue to work." I can read it again. You want another one? Great. Until the adoption of the special law referred to in Article 12 of this Act, the courts and the public prosecutors referred to in Article 2 paragraph 13. Infringement court in Kosovo Mitrovica, Article 3rd point 11. The main court in Kosovo Mitrovica, Article 4th point 7. Senior court in Kosovo Mitrovica, Article 9th point 11. General and Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica and Article 10th point 7. More Public Prosecutor's Office in Kosovo Mitrovica, Law on Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", number 116/08, continue to work." You can ask countless more questions about which we specifically speak the law. We're not talking about special law here. We're here talking about the draft law on areas and seats of courts and public prosecutors. We can look differently at solving this issue, or this problem, the government came up with this proposal. If you're not up for this proposal, don't vote for it. You can handle, as you've submitted, the amendments you're going to try to amend or supplement, and that's quite legitimate and fine. As far as I know, this bill has passed the assembly committees. Representatives of a political party have issued their opinion, opposed it, quite fine and quite legitimately. And to create such a political climate and call someone to abolish, I have read only the first position, in the second attitude is also the preservation of the jurisdiction of the Nish-based Violation Court Department, the Nish-based Business Court, the Nis-based Department of Administrative Court. Identical provisions. If you are calling me and telling me to abolish the organ, I can tell you how many authorities for various governments, but indeed completely and effectively abolished in the area of AP Kosovo and Metohija. What are we going to get? Let's not talk about history. Let's talk about the future. What, so we don't look back, it all starts with us? I'd be so happy to ask you together to go, say, to Glogovac and talk about Article 183. The Constitution, I just don't know who or what language, who's gonna understand us and who's gonna back us up in it. It is absolutely incorrect for someone who, after a series of years of withdrawals of the devastating state moves, is trying to save a third of the Serb people down there from 1998 and 1999, trying to save what still exists from the state of Serbia, to honor something like this. Then we'll get back to that principle debate, talk about 2008, talk about 2004. What are we going to achieve? As long as we're here to take the blame from each other, until the Pristina Assembly brings regulations that will effectively implement most of the territory that we cannot go to today and guarantee our safety. For who? Because of me, because of you? Or are we going to live in fiction? Don't let the citizens get beat up by things that won't make them or us any better. What, am I too happy, am I singing, am I looking forward to being in a situation like a state to discuss things like this, to tell each other these things? No, I didn't. I'm sorry, I'm sorry about that. It's hard for me to be a Serb because of it. It's hard for me that someone's been destroying everything that's Serbian for decades, what Serbs have been doing to him and howling about it. Now I have to go and lie in a cold grave because, well, I don't like it. All that's left of Serbia is to fail because we don't like it. I think we as a state and as a government have a principled attitude. Yeah, we want to talk about history too, because whenever we said -- let's not talk about the past, then we repeated all those mistakes from the past in the future. No, I want us to learn about all the bad things we've done as a state in the last five, 10, 15 or 50 years. If you had come a little early to listen to another debate, you would have seen what this government and I as its member have to do with those issues where we can still solve something in a good way. This may be unilaterally political principled, and I appreciate that. Every political party or group has its principles, advocates them, goes to the polls, gets a number of votes, gets the people's trust, and that's good, that's democratic, and that's how it should go. Don't let me listen to the curses of Jevrosima's mother and the stories of who, which is why and how she remembers. So, to whom it is unclear, he takes a nice, read Article 17. The draft law on seats and areas of courts and public prosecutors and therefore sees what is possible in legislative practice. You're taking over one good part of a law that mostly wasn't good, that good part continues to exist. What's so controversial about that? Administratively after taking over these members, points and positions, the judicial authorities at KIM continue their work. Is someone shutting them down? Someone's trying to convince the public or someone here to shut them down. No, I don't.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27744	The word comes from MP Milica Radovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27745	What did you say to me now, Mr. Minister, other than confirming that you abolished the courts in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija? It took you 10 minutes to convince me, not me, but probably the public that what I'm saying is true. But there's not a shred of truth in that, Mr. Minister. Why? Here, I'll use the same article you called on, you're talking about article 17. The member is said to continue to work by the end of the year by 31 December 2013. How do you think they keep working? Under what name? Even if they keep working, they keep going until the end of the year. In January 2014, there will be no single court in Kosovo and Metohija. If you think it's important today to convince the public in this way you're talking, I don't think this attempt will work. Last time you told me in a principle debate, I was only talking about what I wanted to hear and where I could reason with what I like. Now you have tried the same method to tell me that the courts continue to work, but you have not read the second part, to continue working until 31 December 2013 in translation on 1 January 2014, all courts and all prosecutors in Kosovo and Metohija will be abolished, Mr. Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27746	The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27747	When I hear something like this, I'm happy that someone who talks like that won't apply this law, because then I'm sure what was said would be his intention, and since it's not in the law, because there's no law that says, if a special law isn't passed then someone stops doing it, then I'm happy that those who interpret the law will be able to interpret it in the right way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27748	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27749	Your Honor, I'd like to believe and I'll take it from you, because things are like that, as you say, and not as it says in the law. With that in mind, there's only one thing I'm going to ask you. I read in the paper and listen to the media that Krstimir Pantic complains that he was stolen in the elections, and that we do not doubt which court Krstimir Pantic will appeal to the election commission's decision and that he was robbed in the elections, and which court is in charge of his appeal and the procedure that he will lead to preserve the election will of the citizens of Kosovo Mitrovica? Just answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27750	The word has Minister Selakovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27751	The court, which is directly competent to control the judicial process. But while you're talking about something that's not the subject of this debate, let me really include something in this subject in one sentence. In 2000, federal presidential elections were held. No votes from Kosovo and Metohija were counted during the vote count. At the time of the elections, voters of Serbian citizenship in Kosovo and Metohija and for someone they did not exist. There is even a decision today made by two opposition parties, and then two partner parties, when they disrupted their relations, so one asked the Supreme Court to examine the issue. Again, I feel bad that Mr. Angelkovic is not here to say something about the fact that, just then in October 2000, the votes of our citizens from Kosovo and Metohija were not counted. As far as determining the court's jurisdiction is concerned, it is clear that there is more and more of the main public prosecutor's office in Kosovo Mitrovica, there is a Higher and Basic Court in Kosovo Mitrovica. There's an appeal court in Nis which is a second-degree court for this area, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27752	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27753	So, Mr. Minister, are you telling us that Krstimir Pantic will appeal to the Serbian court in Kosovo Mitrovica, the authorities of Serbia in Kosovo Mitrovica, and that decision will be applied by the Central Election Commission of Kosovo or will he be forced to appeal to the Cypriot court in the southern part of Kosovo Mitrovica and that this court or any court in Pristina will be competent? It is just a concrete question that the court is in charge and whose decision will be applied if Krstimir Pantic decides to complain that he was robbed in the elections held now for the weekend? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27754	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27755	Unfortunately for us, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I must say something that is obviously unknown to those who want to talk about the functioning of the judiciary, in general, in the area of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, to our great regrets, an incomparably greater number of citizens, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbian nationalities living in Kosovo and Metohija are addressing the judicial system that has established the provisional institutions of self-government. Thousands and thousands of requests to provide some kind of legal assistance in these proceedings are given. Therefore, they do not address the primary and higher courts in Kosovo Mitrovica, but rather some other courts. A few thousand demands. I'll get that information, and I'll share it with you. That's not what you and I do, that's what our citizens, Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija do. There are also those who live in Ranilug, Gracani, Strpc, Gorazdevac, there are also those who live in Leposavic, Zubin Potok, Kosovo Mitrovica or Zvečana. It's just that some people admit it publicly and say, if they say that they've taken some documents for the sake of the exercise of some rights, and some people aren't talking about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27756	The word has a folk MP, Slobodan Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27757	Just one question, Mr. Minister, is there a primary and senior court in Kosovo Mitrovica?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27758	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Dejan Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27759	Mr. Minister, and that there are Serbian citizens addressing the courts of the interim administration in Kosovo and Metohija, you are now eliminating the possibility of addressing the authorities of Serbia. They will no longer be able to protect their rights before the judicial authorities of Serbia, the Basic and Higher Court in Kosovo Mitrovica, but you leave them to protect their rights under the laws of the self-called, self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo and to force them to accept Sharia and who knows what other rights contrary to the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, which will no longer apply in Kosovo. So I ask you, just confirm to me if you can or if you will, if you will not explicitly from what you have said you can see unequivocally that Krstimir Pantic will have to appeal to the court of temporary authorities in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27760	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27761	Whomever complains, you have to ask who has the right to complain. That's the first thing. Second, is there a Court of Justice and a Supreme Court? What do you defend if it doesn't exist? What do you defend if it doesn't exist? What are we talking about if something doesn't exist? Citizens turn to one who can make an executive decision for both yours and my great regrets. A decision concerning trespassing in Mushotište, I do not believe it will be executed if it is brought by our primary court in Kosovo Mitrovica. Convince me it's the opposite. Show me. I'd like to see, I'd really be delighted to attend such an execution. When you find that case, let's go together and see how that goes. Let's go together. It's as hard for me as it is for you to talk about it, but you and I both know how it is and how it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27762	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 8 of the amendment in the same text, MPs Srdjan Mikovic, MPs Biljana Hasanovic Koraić and Teodora Vlahović, and joint MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik and Dragan Andrić submitted. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27763	I expect that the associates will pass on all this information to Mr. Secretary, because I still don't think an analysis has been done. I didn't want to be wonderful about the previous article, about article 7. In Article 7, for example. The peers to the Infringement Court via Pančev travel to Novi Sad, while the Pančevs go to the Criminal Court of Appeal to Belgrade. Where's the logic? Also, Vrscani will go via Panchev to Belgrade to the Administrative Court. It won't go to Novi Sad. However, I am now asking you if we are playing with Sapac and Pančev in terms of misdemeanor courts and administrative trial, I have heard that Mr Tomic, who is from Sapac, also prefers to be tried in Belgrade, according to tradition. However, I am asking a second question for cases which have not been resolved by 1 January at a misappellate court, these cases will be packed, as will the administrative court, and sent to those departments where they should be resolved. How old will the misdemeanor be? Tell me, and will there be a break in that two-year deadline? It's not good. On the side of everything, it can be political whether it's Novi Sad or Belgrade or Sabac or Panchevo. Let's see what works, and this for Kovin still hasn't been answered. When the crime is in Kovin, police officer Panchevo and prosecutor from Smederev will leave, not the one from Kovin, as metal prosecutors remain in the prosecutor's office in Pancheva, but the one who doesn't know the terrain. That's what's gonna happen. And now all day long yesterday and today I'm trying to convince you for nothing. They're free to speak with deafness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27764	The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Miodrag Djidic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Kasalovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) Together, MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Zlata Djeric. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nebojsa Zelenovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Nikola Jovanovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment, with correction, was jointly submitted by MPs Dragan Markovic, Petar Petrovic, Nevena Stojanovic, Vojislav Vujic, Zoran Vasic and Mr Djordje Kosanic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Miroljub Stojcic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the 9th amendment, in the same text, together were the MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milosevic and Prim. Dr Ninoslav Girić and together the MPs of the people Snezana Stojanović Plavsic, Zivojin Stankovic and Prof. Dr. Miodrag Stojković. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Bojana Bozanic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Arpad Fremond. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Gorica Gajic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by the People's Parliament of the Soul of Morchev. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The People's MP, Milica Dronjak, submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment, in the same text, was jointly submitted by Parliamentarian Konstantin Arsenović and the MPs together doc. Dr Zoran Radovanovic and Dejan Radenkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Ana Novkovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milica Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27765	Mr. President, I asked this amendment to Majdanpek, given that according to this proposal, the court also received the prosecution, and I felt that the network of prosecutors should monitor the network of courts and that one prosecution should be established for the area of a court rather than for the area of multiple courts. Of course, there are a bunch of reasons why we've been looking for a solution like this. It certainly makes it easier to access justice, economics, a new concept of prosecution investigation based on the Code of Criminal Procedure. These are sufficient reasons to support the need for this principle to exist. Majdanpek is located in a border area near Romania. We know that there is a considerable increase in the intensity of criminal activity in this area, especially when we have in mind cigarette smuggling that takes place at the most at the border with Romania, when we know that drug trafficking, drugs and even humans have been recorded in the area. On the other hand, there are 98 border crossings on Serbia's state border, controlled by border police administrations with 40 police stations. Of these 40 police stations, 13 are located at the border with Romania, with six road crossings. I think it's a good idea that against cross-border crime and quite justifiable that Majdanpek should be given this bill to court, so that he can get the prosecution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27766	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MP Bajro Gegic and Enis Imamovic. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Pejcic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, I must say that I am not an MP of the Zlatibor County and am not an MP from the Senate, but at the request of many citizens, members and sympathisers, I have had to respond to the amendment regarding this law. The essence of this law is that we require the establishment of a public prosecutor's office in the Chamber for the Court of Justice in Sjenica, because we think it is cellical that the public prosecutor's office is set up for the territory of a fundamental court and not more, as it is now. The Municipality of Sjenica is a municipality that has 35,000 citizens, over 100 settlements and is one of the most populated places in Europe. Given that this is a border area and that arms trafficking, narcotics and people have been carried out in this area, we believe that the establishment of a public prosecutor's office for the main court in Sjenica and how important it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27768	Thank you. The 9th amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Donka Banovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Dejan Mihajlov. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Michael.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27769	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, our proposal to establish the basic prosecutor's office and that it exists in Priboj is primarily about the prosecution being bound to the territory of the basic court, since we have a basic court in Priboj and we should also have a basic prosecutor's office. It has been a practice in Serbia's legal system so far, until it has been violated by previous reform or the destruction of Serbia's judicial system. We think that would be very good. That's one reason the prosecution covers the territory of the basic court. Another reason is that we are talking about Priboj, a place that is extremely important because of the border with Republika Srpska. Given the particularly large number of asylum seekers and traffickers, narcotics, tobacco smuggling, the need to respond effectively and quickly in certain situations, we believe that it is necessary to establish a basic prosecutor's office that would be related to the work of the Basic Court in Priboj to better co-operation of Serbian and Serbian judicial authorities and to combat all kinds of crime effectively and rapidly. We believe that there are more than justifiable reasons for the establishment of such a prosecutor's office that would help stabilise and fight better, that is to say, a more effective fight against various types of smuggling, smugglers, asylum seekers, white slavery and everything else that exists in border areas, which is one of the channels where this type of crime or this type of crime is more effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27770	Member of the 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Zoltan Peck. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic and together by the MPs Susan Spasojevic and Zvonimir Stevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Dejan Nikolic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Milisav Petronijevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) On Article 9 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Palaly.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27771	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, our concept when it comes to the public prosecutor's office, we'll bring it up when they're on the agenda to amend the Law on Public Prosecutor's Offices. In any case, it differs from those solutions that are defined there and we believe that the place that has the basic court should also have a basic public prosecutor's office. Of course, the Law governing courts and part of jurisdiction has now been amended, and in that sense we have intervened and amended when it comes to the Law on Public Prosecutors. In any case, this amendment suggests forming a basic public prosecutor's office for the territory of the municipality of Shid, to cover the territory of the basic court in Shid. Shid is an important and important municipality in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, belonging to that part called Srem and, most importantly, the border is a municipality. It is borderline towards both the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. There is a lot of traffic, especially through the Batrovci crossings, and it takes place on the territory of the municipality of Šid. We know that during the previous period there were both war facts and all that crime that can be imagined in one border area towards the country which has now been admitted and in the EU requires that the municipality of Šid be formed in addition to the basic court and the public prosecutor's office. Regardless of what you have stated here, the reasons for the refusal of amendments, that the inflow of the case does not allow it, we will talk about this whole concept when these three laws are on the agenda, but we consider it because of the importance of the municipality of Shid, due to its border importance, because of its industrial significance, because of the border, especially with the Republic of Croatia, that it deserves and should be in its area in addition to the basic court, which is a good thing that the basic court in the municipality of Shid is returned to the general public prosecutor's office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27772	National MP Mirna Kosanovic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Mirna Kosanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27773	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, members of the ministry, fellow MPs, we have submitted an amendment to Article 9 for reasons of point 52. The main public prosecutor's office in Stara Pazova is foreseen without a department in India, i.e. without a court in Indjia, so point 56 should be amended to say that the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Užica for the Area of the Basic Court in Užica and the Basic Court in Baja Basta, with a department in Baja Basta. This amendment proposed establishing departments for the general public prosecutors in India and Baja Basta for the reasons of the amendment to Article 3. The bill proposed the establishment of basic courts in these places, as well as the establishment of a department of basic public prosecutors. In India and in Baja Basta, large quantities of KI cases, i.e. investigation cases and criminal cases are needed, since this Code of Criminal Procedure provides for a prosecution investigation, which is a newspaper, which means that the prosecutor will have to act on an annual basis in several hundred cases. For this reason, it is necessary for the prosecution to exist, except for a proposal for the existence of courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27774	Members of the 9th Amendment, in the same text, were submitted by MPs Aleksandar Senic and Mladen Grujic. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Dragojevic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MP Miroslav Petkovic submitted to Article 9 of the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27775	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. The bill is good in this sense that Ivanjica is finally returning to Moravia County, where he is geographically, i.e. that the citizens of Ivanjica, as senior court, will have a court in Cačka, unlike Užica, as was the case so far. In line with the DSS concept, concerning the Law on Public Prosecutors, I suggested that Ivanica have a basic public prosecutor's office in addition to the basic court. I know that you will say that the law provides for the prosecution to be established for one or more basic courts, but if we have already referred Guchu to Ivanjic, and then Ivanjic should be referred to Cačak, give it when we have already established a court in Ivanjica, when the basic court will function, some citizens of Ivanjica and the whole region have a basic public prosecutor's office. I think in a series of these amendments submitted by the DSS, there's plenty of room to accept all of this, in order to establish courts and prosecutors in all these places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27776	The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milanka Karic and Dragomir J. Karic. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 9th Amendment were submitted by MP Milan Lapčević. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Milica Vojic Markovic. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic submitted to the 9th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 10th Amendment were submitted by MP Riza Halimi. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivić, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic submitted to the 10th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Slobodan Samardzic, Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudić, Sanda Raskovic Ivic, Petar Petkovic and Sinisa Kovacevic submitted to the 12th amendment. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Slobodan Samaradzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27777	Dear Mr. Minister, the signatories of this amendment demand that this member be deleted. It is this member who determines that the establishment of courts of public prosecutors, as well as their seats and areas in KIM, will be governed by a special law. It should be deleted for the simple reason that this is an anti-constitutional member and based on one anti-constitutional document, which is the first agreement to normalise Belgrade and Pristina's relations. About that, we've had a lot of discussion and I wouldn't repeat our previous debate. We have heard a lot of arguments from you, and some of them concern not only this special law that will determine the seats and areas, but also the time until there will be existing courts in Kosovo and Metohija covering the area of Kosovo and Metohija, better said. With this occasion, I'd like to establish something for you, and I'd like to ask you a specific question. The Supreme Council of the Judiciary decided, once with its decision of June, that the Criminal Court, the Court of First Instance, and the Supreme Court of Mitrovica on 1 September, will complete all the proceedings it has, and those proceedings that will come to it by July 15th or 16th, it is not important now to hand them over to EULEX, under Article 2, who will re-send these cases to the judicial authorities of Kosovo, and then what is very important for that point 3, which will work under the first agreement on normalisation of Belgrade and Pristina's relations. So it's a decision made in June of the month that can be considered a decision to abolish those courts. So, by September 1st, they'll finish their proceedings, hand over the other items here, and they'll have nothing more to do. So the whole procedure is imagined in terms of the transfer of these cases to the judicial authorities of Kosovo and a direct call to the Agreement. All these days, you've been walking around the Agreement like a cat around a porridge, you've explicitly claimed that he's not the cause of this Article 12, but that's one solution that's in this extortion, etc. etc. It is clear from this decision that the agreement is the basis of all this, apart from the fact mentioned by my colleague Palalic, that the agreement was explicitly in the Justice Reform Strategy as a framework within which part of this problem will be regulated. Mr. Minister, you are a minister of your office and a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. You know this decision, I don't know if you've been to that session, whether you've decided, but in any case you know her well, and you haven't mentioned her once during these several days of debate. So what it really needed to show is that the decision to abolish these courts has already been made, and that they have a precise time limit until they work, and what happens to the items they receive after a certain deadline. It was simply put ad act was not mentioned in this debate which, which is, to say the key thing to understand the whole of this procedure, Article 12, and Article 17, where it is determined that the courts will work until a special law is passed, and of course the arguments which also repeats it. So that's where he asks the question of the double track. So we have one road to the road, which is this time an empty right “juss Nudum. ” So one day a special law will be passed, which the Constitution does not otherwise know, but this discussion has already been carried out, which will end in a favourable way in our interests of our entire system, and especially its work in Kosovo. This road that goes through the woods, he says – The Supreme Council of the Judiciary made the right decisions, which, in fact, completes the work of these three courts which are explicitly mentioned in point 1. Then you still have a decision by the Republic of State Prosecutor's Office working in Mitrovica that they will cease their operation by 1 September 2013. So we have one way of arguing about this empty form, one way to convince our public opinion and the MPs from the future that one day this law will all scream. You have this other thing that's over, which is a policy of done facts, it's made by the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, and you still have an additional problem under which the Supreme Council of the Judiciary has made such a decision. In the law on his work and the Law on Courts, where the activity and domain of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is mentioned, there is simply no possibility that the Supreme Council of the judiciary can make a special decision on one political decision, which is to establish this Agreement which, in fact, we see a relevant framework for all of this. There's one thing that's said today that's absolutely true. So, if you stick to Article 182. The Constitution and the need to pass a constitutional law on essential autonomy is, in fact, the agreement is the content of and essential autonomy as you see it and how you implement it. As for the content of essential autonomy that you asked if there is any content other than that of Article 182 that is unknown to anyone, I have to tell you first something in principle, so to speak, an older man than you, that it's not a problem when someone doesn't know something, but when someone doesn't ask. Namely, there is a document on this and you can read it and today you have it in the archives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Platform for Negotiations with the January 2006 provisional institutions of self-government, defines on pages 12 to 14 the content of essential autonomy for Kosovo. The document was published in May 2006. In view of this content adopted by the Government and adopted by parliament where it was discussed, the constitutional provision of Article 182 follows, therefore with this very content, and is not an empty form, but simply one for this purpose of the constitutional provision is quite enough, and behind it is a plan behind which those political factors who have actually started the whole procedure of constitutional change. So there are more questions. Our justice system is obviously all blown up with these things. Em, the Supreme Council of the judiciary can't make that decision, he made a decision. Em, that decision is unconstitutional. Em, that decision is not mentioned in the entire assembly debate of the day-to-day, where these fateful matters are discussed for our judiciary when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija territory. Em, there's a special law that promises to regulate it, and it's already over. We have a whole set of questions that remain open and where not only works in an inadequate way in a highly sensitive area such as the judicial system but actually throws dust in the eyes of the public and MPs in this congregation. How can I say by discretion and discreet behavior when it comes to these decisions that have already been made? So I'm curious why it was done that way? Is this the way to operate on these very difficult and delicate issues? But let me say the next thing. It is understood that our judicial system could not function on the entire territory of Kosovo and Metohija, but what the Serbian government could provide since 2008, from the moment the temporary authorities in Kosovo no longer exist, the temporary institutions of self-government have already been transformed by an illegal decision, a unilateral decision to an independent Kosovo. That the Republic of Serbia has remained available in real life only to manage the space it can manage. Given UNMIK's official stance and later EULEX that they act in a statusual manner. The proof of this was their recognition of our municipalities, the 24 municipalities on which we held elections on 11 May 2008, established our authority and managed them to the extent that we could, as a state. This thing "mutatis mutandis" refers to our judiciary. So we had ways and opportunities to preserve the courts in Mitrovica, and now we didn't need the model of events that now violently took place south of Mitrovica, to make it our model for the northern part of Mitrovica. What you have done is actually that you are this extortion which could not be influenced by the transfer and said – when it goes south let it go north. You see, Mr. Minister, that's a purely political question. This is now a political issue, if Serbia surrenders north of Kosovo, it concerns the overall issue, so both institutions and local self-government and courts and other competences. If she gives up northern Kosovo, then she gives up the whole of Kosovo. If he doesn't give up northern Kosovo, then he doesn't teach Kosovo at all because what south of Ibra is something the state can't influence in the present state of affairs, but the matter doesn't end. By law like this and by laws like this, you are actually doing the same thing you did in matters of municipalities. These four municipalities have been handed over to Kosovo by these elections. The whole procedure was carried out under Kosovo's laws, as you know, was decided by Kosovo's authorities. The elections were called by Kosovo authorities. The Central Election Commission burned and burned there. Then we shouldn't have complained to anyone but them, of course. The courts of Kosovo, as you say, are the only ones that are functional, and these are not ours, so they have no reason to complain, but with a clear view of the state, to defend what can be proved not to be released nor what we cannot hold. This judiciary could have acted in northern Kosovo with courts in Mitrovica that used to work, and then they were interrupted, so they were working again, so now our country is undoing them with these decisions. So, not only this law and these provisions, but specifically Articles 12 and 17, but also decisions such as those mentioned by the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Prosecutor's Office. Mr. Minister, that is an explanation why we believe that this Article 12 and 17 should be deleted, because in that case, as our previous amendments show, we remain the status quo in the part that cannot be applied, of course, to the whole of Kosovo, but can be where it can be. We simply believe that it is a policy that shows that the state interests, sovereignty, integrity are defended, and hence the provision of Article 142 that the judicial authority in the Republic of Serbia is unique. So, if you do not accept the unity of the judicial authority then accept the unity of the Kosovo judiciary in their territory, and that is what it says at the point of the 10th of this agreement that you mention both in the Strategy and in the decision and it is now applicable to you, and as your experience or your reading is said, your perception of essential autonomy, not what the Serbian authorities already adopted in 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27778	The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27779	I thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when I want to comment on an act I take first and read it from the beginning to the end. If someone wants to interpret any act issued by the VSS or the republican public prosecutor, then take it and read it and comment it, not based on the story of interpretation, paraphrasing the act, because that act has been read, it would be seen that in the functioning of the judicial bodies of the Republic of Serbia in the area of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija, for the period before June 2013 and after June 2013, it hardly changes anything, in the actual functioning of the judicial authorities. I'll be very happy to go into the debate at the moment when I'm going into the debate with the one I'm going to make sure he's read it and he's familiar with it. What is essential autonomy, and what is not, I appreciate the period when the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was brought. It was stated that in January 2006, a negotiating platform defined what essential autonomy is. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia was adopted in November 2006. Whether the Constitution was referring to a platform or not, not at all. The fact that it was someone's negotiating platform, it was the sighting of those who brought the platform and at one point what should be essential autonomy. If you remember the first time I mentioned essential autonomy, I asked myself a rhetorical question, saying whether it was more than autonomy and less than independence, which was again difficult to identify and shape. Whether some courts are functional or not, that's what citizens themselves must say. If our judicial authorities could have acted on the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that in March 2004, an investigative judge of the County Court in Pristina, who was then moved to Nis, would have gone to make an insight, say in Caglavica, Laplem Village, where people were expelled from, but that didn't happen. I don't want to get into the story of why, but it's just that it's not. As we are now talking about courts in Kosovo Mitrovica, how to imagine criminal proceedings, if the judge cannot determine detention, and it is necessary to determine the detention of the accused. What's functional and what's not, that's a whole other question. What we do with this law, and it is said at one point – you do with this law and a few things are listed, we are trying to apply this law to the solution applied by the founder. Don't kid yourself, that 182th of our constitution, and I personally think he's a good member, is something that leaves us open the door. Those of you who know deep this problem well, let's just say that from a bono over 40 years, no one has been able to carry out any of their warrants in, say, Dresden. I think I've said enough.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27780	Replica Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27781	Mr. Minister, I have that decision ahead of me, but I shouldn't be reading it right now because it would take me more than two minutes. Are you saying that there is no decision to complete the case in front of these courts that I have listed, that there is no decision that cases that are not completed are handed over to Eulex, that there is no decision to hand those cases over to the judicial authorities of Kosovo under the first agreement. So, only three things I've listed. Are you saying there's no such thing as a decision? That's the first thing, we can't convince ourselves now except to read in front of everyone and then to interpret at a seminar, but these are the things that are over and that's the policy of the finished acts that I'm talking about, the political side of your decisions, so there's no need to discuss it anymore. Again, the fact remains that you are very enigmatically the decision that is very important for the functioning and functioning of these courts and their further fate has been ignored by all this debate. I see one in the absence of that fact, so to speak, the strategy of the show, it's just my opinion, because it's a very important decision and you can't ignore it. As for essential autonomy, you see, you asked a question about two hours ago. Has anyone ever defined that? That's the answer to that question. You don't think the Constitution could call for a political decision, therefore, expressis verbis, in a provision that has a general character? I mean, what does that remark look like? It just doesn't work and it doesn't stand. A lot of things are blurry here, you understand, and yet it's the task of the law to clear up and the task of the law is to make some relationships clear. The task of the law is to make some relationships clear. The task of these provisions that I'm talking about is not to solve the problem, but to actually hide that way of solving that's working and that's our point. If you believe that these courts should be part of the judicial system of Kosovo, as you have found at point 3 of this decision, then say so, then we will conduct a different debate, perhaps clearer and more correct than this one is now. This excess rhetoric that we have now used is the result of our discomfort to discuss with politicians who are being dishonest, who are talking and working.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27782	Three minutes, Mr. Samardzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27783	We learned, and I'm finishing the sentence, so we don't listen to what anybody's saying, but watch what they do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27784	Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27785	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's precisely in the last words spoken that the key. Politicians who are being dishonest. If someone wanted to be extremely honest then he would have read that the acts spoken of were their own, i.e. were temporal character and that they were exhausted because on September 1st they had expired the period they were referring to and that something had been skillfully negotiated which, I am sorry that someone was unable to see or not want to see it, but I think that the very skillful negotiating something was done by these acts. What? anyone who wants to know can find out. When you're seriously entering one business, if you have the opposite side in that business, you don't reveal to her what you're going to do. The problem is that someone doesn't trust someone. You can either trust me or you can trust me. The task of the law is to be alive, if it weren't for that we would still, say, apply the death penalty, but the law should be close to reality and life, and as a lawyer, I really stand firm in that position. Without wanting to rephrase at all, especially because of what I said at the beginning of this replica, I think it's more than clear and it would be correct if we didn't open the subject at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27786	According to Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18.00 hours, given the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Replica Slobodan Samardzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27787	Mr. Minister, I understand your intervention. You're saying there's an ace up your sleeve that you'll apply after December 31st. That might be from some state-of-the-art point of view entirely justified that we faithfully believe in it. What we don't believe in is your behavior so far. If you had run that policy so far in Serbia's state interests, then we could have waited calmly for December 31st, with some confidence to wait for this material solution that should not be revealed to the opponent, and then all of us to celebrate on January 1st, not the New Year, but the entry into force of solutions that will be superior. But the problem is this trust stuff. Let's just take these elections as they've been made, starting with the provisions of the agreement, through the implementation plan, through the release of the centre to the electoral commission to do whatever it takes, etc. Then why should we trust you as the minister of one resistor when the entire government in which you work leads a consistent policy of surrendering Kosovo? Should we believe that in 99% of the cases your policy is wrong and at one percent, and this law is correct? It's simply an atmosphere that is bad, which is not good for the state interests and which this government has mastered with its one-sided moves. This is a context why we think this law, which is due to enter into force on 31 December, does not provide a solution. If you pass a law on December 31st to ensure that these courts continue to be in Serbia's legal and judicial system, we will give you the first next one in the first parliamentary debate. Don't doubt that, but we doubt that now.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27788	Time. I'm setting a break. We'll be back to work at 16.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27789	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work in the afternoon. Anyone else want a word? If not, then we'll go to the next amendment. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 13. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27790	As an authorised proposing representative, I accept the amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27791	I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted the amendment itself to Article 14. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27792	Also, on behalf of the authorising officer, I accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27793	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 14th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27794	You see, dear colleagues and colleagues, I submitted this amendment significantly, significantly before the Committee remembered to give such an amendment, which was accepted by the Executive Authority, or by the Minister on behalf of the Government. Namely, for the first time when the Law on the Network of Courts came I said – aman, people, what are you doing about setting up the performers of office, even in places where the president was elected? So the second time, then the third time and now for the third time when this law arrived, I immediately said – what are you playing with Mr. Milenkovic, at the time still called President of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade? When there was a choice, I said that then the executive authority, practically, said – turkey, dots, did not apply the proposal of the VSS, which is chaired by the Committee on Justice and in which the minister of justice sits. What was that about? The text of the law states, in Article 14(4). - until the date of application of this law, the VSS will appoint the acting presidents in the courts established by this law, whose area has been amended by this law. So, if the court of appeals is changed in Belgrade, turkey, dots, Mr. Milenkovic's choice is not valid. I get the government's response that that's not the case, because it says -- it doesn't stop the function of the President elected in accordance with the Law on Judges in the event of a change in the jurisdiction of the courts. If that's true what the government wrote me in response, then it's not true what the government has accepted as an amendment to the Committee. Make a deal. He can't have half the fish, half the girl. It's either one thing or another. There can't be two truths. In this regard, I am pleased that my amendment has been accepted, but that is enough to say that the law is not prepared well enough, especially as regards the Covina Judiciary Unit to go towards Smederev. Upside, what's going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27795	With a little drama, friendlyly, I would just ask all MPs to stick to their time. You've mostly been within the limits of your time. Thank you. Does anyone want a word? (No) Members of the 15th amendment were submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The government didn't accept the amendment. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27796	I'm aware there's no answer when I make the right remarks. I've made some effort to intervene on Article 15. A bill of law regarding public prosecutors. I'll also point out a few things we need to keep in mind. By the day of the entry into force of this law, the transfer of the deputy public prosecutors from the abolished public prosecutors will be carried out in accordance with the Public Prosecutor's Law, abolished. Here, we mentioned an example of Kovin. There's no termination of the public prosecutor's office in Panchev or Smederev. They stay the same. So that's it. There's no transfer of deputies. All those who are from Kovin, who know the terrain, which would normally be to come out with the police department on the spot, in terms of the Law on Prosecution, when something happens, they will not be able to get out, but the prosecutors from the Smederev General's Office will come to see it, and they have no idea where the Athar is, where the border of Bavanista and the City of Pancheva ends. It's illogical. That's what's not well-prepared law in one piece, and I appeal, let's fix these things. True, Article 16 says employees can deploy, but they can't substitute. That's not legal. In that sense, once again, I'm telling you to accept an intervention that goes towards making it better for the citizens of Kovin and for all the citizens, because we're going to be in a situation that over 450 cases in criminal matters start over again. Therefore, if an amendment to Article 3 was accepted, everything else would still be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27797	I thank the People's MP. Anyone else want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted by MP Slobodan Samardzic. The government didn't accept the amendment. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Article 157(6), point (a) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government have submitted an amendment to Article 19. Does anyone want a word? The word has Minister Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27798	As an authorised representative, I accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27799	Thank you. I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Đurić, Bojan Hajdarevic, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Milica Radović, Marko Milutinović, Milos Aligrudić, Miroslav Petković, Jovan Palalić, Slobodan Velic, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Milošević, Zlata Đerić, Dubravka Filipovski, Srdjan Miković, Nenad Konstanović, Slobodan Petković, Olgica Batić and Ana Novković and the amendment Committee for Justice, State Administration and Local Administration. You have received reports from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a search of the bill in particular. Members of the 1st amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) People's MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Oleg Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Miroslav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27800	Thank you. I will briefly, given that the government has accepted the amendment of our colleagues Judite Popovic, Radmila Gerov and Natasha Micic, and we have submitted an almost identical amendment, so in this way I would just like to say that it is good that the amendment is accepted because it greatly improves the proposed text of the law and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27801	Thank you. The 2nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word of the Messenger of the people is John Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27802	Thank you. Mr. Minister, colleagues from the ministry, fellow MPs, this is a subject that is very important, this is one constitutional right, the right to trial within a reasonable period and it is absolutely certain that citizens, when it comes to the right, are very interested, given the situation in which the judiciary is located, in view of all the long-term procedures. In our opinion, this member is quite complicated and in some sense vague. First, the question of proper compensation. If someone has suffered damage, then it's said to be a shame. What's the appropriate fee? It's one thing that in legal traffic is not too familiar, not clear. On the other hand, the question of a reasonable trial, we think it can be solved in a different way. Certainly, it is better to resolve the establishment of an effective judicial system, an effective disciplinary procedure when it comes to trials, better supervision, than to introduce a massive and complicated procedure, as envisaged here. Of course, the mandatory instruction that these members are required to give a lower court to rule on the matter within a certain period, is the question of whether it will be implemented. What if they don't? It's one thing that's also unclear and controversial for us. In any case, we believe that the introduction of more effective actions by judges of greater supervision, stronger disciplinary responsibilities, is something that can contribute in a better way that this constitutional law, which is important for citizens, is realized, than as you have suggested here, respecting the legitimate concern you have in view of the legacy you have found, a large number of pending cases, chaos in the judiciary. We think that the longer-term goal of establishing an effective judicial system, a more responsible trial, is a better way.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27803	Thank you. People's MP Milica Radovic came forward for the word. Mrs. Radovic, your task force has wasted its time. Only one of the promoters can speak for two minutes. (Milica Radovic, from the post: As an authorised representative. You've spent all your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27804	We've wasted group time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27805	Mr Samardzic spent all his time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27806	He can't spend his time as an authorised representative. He can spend the time of a parliamentary group, not an authorised representative. That's what you were obliged to warn him about. We can take a break. Consult the service. The time of an authorised representative may only be used by an authorised representative. Mr Samardzic was not an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27807	Of course, I like the way you talk, but I'm just saying it's because of the Rules of Procedure. He can also use the head of the parliamentary group. That's the interpretation the Assembly's always had so far. The president of the assembly said that.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27808	This is the first time I've heard of it. I've been an MP for 10 years, and I've never heard such an explanation in my life. It is clear that the time of the authorised representative can be used by the sole authorised representative. I'm an authorised representative for all of these four points that are on the agenda today. Mr Samardzic is the president of the parliamentary club, but he can't use my time and he hasn't used it. Even if you included all the time he was using, it's not possible he could have used all the time I've been authorized to do.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27809	Since I have a deputy secretary here, he tells me it's been publicly found that time has been spent. I'm not gonna stop you from talking in that case, but I have to say we're opening a new topic here. This is no longer related to the debate on amendments, this is how time available to the parliamentary group can be used. In your interpretation, then the Assembly has to find out, and so far it's been found different, there's a time, but not to take away now from the total time of the debate, so the head of the parliamentary group can use it, not just the authorised representative. Anyway, here you go, Mrs. Radovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27810	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your tolerance. That tolerance of yours, I will answer by no longer reporting as authorized, except for the use of that time provided for in the amendment debate. With this amendment, which my predecessor, Mr Palalic, explained, we asked that a member who refers to the protection of the right to trial be deleted within a reasonable period of time. This may seem very illogical to someone, but we believe that the way these provisions are formulated, these provisions will not achieve the purpose that the billmaker had in mind, and that is precisely to speed up court proceedings within a reasonable period of time. For what? Of course, I'll make an argument as to why I think so. This way simply introduces a system of very expensive parallel processes for the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. It seems to me that it only removes symptoms, not the causes of this problem. If we were to deal with the problem itself and the reason why there is a breach of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, then we would be quite clear that one of the basic reasons is that judges and courts are disproportionately burdened and that judges are under constant pressure of effective action, given that this efficiency is understood in a completely different way, I would say the wrong way in the sense that effective action is taking as many judgments as possible within the shortest time limit, rather than being understood in a way that effective action of making better decisions is within a reasonable time. I think now that we're talking about introducing this possibility through the Courts' Law, I'm afraid a solution like this would simply encourage a large number of parties to make demands, requesting a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, even in those situations where it would be quite unwarranted. A very expensive system of parallel procedures will be created that will not make citizens any better, and I fear that the state could and could face a major financial blow. There's another reason why I don't think this solution is justified. That's what directly senior courts would be in one situation, to say quite unfavourable to themselves, that perhaps they would spend a lot more time on resolving the requirements for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, and that they would question their regular trials. Therefore, they would question whether they are acting in their regular procedures on the principle of trial within a reasonable period of time. I think this solution will be one of the basic next amendments to this bill, because practice will show that it is in this form unsustainable. Thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27811	Thank you, Mrs. Radovic. National MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic together submitted the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The People's MPs Zlata Djeric and Dubravka Filipovski submitted to the 2nd amendment. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government pursuant to Article 157(6). The Rules of Procedure have tabled an amendment to Article 2. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27812	I accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27813	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27814	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are some things that are meant to be. Legal assistance between courts, co-operation of courts with state authorities is understood in accordance with the positive rules and inter alia, jurisdiction and tolerance in the conduct of the session of parliament. Mr. Vice President, a few minutes ago you showed what it looks like when a session is conducted with one serious dose of tolerance and I sincerely congratulate you on that. Unfortunately, in the afternoon part of the session, we witnessed something that directly opposes this kind of decency and tolerance that you have shown. Namely, when the chairman, Mr Arsenovic, refused to allow Mr Halimi to replicate and when MP Halimi tried through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, calling for Article 107 to express his disagreement with the minister's position, the chairman simply said that if he could not explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure, in that case he should give up his reasoning. In this way, an ugly picture, a picture of intolerance, has gone out of this parliament, especially as it comes to an MP who comes from the ranks of national minorities. Earlier, the majority made up by this parliament must have a certain dose of tolerance towards the minority, in which case to MP Halimi.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27815	People's MPs, I know you've commended me, and I seem to be contradicting myself, but time is up, two minutes and 20 seconds. Second, we have to stick to the point. Since I wasn't at that point in the O.R., I should have asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure at the time and asked to discuss it in Voting Day. So I think maybe that's when you should react and say it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27816	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Otherwise, I used part of the time of the parliamentary group, given that in the meantime, I spent the time planned for an authorised representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27817	Let me just ask the MPs. I will not prevent anyone from speaking, for I have always felt that I will think as long as I exist that the assembly is where the MPs came to speak. MPs are free to speak and there is no assembly where MPs can't say everything they think, absolutely anything. I guess this is the only place where everything can be said, but I'm only paying attention because of the efficiency in the work. I thank you for your commendation. Let's move on. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27818	I am extremely happy and pleased that they have been accepted, not only my amendment, but also the amendment of my colleagues, Mr Nenad Konstantinović and Slobodan Homen, who intervened in the same article and practically enabled the Supreme Court to decide in disputes on copyright and related rights and to protect the use of inventions, industrial designs, models, patterns, stamps. So, not only the Court of Commerce, but when it comes to natural persons, practically the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court has done it before, and I think that's good. It is interesting that only the Supreme Court in Belgrade will now do so and it is interesting, given that Mr Konstantinovic has given the amendment, that already Europe has said – no, only the Supreme Court in Belgrade can do so, due to the unification of practice. It is interesting how fast Europe was to say – no, not all the higher courts but only the High Court in Belgrade. That's how we got the information. There is a possibility of harmonisation of practices within the framework of the VCS, Article 8 of this same law speaks of it. There was a possibility of that, too. Again, I am pleased that my amendment has been adopted. I'll say it soon. In relation to the first draft of the law, it is good that 359 and 234 do not judge the Supreme Court both for Section 1 and for Section 2 and for Section 3. Those in criminal matter know it very well, otherwise they would be buried in higher courts. It's a good thing the situation was fixed in June and the bill came without it. So right, it stays 359th and 234th and attitude 3rd alone. I gave the same amendment to that law, as I gave the amendment and four months later, in October, so that we would not forget our country's Serbia. If the Supreme Court sees foreign and international organizations as a criminal offence, it is upside down not to judge and damage our country's reputation. And I'm glad my amendment was accepted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27819	My service to the country is that everyone is now in two minutes with replicas. Thank you. Are any of the other MPs answering for a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 7th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinovic and Slobodan Homen. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 8. The Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Nikola Selakovic has.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27820	I accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27821	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Nenad Konstantinovic and Slobodan Homen. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of course I'll talk about the amendment. That's understood. That's why I got my word, and otherwise I would assume that when the other messengers get the word, they talk about the subject of the agenda, and they don't get the one who speaks. I'll stick to these two minutes even though I have time for a parliamentary group. As I said at the meeting of the Justice Committee, I believe that such a solution to the bill is made one big mistake, given that the principle of legal position is also important, especially if those views are adopted by the Supreme Court of Cassation for the sake of unification of legal practice and legal certainty and one legal predictability. Unfortunately, you're abolishing the possibility that principled legal views are being brought where they should be brought to the highest court, where the most valuable lawyers sit, I suppose. Unfortunately, various laws are passed in Serbia, often unarranged, sublegal acts are even more confusing to implement these laws. For this reason, it is necessary to create a legal certainty for citizens who will clearly know how and what they can expect if they respect, or do not comply with the law, to initiate some judicial procedure or to give up in advance, knowing that it is unspeakable. That is why I think it is necessary to think about leaving the practice so far in terms of one legal certainty, which is the principle of legal views.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27823	The 17th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted together to the 20th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 21 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jovan Palalic. Since the Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 22nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 22. The Constitutional Affairs and Law Committee believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, Minister Nikola Selakovic has.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27824	I accept the amendment of the Committee.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27825	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. Mr. Palalic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27826	We don't think it's necessary to introduce the court's director's institute. The whole situation in which the judiciary is in all these complex problems in which it is located, and especially after the creation of a new network of courts after the adoption of this law, additional burdens and further harmonisation of relations within the administration of a single court, by introducing a court manager, I think it is completely irrational and unnecessary and will require additional costs. Since we all know that every court has a court secretary who is entrusted with these kinds of affairs that are now intended to be entrusted to the governor of the court, we are not clear to us, regardless of the possibility of getting rid of it in court, what will the Secretary of the Court do then? It's not easy to regulate relations within the administration of one court. We believe that, apart from the President of the Court, the court's secretary-in-Office will create a situation that can eventually hunt things down when it comes to the President of the Court and its responsibility to further complicate. We think it's quite enough that the secretary of the court is doing these material and financial affairs, that in the extreme line so far things have worked out, and we don't see that we've got the right explanation why the governor of the court is necessary. In the previous period we had a lot of problems with the management of the courts and we had the presidents of the courts in V.D. condition. Even the reasoning I heard about the previous introduction of a network of courts in order to manage less with the president of the courts was one story that could be heard. I'm talking about the 2008 network. There's no need for this new institute. It cost em not to solve key problems, regardless of what amendment the Committee has proposed to fix, the Institute itself is in our opinion irrational.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27827	The 23rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Bojan Djuric and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinović, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted the 24th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) National MP Miroslav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27828	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Article 24. You have provided for the bill to be brought to the attention of court assistants to be governed by the act of the minister responsible for the judiciary. In order to strengthen judicial independence, our parliamentary group believes that this job, that is, this decision should be taken by the High Council of the judiciary as provided for by the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary. They determine the number of judges, on which the number of court staff, judicial assistants and trainees and other officials depend inevitably. This is our attempt not to equate the judicial assistants with the administrative staff and therefore we believe that this should be an act on which the decision should be taken by the High Council of the judiciary and thus protect the independence of the judiciary because we think that, Minister, I know what you're going to tell me, are judicial assistants civil servants. At least let us at least try to avoid any possibility of the Secretary-General's influence on the choice of judicial assistants.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27829	Thank you. On Article 25 of the amendment, in the same text, the MPs Olgica Batic and Ana Novkovic submitted. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a national message, Ana Novkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27830	Thank you. The united regions of Serbia have submitted an amendment requiring the calling of a judicial adviser to exist, not only in the courts of the republican rank and in the appeals courts, as proposed, but also in higher and basic courts. We believe that this amendment is in line with the adopted National Strategy for Justice Reform, which is just predicting the need for a high degree of professionalisation of the work of judicial assistants in all courts in Serbia. Also, we believe that professionalization is necessary at all levels and in courts. Somewhere we have reduced the availability of justice to citizens, especially those in smaller areas, but we find it inadmissible that and when professionalising court work we bring courts to such a difference. That's why, Mr. Minister, I urge you once again to consider and allow the calling of a judicial advisor to exist in both senior and primary courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27831	Thank you. National MP Nenad Konstantinovic submitted to the 26th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 26th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Mrs. Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27832	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, this amendment has asked us to take advantage of those candidates who had a high average grade after the law school was completed. We believe that this provision should not have been deleted, that it should have been left in the bill, but, of course, none of us has ambition or desire to simply now represent the view that this high assessment or average assessment should be the only criterion to be taken into account. On the contrary, it should be one of the criteria, but we must never get into a situation so that it is absolutely not daggered and that in this case, in this bill, it is deleted. In the second part of our amendment, we asked for the court trainees' procedure to be brought closer to the order of the High Council of the judiciary, not by the act of the minister responsible for the judiciary. I understand that this amendment of ours may be the result of a different concept that we have in relation to independence or strengthening the independence of the judiciary, but we simply thought that this amendment had reason to be considered and to be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27833	Thank you. The 27th amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27834	The amendment refers to a different division of jurisdiction in the conduct of judicial administration affairs between the Supreme Council of the judiciary and between the Ministry of Justice and the State Administration, providing that the High Council of the Judiciary takes over the majority of the power of the Justice Ministry, which goes towards strengthening judicial independence. I think it is most natural for the High Judicial Council to monitor the handling of cases within the prescribed deadlines and to monitor the conduct of performances and complaints. The 1992 Law on Judges was also clearly delimited between the Ministry and between the then Supreme Court, because at that time the High Council of the Court did not exist and the Ministry was responsible for overseeing the Rules of Procedure, and the Supreme Court was then overseeing cases and complaints, or representations. If I am not mistaken, even in the opinion of the Venice Commission, let some doubt as to whether this authority of the ministry is clear. They seem to have used the term – unequivocally requires clarification and understanding. In that sense, I think it's a good thing we've submitted this amendment. If nothing, then at least for the chance to consider it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27835	Thank you. The 29th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 31. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27836	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27837	I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 32nd Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) I have two registered in the system, Miroslav Petkovic and Milica Radovic. Who wants to talk? Here you go, Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27838	Thank you, Chairman. This member shall provide for a period within which certain powers which the Ministry of Justice has at the moment are to be transferred to the jurisdiction of the High Council of the judiciary. In the draft law it is June 1st 2016. We believe that this is too long a deadline, regardless of the technical and personnel problems that exist and at the moment, but we think that for three years it is too long a period and we think it is much more appropriate for the High Council of the Judiciary to take over these responsibilities, not to quote them here now. So I urge you once again to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27839	Thank you. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, pursuant to Article 157(6). Rules of Procedure, he has submitted an amendment to Article 31. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27840	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27841	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. The National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 3rd point of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to Judges You have received amendments submitted to the bill by the MPs: Olgica Batić, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic, Kenan Hajdarevic, Milica Radović, Marko Milutinović, Milos Aligrudić, Miroslav Petrovic, Jovan Palalić, Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veseinović, Nenad Konstantinović, Slobodan Homen, Slobodan Velič, Slobodan Jeremic, Ljubica Miloševic, Jelena Travar Miljević, Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, as well as well as the Committee for Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Gover. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 1st of the amendment was tabled by the People's MP, Olgica Batic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic submitted to the 1st amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalic together submitted to the 2nd amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National Ambassador, Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27842	With this amendment, we asked that, in addition to judges and judicial assistants, trainees have the right to association in professional associations, to protect their interests and in the extreme case of preserving their independence and independence in work. I have to admit that I really had no intention of submitting this amendment until the moment I read the bill to the prosecutions where you provided for the possibility in this proposal that the prosecutor's assistants and the prosecutor's interns would have the right to association. For this reason, I felt that this provision should also be provided for in the proposal for a law on judges, because it is, in fact, the regulation of the same thing in two completely different ways. I mean, of course, that nothing prevents you from accepting this amendment, especially because you, in the Prosecution Act on Prosecutors, have conducted this intervention and changed the applicable law in this regard to allow prosecutors and prosecutorial assistants the right to association. Although in an explanation of why you refuse this amendment, you say that the Law on Judges does not regulate the rights of judges and trainees, although that is the case, then I wonder how it is possible that this law is governed just when it comes to prosecutorial assistants and prosecutorial interns in the Prosecutor's Law on Prosecutions?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27843	The 4th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mrs. Radojevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27844	We asked the amendment to remain in Article 4 a solution which has been valid so far, which it says – if the court is suspended, the judge continues to serve in a court that assumes jurisdiction, or in a court of the same kind and in the same degree, or approximately the same degree. The High Council of the Judiciary makes a decision in which court the judge continues to act. We believe that this solution is necessary to remain in the bill, because it is much better than the solution you have foreseen in the next article. It is also in some way a guarantee that the judge continues his post in court of the same type and in the same degree. In an explanation of why you do not accept this amendment, it is said – that the issue of continuing the court's office in the event of the court's suspension is regulated in Article 6. But in Article 4, it was done in a much better way because it's not the same thing when the judge continues, let's say, his office in the Court of Appeal and in the Court of Appeal, you have to admit, it's not the same thing. Furthermore, since the argument points to Article 6 I must note that the amendment of the Committee on Justice has been intervened and that this Article 6 has been drastically corrected, and that some of the objections that we have raised in the principle debate, which relate to that part of the change, i.e. the abolition of jurisdiction, and that you have simply foreseen and agreed that provision of the law with the Constitution. I think it's very good to eat in the principle debate, I don't think we understand each other very well. This confirms that we were right. Of course, I don't think it's bad to think about it again, because the only difference is that in this article is that the judge continues his office in the court of the same degree and the same kind, and in this Article 6 he only talks about continuing his post in the court of the same degree. That's the only difference.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27845	Thank you. Is there something the minister wants to say? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popvic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) Here you go, Mr. Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27846	This amendment refers to the transfer of judges to another court without its consent, and it is good that yesterday on the Committee we practically adopted the proposal that we put forward here in the principle debate, which through its amendment the Committee has just proposed this amendment, and which is accepted and which will be an integral part of the text because I think it greatly improves the text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27847	Pursuant to Article 6 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27848	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27849	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Nenad Konstantinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27850	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor, I cannot understand why you did not accept this amendment if, I would say, at least you're advocating the efficiency of the judiciary. We have asked that any longer absence of the judge require that his cases be assigned to another judge for trial. You say in your proposal – only if this item is urgent by law or by its essence. Does that mean that the judge who went on maternity leave will be absent for a year or two days, that all her cases that are not urgent by law or by their essence should wait two years and be preserved? Of course not, if not, this is what the second judge will be assigned to us if they meet this condition. We asked that these two words “emergent by law or by their essence” be deleted and that all such items, I cited one example of the absence of the judge, and these may be some other examples that require his longer absence. For what? In order to increase the efficiency of the judiciary, these cases would not be assigned to another judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27851	Thank you. The 10th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Borislav Stefanović, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Nenad Konstantinović and Slobodan Homen. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept this amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27852	Our amendment referred to the fact that the judge could not give any advice to other persons at any time during his duties as judge. You've changed that and indicated in these amendments and additions to the law that the judge can't give legal advice with compensation. And what other advice can the judge give to citizens, other persons? What did you do that for? What did you really intend to do with this? So someone can show up, physical face, come to the judge – good afternoon, please give me advice. The judge says you know what it costs 50,000. He can make a legal deal with a physical face about some advice. From which branch it would be, I don't know, but you left that opportunity open, and not only did you make a new law, so let's say that you lost it, but you changed the existing provision and you said – you can't give legal advice, and all other advice can be given at a fee. Mr. Secretary, talk to us. Tell us what this is about. What legal advice can the judge give with compensation? Can he give? Is that what you're all about? Is that what you're saying? What's that?
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27853	Thank you. The 11th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Slobodan Veličković, Slobodan Jeremic and Ljubica Milosevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment was submitted by MP Jelena Travar Miljevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 18 of the amendment, the same text was brought together by Parliamentarians Olgica Batic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The government and the Committee on Justice and State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk letter from Judita Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27854	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have submitted this amendment, primarily bearing in mind the need to preserve the independence of the judiciary, to preserve the independence of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, above all, in proposing for the first time elected judges and prosecutors. So here's what we've modified with our amendment by actually proposing to delete it. It is said – The High Council of the Judiciary is obliged to propose a candidate who has completed the initial training of the Judicial Academy in accordance with special law when proposing candidates for the selection of judges of the criminal or basic court. So, you in this position of this Article 18. The bill of law is, in fact, binding on the High Judicial Council to consider only candidates who have completed their initial training at the Judicial Academy. In this way you actually transfer the choice of judges and prosecutors to the Judicial Academy because the hands of the High Council of the judiciary are tied to the proposal of this, how can I tell you, the institutions, the Judicial Academy is one institution. She actually called a contest, received a number of members of the academy. These students of the academy completed their initial training and thus qualified themselves for future judges, there are no others. The High Council of the Judiciary is the only one who determines the annual number of judges needed and in this case proposes how much it actually takes for this Judicial Academy to receive initial training. In this case, the Management Board, the Programme Council and the fact-finding committee established by this Programme Council within the Justice Academy determine who will be accepted in initial training, who will complete this initial training and in fact who will be first elected to the Judge or Prosecutor, or Deputy Prosecutor. In this way, we are directly destroying constitutional principles regarding the independence of the judiciary. I don't think this is a good solution. It has been identified to what extent the member is 40th and 26th. The Law on the Judicial Academy is also problematic in terms of constitutionality, and an initiative for the assessment of constitutionality has been launched. The Constitutional Court replied on 25 September 2013, that it had adopted a solution initiating the procedure to determine the non-constitutional nature of Article 26(3) and Article 40, paragraphs 8, 9 and 11. In the light of this solution, the Constitutional Court is clear on the fact that it has found elements of the non-constitutional nature of that provision of the Law on the Judicial Academy. Nevertheless, you are proposing these amendments to the Law on Judges which are for the purpose of respecting the provisions of the Law on Judges with these troubled members of the Law on the Judicial Academy. What's this about? What will you do in the event that the Constitutional Court's decision is positive in terms of accepting this assessment of constitutionality and that these members of the Law on the Judicial Academy are unconstitutional? And in the meantime, you've made this decision through these laws, these amendments to the Law on Judges. Will you then propose to amend this Law on Judges? You're simply doing things that are completely unnecessary, and by doing so largely, they bring confusion into the functioning of the entire judiciary. You are aware of this, and we have discussed on the Justice Committee how much this way, if the Law on the Judicial Academy, 2,500 assistants and prosecutors, has been left aside, marginalized and placed in an unequal position in relation to those students and those who completed that training of the Judicial Academy. The question is, to what extent do we want to have judges and deputies and prosecutors tomorrow, do we want to have competent people, ambitious people at these very important functions, or are we going back to some way with opportunism and we allow that continuity of negative selection to continue. You in this way, when you allow an entirely anonymous commission to decide who your judge or prosecutor will be tomorrow, you question the rule of law. In this way, you make it impossible for the Serbian judiciary to change significantly, and you actually lower the criteria, lower the quality of the trial, and in fact, I don't know how you think you're going to make some progress in terms of European standards, when it comes to trials and the processing of certain citizens who commit crimes. In this way, we will not get judges and deputy prosecutors from integrity we will not get one cured judiciary and in this way we will only destabilise a large number of young, smart, capable and professional judicial assistants and prosecutorial assistants, who will work for years without any opportunity to achieve some of their ambitions in the judiciary, because they will simply lose themselves in this maze of administration, in fact working in anonymity next to judges and simply will not have the will or desire to improve this so problematic judiciary in any way. Mr. Minister, you're also a young man and you've progressed very quickly, in young years you've become a minister and I assume you have a hearing for ambitious people, that you have a hearing for capable people. You know how much the profession suffers precisely because there is not enough training, that is, that training is not sufficiently perfected to create good judges and good prosecutors. This way we simply make it impossible for something to change. The expertise of a judicial assistant, who worked alongside a particular judge and in a particular matter for years, cannot be compared with that of a member of the Judiciary Academy, who completed training and completed the training in three years. It's really little compared to what someone who's actually going to need to share justice tomorrow, or to press charges. For that reason, I really suggest that you think about this a little bit. Will you wait for the Constitutional Court's decision? Let the Constitutional Court be the one who will take responsibility for the future of justice, not the Ministry of Justice, or the Government, which is only one bad solution in this way further deepens, instead of simply erasing that bad solution. (Ninoslav Girić, from the place: Is there a time, how much he talks? )
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27855	Just a minute. She's using the MP's time group. (2016 Colakovic, from place: No right. How is it gone? I ask the MPs, she uses the legitimate time of the parliamentary group. Each of us holds a session according to his assessment of what the National Assembly is and what its work looks like. I stand by every, absolutely, MP to have the maximum freedom to use that time in the way he thinks he should. It's the only way I can understand the National Assembly. So she's in the time that she's given at her disposal. I'm sorry, we won't be counting on you this time. You've got six minutes from the MP's time.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27856	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I really did not expect this kind of reaction from my fellow Members and fellow MPs, since I am just talking about a young generation that needs help and support and by this legislative body, and we can only provide this support by pointing out some bad solutions in the bill, which prevent these young people from creating something good in advance, not just for their own benefit, but for this country as well. It is about the fact that this bill will prevent the best of those who have graduated from law school, who have completed a traineeship, those who have passed judicial exams and have been hired as judicial assistants by courts, or assistants at the prosecutions, and are also making progress in their careers in terms of election for judges, or prosecutors. The point is that the legal exam is the one that is really the most important in terms of perfecting someone who wants to be a lawyer, that is, to be elected judge one day, or prosecutor one day. It's, in fact, the most important thing. Here, in this House, a bill is passed that doubles, in addition to a judicial examination, this Judicial Academy was introduced, completely unnecessary, which actually destroys and devalues the need for a legal exam. It is that this parliament has to clear up whether it will continue to continue to decide on bad solutions over and over again, or once it steps forward and boldly moves towards something new and towards something that will fix more significantly, among other things, the situation in the judiciary. This way it won't do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27857	Thank you. The 18th Amendment with correction was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. The Government and the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment in the basic text, and the amendments have not been made, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 18th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Milica Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27858	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The amendment that my colleagues and I have made, in fact, we have responded to a member of the draft law on judges where the VSS is said to give priority to the candidate who completed his initial training at the Judiciary Academy. We believe that the concept of basic judicial laws, which I think primarily of the Law on Judges and the Law on Prosecutors, is the wrong concept that these basic laws adapt to the Law on the Judicial Academy and that of the Law on the Judicial Academy, which is the subject of an assessment of constitutionality before the Constitutional Court of Serbia. It's about Article 26 and Article 40. The law of the Judicial Academy that has been challenged. And now to make things even worse, we are with these laws, and with those members of the law, we are agreeing to the Law on Judges and the Law on Prosecutors by predicting that priority is given to candidates who have completed initial training. I think it's a very bad concept you've chosen. Of course, I'm not contesting the possibility that the Judicial Academy will one day get that kind of, to say, the necessary credibility that it can train the staff who will be directly elected today and tomorrow, directly to the judge, but at this point she doesn't have that capacity and it seems to me to be the opinion of the Venice Commission. This raises the question, whether training at the Judicial Academy is just a special condition that will be much more appreciated in the assessment of skills and in the assessment of the expertise of candidates for the judge of the basic, i.e. the criminal court. Of course, here, the Constitutional Court, in its, let me say, decision, has given a very well-intentioned and logical thought as to whether the contested provisions violate the principle of equality of persons in the same legal situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27859	Thank you. Pursuant to Article 19 of the amendment, Article 157(6) shall apply. The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word is Mr. Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27860	I thank the chairman. The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27861	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 22nd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Borislav Stefanovic, Prof. Dr. Janko Veselinović, Nenad Konstantinović and Slobodan Homen together submitted the 24th amendment. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Professor Dr. Janko Veselinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27862	Since the minister did not give me a response to the previous proposal, or a response to the amendment, I assume that the judges, given that your colleague Krstic announced a reduction in salary, will be allowed to deal with additional work to compensate for this loss. When it comes to this amendment, Your Honor, you have suggested that the President of the Court may be elected for five years without the possibility of re-election. Our proposal for an amendment is that the president of the court can be elected for four years with the possibility of re-election. Our proposal has a very simple explanation. In one court where, say, there are 10 judges, each of the judges will one day be president. What is the integrity of this court president when he knows that every judge of his will one day be his president and that he will be the judge? How will he lead this court? The President of the Court is, however, a certain way and a manager. The President of the Court, for example, as we talked the other day, should solve the question in the New Sad that the court has a metal detector. Did you solve that question by the Minister these days? So it's not working yet. This morning we received information on a metal detector in a court in Novi Sad, or in vessels located in a building in Sutjeska. We hope that this will be settled these days. Tell us what you were up to when you limited the possibility that the President of the Court could only be elected once? In the end, the President of the Republic, if we're going to use an analogy, can be chosen twice. I hope, God forbid this one is elected again, but still consider this amendment that the President of the Court, who is a good president, may still be elected for another term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27863	Pursuant to Article 36 of the amendment, Article 157(6) is replaced by the following: The Rules of Procedure were submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The word has a minister of justice, Mr. Nikola Selakovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27864	I thank the chairman. The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27865	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. After we have completed the search on all amendments, I conclude the examination of the draft law in particular and the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, in particular and in general. We move to the 4th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementary of the Law on Public Prosecutorship You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milica Radović, Marko Milutinović, Milos Aligrudić, Miroslav Petkovic, Jovan Palalić, Srdjan Miković, Bojan Kostreš, Đorđe Stojšić, Olena Papuga, Karolj Čizik, Dragan Andrić, Judita Popović, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Mić, Kenan Hajdarevic, Olgica Batić, Mr Vladimir Ilic and Nenad Konstantinović, as well as the Committee of Justice, State Administration and Local Government. You have received a report from the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Government's opinion on the amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The 3rd amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. The People's Messenger, Jovan Palalic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27866	Mr. Minister, we think that there was a better solution in the current law that the existence of a basic court would follow the existence of a basic public prosecutor's office in the area covered by the basic court. During the debate on the Law on So-called Law The network of courts pointed to a problem. It's about eight public prosecutors who simply don't exist, and there are basic courts in these municipalities. I'll read them. It is about Ivanjica, Šid, Priboj, Dimitrovgrad, Sjenica, Majdanpek, Bujanovac and Književec. They're not small municipalities. They are characterized by the fact that they are located in the border area. You here, in the reasons for the refusal of the amendment, pointed to the problem of the inflow of the subject. Yesterday I listened very carefully to your discussion about the inflow of the case determining whether there would be a judicial unit or a department somewhere. I agree with that. I agree with that in principle. However, this is about basic prosecutors in the border area, not small municipalities. You'll admit that neither the Bookmaker nor the Priboy, nor Majdanpek, Shid, I was talking about the Shid municipality today, they're not small municipalities. Certainly, because of their specificity, because they are located at the border, because of the importance of these municipalities for our country, it was not a problem. I don't think it would be a great cost if instead of 58 public prosecutors could form 66, as many as there are basic courts. We did not simply get the right explanation for why we had strayed from the current solution in the law. We think it would be better to stay in the current solution, that these eight important municipalities had a basic public prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27867	The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Srdjan Mikovic. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word is from MP Srdjan Mikovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27868	I have a few things to say. First, the fact is that the current bill, namely the current Law on Public Prosecutorship, had one good solution, which is that the republican public prosecutor is responsible, among other things, for submitting reports to the National Assembly, and then for no reason whatsoever, the executive authority or one who, within the framework of the executive authority, proposes the law, which himself submits a three-month report to the Assembly's competent committee, says and suggests that the republic's prosecutor submits to the National Assembly a regular annual report on the work of public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. So, the executive authority itself says - the prosecution should report once a year, regardless of what the Ministry once gives a three-month report. This seeks to limit the supervisory and control role of the National Assembly as a legislator. We currently have a Code of Criminal Procedure, a prosecutor's investigation. Who's going to ask if it's working or not, but the Justice Committee? I suggested that, except for the regular annual report requested by the National Assembly's committee, but not by the misery proposed in October. That was suggested the first time the law came and the second time. Here I have in front of me: June 22nd when I proposed the same amendment, and then October 22nd. Read the amendments. These people here, the MPs, are doing their job seriously, and they're doing their best, because we want to and we want to check in the report how the Smedereva Prosecutor's Office works in the Kovin territory, and I'm sure it can't be closer to the same, as it is now working while the judicial unit is at the basic court in Pancheva, and that's why the prosecution is doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27869	The 8th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostres, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andric. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Judita Popovic, Radmila Gerov, Natasa Micic and Kenan Hajdarevic. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On Article 11 of the amendment, in the same text, the People's MP, Olgica Batic, and the MP, Mr Vladimir Ilic, submitted. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinović, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) The amendments were jointly submitted by MPs Bojan Kostreš, Djordje Stojsic, Olena Papuga, Karolj Cizik and Dragan Andrić. The Government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law considers that the amendment is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system. Does anyone want a word? No, I don't. ) On the basis of Articles 157, paragraphs 6 and 161 of Article 1(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been submitted to Article 13 of the amendment by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27870	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27871	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The 13th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic submitted to the 17th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) Olgica Batic, a national MP, submitted to the 18th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The 18th Amendment was submitted by MP Vladimir Ilic. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) National MPs Milica Radovic, Marko Milutinovic, Milos Aligrudic, Miroslav Petkovic and Jovan Palalic together submitted to the 19th amendment. The government and the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government have not accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) The amendment was submitted to Article 19 by MP Nenad Konstantinovic. The government has not accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction has not been declared. The Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government did not accept the amendment with the correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (No) On the basis of Articles 157, paragraphs 6 and 161 of Article 1. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Article 20 of the amendment, was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has Minister Selakovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27872	The amendment of the Committee shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-RS_2013-11-19-0.u27873	I find the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have completed the debate on the first four points of the agenda of this session, I remind you of the provision of Article 81. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, according to which the President of the National Assembly may set a vote day on a proposal for individual laws immediately after the finalisation of the draft law. In accordance with this provision, I hereby determine Wednesday, 20 November 2013, starting at 10.00 hours, as the Day of Vote on the first four items of the agenda of this session, i.e.: Proposal for a Law on Courts and Courts and Public Prosecutors, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judges and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Prosecutors. Thank you.
